Document of
The World Bank
FILE         CO                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. p'-2Q64-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
AIRPORTS AND AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR AN
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ADril 29, 1977
This document has a restrieted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
Bolivian Peso ($b)   =     US$0.05
US$1.00              =     20.0 ($b)
1 million ($b)       =     US$50,000
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 kilometer (km)     =     0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)          =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)      =     2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                =     2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIAITIONS AND ACRONYMS
AASANA            Airports and Air Navigation Services Administration
ICAO              International Civil Aviation Organization
LAB               Lloyd Aereo Boliviano
MTCCA             Ministry of Transport, Communication, and
Civil Aviation
UNDP              United Nations Development Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE AIRPORTS AND AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR AN
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Airports and Air Navigation Services Administration (AASANA) with the
guarantee of the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$25 million to
help finance an Aviation Development Project. The loan would have a term of
20 years, including four and one-half years of grace, with interest at 8.2% per
annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMfY 1/
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (1546-BO) dated
March 23, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas
exports, as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of the
poorest countries in South America. The majority of its population is engaged
in traditional agriculture. Only a small part of the labor force is employed
in the modern sectors. The infrastructure is primitive and the road and rail
networks cover only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong tra-
ditional ties within the indigenous communities and geographic, health and
educational obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demographic
concentration on the inhospitable 3-4 thousand meter plateau, the Altiplano.
About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally and econo-
mically isolated subsistence existence in this region, which is rich in
mineral deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
only partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land and eliminating obstacles to social mobility. The
agrarian reform and the nationalization of large mines, however, were followed
by falling production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its
pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased
steadily at an average annual zate of around 5%, providing for per capita
income increases averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had
1/   This section is reprinted from the President's Report on the First
Education and Vocational Training Project for Bolivia (No. P-202P-RO),
dated March 31, 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



-2-
fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970
and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth
was again lost in 1969/71, when political instability led to declining private
investment and deteriorating public finances. The deterioration of public
finances reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's public
sector is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of
livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment
opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public employment
proved difficult to resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined
with a weak tax system, have limited the resources available for public invest-
ment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate
savings limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, President Banzer faced the need to
provide jobs for the unemployed and to revitalize investment and growth.
Initially, this task was complicated by a sharp deterioration in Bolivia's
terms of trade, which produced a weakening in the balance of payments and a
further deterioration in public finances, eventually resulting in a substantial
devaluation in 1972. However, more rational economic policies were put into
effect and a more favorable climate for private investment was established.
New laws offering guarantees and incentives to private investors, especially
in the hydrocarbon field, were promulgated and claims pending from earlier
nationalizations were settled. The Government also improved public adminis-
tration and the pricing policies of some public undertakings. These policies
were successful in increasing private investment and in bolstering the rate of
growth.
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
6.        Bolivia's economic performance has continued to be strongly in-
fluenced by movements in its terms of trade, which have been particularly
volatile in recent years. The sharp increases in petroleum and mineral
prices in 1974 resulted in a major terms of trade gain, which led to a dra-
matic reversal in the balance of payments and increase in foreign exchange
reserves. While GDP increased by about 5%, improvements in the terms of trade
helped raise gross domestic income by more than 20%, permitting a substantial
increase in both consumption and investment. Moreover, this was accomplished
within the context of an unprecedented improvement in public finances. After
current deficits in 1970-73, the Central Government achieved savings equivalent
to one-third of its capital expenditure. For the public sector as a whole,
savings in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of capital expendi-
ture. On the balance-of-payments side, a near doubling of exports permitted a
trade surplus which exceeded US$160 million despite a rapid increase in imports.
The current account showed a surplus for the first time in decades and net
capital inflows approached US$90 million, nearly four times their 1973 level,
as a result of substantially higher loan disbursements to the public sector
and increased foreign investment associated with hydrocarbon exploration.
As a result, foreign exchange reserves rose by a record US$124 million.
7.        The extreme dependence of the Bolivian economy on its foreign sector
was once more brought into focus in 1975 and early 1976 as, with world eco-
nomic recession, the country's terms of trade deteriorated and export volumes



- 3 -
declined. Mineral exports fell by well over 20% as the weighted average of
mineral prices declined by approximately 13%, and shipments of most minerals
fell as a direct result of the recession and the unloading of speculative
stock on international markets. The situation was exacerbated by the fact
that exportable surpluses of crude petroleum were significantly reduced for
the second year in a row due to falling production and rapidly rising domestic
consumption of hydrocarbon derivatives. While the export picture was helped
by a significant price increase for natural gas exports to Argentina, this
could not compensate for the overall decline in export earnings. On the
whole, merchandise exports in 1975 declined by 16%. On the other hand, growth
of GDP and investment continued unabated as imports rose by about 36% in the
wake of the start-up of new public investment projects and the liberalization
of imports for consumer durables and motor cars earlier in the year. As a
result, the balance-of-payments current account shifted from a surplus of
US$150 million in 1974 to a deficit of US$190 million in 1975. Despite
further substantial increases in disbursements of medium-term loans to the
public sector, net foreign exchange reserves fell by US$54 million to US$134
million, or about 2.5 months of imports. The weakening of the balance of
payments was accompanied by a deterioration of the fiscal situation. The
Central Government's current surplus decreased to just about 1.'7% of GDP,
after reaching 2.6% in 1974, and increased borrowing from external resources
and the domestic banking system was necessary to finance growing public invest-
ment. However, some public utilities strengthened their financial situation
due to increased rates.
8.        The authorities, reacting to the weakening of the external accounts,
took action late in 1975 to tighten trade restrictions. This resulted in a
significant reduction of import growth to only 2.0% during 1976. This, toge-
ther with a recovery in mineral prices and overall merchandise exports, helped
reduce the current account deficit by about US$50 million. At the same time,
Bolivia continued to attract substantial external capital inflows which
enabled it to finance the current account deficit and recoup the foreign
exchange reserves lost the preceding year. Conservative incomes policies
applied since 1974 have resulted in a reduction of inflation to an annual
rate of about 14%.
9.        Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend
on the Government's ability to increase savings and stimulate investments
particularly those for developing hydrocarbon, mineral and agricultural
resources. Investment in mining and hydrocarbons is accelerating. Inten-
sified exploration for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company and
private foreign companies is underway and may lead to significantly increased
production and exports of crude petroleum and natural gas, which could permit
an acceleration of economic growth towards the end of the decade. Recent
exploration results have been fairly positive, i.e. a new oil field with
immediate commercial potential was discovered at Montecristo near Santa Cruz
and a private foreign concern made a gas strike in the Abapo-Izozog region in
the southeast of the country. Fiscal performance has remained weak during
the last two years, with the Central Government performance being adversely



-4-
affected by the deficits of decentralized agencies and state-owned enterprises.
However, the authorities are beginning to implement mining and income tax
reforms so as to improve the yields, efficiency and equity of the tax system.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
10.       Bolivia's external debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of 1976
amounted to US$1.0 billion. Service on external debt amounted to 18.8% of
exports of goods and non-factor services net of investment income abroad.
Average terms of external debt have worsened as 46% of the newly contracted
public debt over the last two years has been from commercial banks.    Between
1971 and 1976, average maturity has declined from 24 years to 14 years while
the average interest rate has increased from about 4.4% to 7% and the grant
element has fallen from 36% to 17%.   Because of the heavy investment require-
ments associated with development of the mining and hydrocarbon sectors and
the large import content of these investments, Bolivia's trade gap and current
account deficit can be expected to rise for the remainder of this decade.
As a consequence, the debt service ratio is expected to increase to about 24%
by 1980. However, as investments in these sectors come to fruition, exports
will accelerate and import requirements of investment will decline. A gradual
fall in the debt service ratio is therefore likely in the 1980s. In view of
the nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt, prudence in selecting and
utilizing external capital will have to be an essential element of debt
management.
11.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons, which has to be developed to sustain rapid economic growth
and, in particular, to achieve a rapid expansion of export earnings in the
foreseeable future. If production in the export sectors, particularly mining
and hydrocarbons, can be increased and prices for major export products remain
adequate, Bolivia can be considered creditworthy for moderate amounts of
external lending on conventional terms. Nevertheless, some additional lending
on soft terms (available from the Inter-American Development Bank's Fund for
Special Operations and the USAID) is justified by Bolivia's poverty and its
large and continuing external capital requirements. The country will require
substantial external financing of investment to supplement the domestic
savings effort at least until the early 1980s. The Government, in pursuing
its progressive development policies, is making a serious effort to mobilize
domestic resources and has prepared its first five-year economic plan. Imple-
mentation of the underlying investment program will require external assis-
tance for high priority projects in excess of the foreign exchange component.
Although substantially increased suppliers' and financial credits will prob-
ably become available, prudent debt management requires that they should cover
not more than about a third of the public capital inflows needed during
1977-80 for meeting a GDP growth target of 6% annually. The remainder
should be obtained on softer terms from bilateral and international develop-
ment financing agencies, including the Bank.



- 5 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
12.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtain any Bank Group funds until 1964. Bolivia's tight budget constraints
and restricted capacity to service external debt had limited Bank Group
assistance until recently. Apart from a US$23.3 million Bank loan for a gas
pipeline, Bank Group operations until FY75 were exclusively through IDA.
Following Bolivia's emergence as a natural gas and petroleum exporter, albeit
on a limited scale, IDA's lending was phased out with the Agricultural Credit
I Project in June, 1975. By February 28, 1977, the Bank Group had approved
18 operations for Bolivia amounting to US$184.9 million, of which eight
have been fully disbursed. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's debt to the
Bank and IDA in 1975/76 represented 7.9% of its public debt. The Bank's share
of the service on this debt is about 4%. Both figures are expected to increase
marginally by 1980.
13.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
various sectors. US$27.2 million have been for agriculture where our lending
has helped the Government to initiate long term progress for the development
of a viable livestock industry, to increase agricultural production and to
improve living conditions on the Altiplano, as well as to strengthen the Banco
Agricola as a development institution. The five loans for power projects,
totalling US$53.4 million, have been instrumental in modernizing the sector,
expanding electricity services, stabilizing the electricity supply and setting
up a regulatory agency. Also, a public power company was set up which has
been operated in an efficient and financially sound manner. Two railway loans
totalling US$40.0 million, of which US$3.3 million were cancelled when ENFE
obtained funds from bilateral sources to purchase locomotives, have helped to
improve the quality of management, efficiency of operations and financial
condition of the national railways. Three operations, for a total of US$28.2
million, for medium- and small-size mining aim at increased production and
improved sectoral coordination. A loan for a water supply and sewerage
project of US$11.5 million is expected to improve services in the main mining
cities and 70 rural communities. A recently approved loan of US$15 million
for an education and vocational training project would assist Bolivia to
develop its human resources in a more effective and rational way. Finally,
the proposed project and a third railway project, also being considered
by the Executive Directors, will assist Bolivia's efforts to develop agri-
culture in hitherto isolated areas and to provide efficient freight and
passenger transportation.
14.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a
firm producing cables' and plastic products. With expanding opportunities
for private investment, however, IFC has most recently agreed to take an
equity participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A. (BISA) in
conjunction with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same institution to
assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises, and
US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nlacional to assist in the development of



-6-
mortgage banking. The two IFC investments aim at cohnributing to the esta-
blishmeht of a local market for long-term secUrities.   Annex II contains a
summary statement of the status of Bank Group operations in Bolivia as of
March 31, 1977, and notes on the status of ongoing projects.
15.       Remarkable progress has been made in achieving the goals set for
Bank lending to Bolivia. On the macro-economic level, the Government has made
important strides towards formulating a coherent and consistent set of overall
economic policies. On the sector and project level, public services have been
improved and the institutions strengthened. The financial positions of the
railroads and power sectors compare favorably with that of similar entities
in other developing countries. Also, during the last two years, the Govern-
ment has established an excellent record in providing the required counterpart
funds for Bank financed projects. Future Bank lending will continue to support
Government efforts to establish infrastructure necessary for sustained economic
development while simultaneously improving the distribution of the benefits of
economic growth. In this context, Bank activities will focus on the less
developed regions and the lower income strata of the population. At present
two projects are at an advanced stage of processing: an urban project to
finance urban upgrading, sites and services, employment generation schemes and
supporting social infrastructure; and an agricultural project for the develop-
ment of alpaca/llama husbandry to assist subsistence farmers in the Altiplano
and improve their living standards. For the more distant future, further Bank
projects in irrigation, agroindustries, highway maintenance, railways, electric
energy, forestry, industry and mining are under consideration.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
16.       Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million km2, which can be roughly divided
into the barren highlands "Altiplano" in the western part of the country,
where most of the country's population lives, the central valleys in the mid-
west, and the sparsely populated lowlands to the east and north. High trans-
port infrastructure costs, caused by difficult topography, and sparse popu-
lation distribution, make it necessary to use special care in determining the
most appropriate modes of transportation and in selecting investment projects.
Transport Modes
17.       Bolivia's transportation infrastructure is relatively underdeveloped,
the major transport modes by and large have played complementary roles to meet
particular requirements: railroads, to haul most of Bolivia's export trade
consisting of bulky mineral products; domestic aviation, to transport passen-
gers and perishable goods, in particular, beef; highways, to carry mostly
domestic freight and passengers; and waterways, to provide access to otherwise



- 7 -
isolated towns and villages. Because of the difficult topography of Bolivia,
the dispersal of the population in widely scattered small towns and the high
cost of developing ground transportation, aviation plays a much more important
role in meeting the transport needs of the country than in many other countries
at a similar stage of development. For example, the domestic air passenger
traffic was 463,200 passengers in 1975, compared with the railway traffic of
832,000 passengers for the Western System and 317,000 for the Eastern System.
The main features of the transport modes are as follows.
18.       Railways.   The railways are owned by the Government and consist of
3,400 km of meter-gauge single track lines. The most important route in terms
of external trade is the line connecting the mining areas and the city of La
Paz with the Chilean ports of Arica and Antofagasta. This western network is
not directly connected to the eastern network which links Santa Cruz with the
Argentine and Brazilian railway networks, the only connection being through
Argentina. Although less important than the Western network in terms of
traffic, the lines between Santa Cruz and Brazil and Santa Cruz and Argentina
are vital because these are the only surface mode of transport and the natural
trade routes for this rapidly growing part of the country.
19.       Highways.   The present road system consists of about 37,600 km of
highways of which 1,170 km (3%) are paved; 6,560 km (17%) are gravel and the
remainder, 29,830 km (80%), are unimproved earth roads. The most important
part of the network is located in the western and southern highlands and
valleys, which occupy one-third of the country and are inhabited by 84% of
the population. In contrast, the lowlands of the northern and eastern regions
are serviced only by a few low standard roads.
20.       Waterways.   The river transport system is made up of an extensive
network of inland waterways located in the eastern and northern parts of
Bolivia, measuring about 1,600 km. Minimum channel depths vary from 1.0 to
3.5 m, with seasonal variations of up to 9.0 m. The system consists of five
main waterways and represents the only available transport mode in vast areas
of the sparsely populated northeastern part of the country. Lake transport is
limited to Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable lake in the world, which
provides an alternative transport corridor to the Pacific Ocean through the
Peruvian lake port of Puno, and from there by rail and road to the seaports of
Matarani and Mollendo. In terms of ton-km of freight traffic, lake traffic is
more important than river traffic.
21.       Pipelines.   The state oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines
and 754 km of gas pipelines. The oil pipelines allow access from the major
production fields near Santa Cruz to the Pacific seaport of Arica and to the
Argentine border. The Bank-financed natural gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO)
conveys gas to Argentina. Depending on the success of intensive exploration
efforts now under way and the confirmation of identified reserves, significant
new pipeline construction, especially to Brazil, may be undertaken.



- 8-
Transport Planning and Coordination
22.       Transport planning and coordination in Bolivia have historically
been weak. In recognition of this deficiency and the substantial invest-
ments required to upgrade the transport system in line with Bolivia's economic
development, a National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP with
the Bank acting as Executing Agency, was completed in 1969. It proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years and
among other things recommended the creation of a Directorate of Planning and
Coordination which is now in the Ministry of Transportation, Communication and
Civil Aviation (MTCCA). In 1972, the Bank assisted in the preparation of
terms of reference for a UNDP-financed technical assistance program to streng-
then the Directorate. The program was cancelled in 1976, after partial imple-
mentation, due to lack of UNDP funds. In order to obtain better information
on transport facilities and equipment, the Government decided to update the
National Transport Survey and has requested financial and technical support
from the Bank. The financing for the foreign exchange cost of consultant
services for this purpose is included in the proposed loan for the Third
Railway Project.
23.       The Government's main transport strategy underlying its five-year
(1976-1980) development plan are as follows: continued rehabilitation and
modernization of the railway system; improvement and expansion of the road
network to serve high priority sectors in the economy; modernization of air
transport through improvement and re-equipment of infrastructure, parti-
cularly in the north and northeast; and, expansion of the river and lake
fleet, and the improvement of river navigation and port facilities on Lake
Titicaca. The five-year development plan calls for investments totalling
US$475 million in projects already started and consists of US$266 million for
highways, US$107 million for railways and US$102 million for aviation. The
foreign exchange component is estimated to be about 62% of the total cost.
Additional projects with a total cost of US$439 million are under study. A
separate plan is being prepared by the Ministry of Mines and Metallurgy for
the development of pipelines for the transport of natural gas and petroleum.
The Government is currently reviewing these and other plans to ensure that
they are within its financial capabilities and implementing capacity.
Aviation Subsector
24.       The critical importance of air transport for Bolivia's development
derives mainly from the difficult topography of the country. Most of the
population lives on the barren Altiplano at altitudes above 3,000 meters and
is separated by high mountain ranges from the sparsely populated lowlands
which cover about two-thirds of the country. The Government is determined
to develop the lowlands in order to realize their rich agricultural potential
and to relieve the population pressure in the Altiplano. Construction of a
highway from La Paz to the northeastern plains in the Department of Beni has



-9-
started but it will be many years before this road will be fully developed.
In the meantime, the primary transport modes for linking the lowlands con-
tinue to be river transport for bulk goods and aviation for people and high
value goods. The difficulties in opening up the potentially rich areas
of the country and the increase in the demand for air transport in general
because of the recent acceleration of economic development, have brought into
sharp focus the deficiencies in the existing aviation infrastructure.
25.       Except for a few modern jet aircraft operated by Lloyd Aereo
Boliviano (LAB), an almost totally government-owned airline, and the instal-
lations of three international airports, the communications equipment, navi-
gational aids, airfields and aircraft for civil aviation in Bolivia date from
the 1940's. Consequently, the subsector is afflicted with numerous problems
which accompany nearly obsolete equipment and facilities. The electronic
equipment has become unreliable, difficult to operate and costly to maintain.
Operating costs of the older aircraft have gone up, while spare parts are
becoming difficult, if not impossible, to obtain. Ground facilities in
general have become dilapidated but have received very limited maintenance or
improvement. Consequently, the system has been plagued with many accidents,
both reported and unreported.
26.       There are approximately 300 airports in the country, but only 30
airports, managed by AASANA, serve the scheduled domestic cargo and passenger
flights provided by LAB. Airports at the four major cities--La Paz, Cochabamba,
Santa Cruz and Trinidad--account for more than 80% of regular passengers and
70% of cargo traffic. These four airports, with some weight restrictions, are
used by jet aircraft such as the Boeing 727. Virtually all other airports are
in poor condition and can accept only small propeller-driven aircraft. During
the wet season, several of these airports are closed for considerable periods
due to flooding and other hazardous conditions.
27.       Unscheduled cargo service is provided by several private operators,
who are normally engaged in the transport of meat from the Department of Beni
to La Paz and other cities in the Altiplano. They are owned by meat whole-
salers, cattle owners' associations, and slaughterhouses and operate under
difficult circumstances. Due to low capital investment by the owners, almost
all of about 50 aircraft in use are more than 20 years old. The most typical
type is the C-46, which can carry 5 to 6 tons of cargo on short flights but
which is dangerous to fly over high mountains en route to La Paz. About 250
small aircraft are operated by air taxi companies and individuals and, although
the number of passengers and cargo transported is small, these aircraft provide
vital services to large areas of the country which lack all-weather roads.
A comparison of traffic of the various types of carriers is as follows:



- io -
Traffic by Carrier Type in .197.5
PAssengers    Cargo (tons.)
tAB                                        396,00        4,300
Ait Taxi Opetatbrs                          30i000        1,600
Trans~portes Atereos 9ilit&k&9              16i5bO          200
d6Vernmeht Oil Cbi*ahy                       11700           -
Non-Scheduied dargb Airlines                 9,000       32i000
463,200       38,lOO
28.       Demand for air transpott   has increased rapidly in the recent past.
The number of passengers using LAB's scheduled domestic flights increased at a
rate of 14.5% per year during the past five years, and this was made possible
by the introduction by LAB of mioderin jet airctaft with higher passenger capac-
ities.  The volume of unscheduled domestic air cargo, on the other hand, did
not increast appreciabiy during the same period due to severe aircraft limita-
tions and the continued vulnerability of many airports to poor weather condi-
tions as discussed above.
29.       Because of a recent serious aircraft accident at Santa Cruz, public
pressure has been mounting to construct a new airport at a site some 15 km
north of the city. However, there are doubts about its economic justification
because of the recent completion of a new terminal building at the existing
airpott, and also because of the high estimated cost of the new airport. Since
no decision has been taken yet, the cost of the new airport has not been
included in the financial projections for AASANA. The Government has agreed
that if the airport were constructed, AASANA would be the operator only, and
not the owner, until it can be assured that the transfer of the assets of the
new airport to AASANA will not prevent the latter from achieving its financial
goals (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Aviation Organization
30.       Overall control of civil aviation is exercised by MTCCA, in consul-
tation with the National Aviation Council which consists of the Commander of
the Bolivian Air Force, the Minister of Foreign Relations and the Minister of
Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation. The Council, with the support
of the staff of MTCCA, has the power to approve the establishment of new
national airlines and operations, establish the level and structure of
national passenger and freight tariffs, enter into agreements with interna-
tional carriers and set conditions under which airlines operate in Bolivia.
AASANA, which is under the authority of MTCCA, plans, constructs and operates
airports and air navigation facilities. LAB and various non-scheduled air-
lines are the principal users of these facilities. A total of about 2,000
people are employed in the aviation subsector, not counting those in associated
activities such as customs, air cargo handling, and catering. AASANA has
about 550 employees, compared with 750 for LAB. The remaining personnel are



in MTCCA and several small charter airlines. The Bolivian Air Force, through
Transportes Aereos Militares, has long been engaged in civil air transport
and, although its civil activities have been curtailed, it continues to
provide air service on some of the unprofitable, low-density routes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
31.       The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited Bolivia
in November 1976. A report entitled "Appraisal of an Aviation Development
Project," No. 1458b-BO dated April 28, 1977 is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. A loan and project summary is presented in
Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington on March 30 and 31, 1977.
The Government was represented by Mr. Fernando Anker, Ministry of Finance,
and the AASANA delegation was headed by My. DIM. Aroldo Cortez, Executive
Director, AASANA.
Project Description
32.       The project would consist of:
(a) the construction of two new domestic airports (Riberalta and
San Borja) and major improvements at two others (Santa Ana
and Tarija);
(b) the design and supervision of construction in (a);
(c) the provision of navigation aids and communications equipment
at the project airports and various other airports;
(d) the provision of maintenance equipment for AASANA, including
runway maintenance equipment for Santa Ana airport;
(e) the provision of technical assistance and staff training for
AASANA; and
(f) the provision of final design for the construction of a new
runway, apron and taxiways for Cochabamba airport.
33.       At the completion of the project, medium-size jet aircraft will be
able to use Riberalta and Tarija airports. San Borja and Santa Ana airports
will be able to serve turbo-prop passenger and cargo aircraft. All four air-
ports will have all-weather capabilities. The navigational aids, communica-
tions equipment and the general maintenance equipment will greatly increase
safety and reliability of not only the four project airports, but a number of
key airports throughout the country. The communications equipment, in parti-
cular, will enable safe and efficient use of aircraft through quick trans-
mittal of weather and airport conditions at each airport. The design work
for Cochabamba airport, the home airport for LAB with relatively high flight



- 12 -
densities, will facilitate the timely relocation of the main runway. The
existing runway has hills in the flight path which are not only hazardous but
also impose weight restrictions on the jet aircraft flown by LAB. The reloca-
tion of the runway will also make it possible to reroute the flight paths,
from urban to agricultural areas, and thereby reduce hazards and noise to
the population of the city.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
34.       The total project cost, including contingencies, in prices expected
at the end of June 1977, is estimated to be US$39.5 million. The foreign
exchange component is US$23.7 million, or 60% of total project cost. Physical
contingencies of 10% and price contingencies of an average of 7.7% per annum
have been included in the cost estimate. The project would be financed by the
proposed Bank loan of US$25 million and a Government equity contribution of
US$14.5 million. The Bank loan would finance the foreign exchange cost of the
project; in addition, as a consequence of giving equal treatment to foreign
and local consultants, it would cover US$1.3 million of the local cost of
engineering and supervision provided by local consultants.
The Borrower
35.       AASANA was established in 1968 as an autonomous Government entity
to administer, plan, maintain, operate and improve the national network of
airports and to provide air navigation services. AASANA has operational
autonomy for its administrative functions, and obtains technical guidance from
the National Aviation Council.   The major portion of AASANA's assets consist
of relatively old equipment. A high percentage of AASANA's assets at small
airports have been in service beyond what is normally considered to be the
economic life for such items and they need to be replaced in the immediate
future.
36.       As a result of extensive reorganization in 1975, AASANA has a good
management structure headed by a competent Executive Director and a team of
qualified top level technical staff. However, in spite of significant recent
salary increases and improved administrative procedures established since
1975, AASANA suffers from limitations in staff capabilities. Some essential
technical training has been provided by the International Civil Aviation
Organization (ICAO), and further assistance to bolster management experience
would be provided by foreign specialists under the proposed project. In
addition, salaries for technical specialists would be adjusted as necessary
to enable AASANA to recruit and retain needed personnel (Section 4.05 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
37.       AASAIA's accounting system currently provides information on revenues
and expenses on a system-wide basis. It needs to be redesigned to supply infor-
mation in such detail as necessary to enable a proper review of the structure
and level of user charges and to provide for the proper valuation and disposal
of assets. AASANA is aware of these deficiencies and intends to engage one of
the foreign experts (para 41) as the Accounts Division Chief.



- 13 -
38.       The accounts of AASANA are currently subject to review by the
Government at irregular intervals. AASANA agreed that, beginning with 1978,
certified copies of the audited annual accounts would be furnished to the
Bank, not later than four months after the end of each calendar year. Audit-
ing would be carried out by an independent auditor satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Government policy had been-to maintain AASANA's user charges at a
low level in order to assist aviation development. In 1975, landing fees were
increased by 60% for LAB and for the foreign carriers, mainly to enable a
salary increase of 60% for AASANA personnel to compensate for the cumulative
effect of inflation and, in accordance with reorganization efforts, to maintain
qualified personnel. AASANA still operates on a breakeven basis and its current
user charges will not be sufficient to cover the operating expenses for the
project period (1977-1981). AASANA would consult from time to time with the
Bank on the structure and level of user charges (Section 5.04(a) of the draft
Loan Agreement). It would take all necessary actions to attain an overall
working ratio of not more than 75% in 1978 and 60% in 1979-82; a return on net
fixed assets of not less than 2% in 1983-84 and not less than 4% by 1985.
Because of the heavy investments planned and the time needed for traffic to
build up, the project airports would not be able to attain the financial
targets set for AASANA's overall operations.   However, it has been agreed that
the combined working ratio for the project airports would not be more than 85%
by 1985 (Section 5.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
40.       The projected cash flow for AASANA provides only for the replacement
of assets and for other investments required for efficient operation. AASANA
would consult with the Bank before undertaking any expansion or improvement,
other than the Project, of over US$1.0 million at any one site in any one year
(Section 5.05 of the draft Loan Agreement). The current receivables and
payables of AASANA are high. AASANA would ensure that, in the future, receiv-
ables from operating revenues will be collected and payables for working
expenses will be paid, within 90 days (Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
Project Execution
41.       The project would be executed by AASANA who will engage both local
and foreign contractors. The contract for the drainage of the runway at Tarija
has been awarded, while the contract for the paving of this runway will be
awarded shortly. The civil works contracts for Riberalta and San Borja are
expected to be awarded by December 1977, with Santa Ana to follow in June
1978. Construction is expected to take about one year at Tarija and up to
two-and-a-half years at the other three airports. Work at Tarija is expected
to be completed by April 1978, followed by Riberalta and San Borja by July
1980 and Santa Ana by January 1981. Part of the communication equipment and
navigational aids would be installed by AASANA and the remainder, by the equip-
ment manufacturers. In order to strengthen AASANA's capacity to implement the
project, technical assistance will be provided as part of the proposed project
and agreement has been reached on job descriptions for a five-man team of



- 14 -
specialists. A training program for its technical staff would be prepared by
AASANA to begin not later than October 1978 and to last for a period of three
years (Section 4.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       The contract for the drainage of the runway at Tarija is an addition
to the contract for ongoing civil works which was awarded in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. The contract for the paving of this runway would be awarded
shortly, also in accordance with Bank Guidelines. An engineering contract
(about 40 man-years at US$50,000 per man-year) for the final design and
supervision of the construction of the four project airports has been awarded
to local engineers. Retroactive financing, for expenditures incurred after
January 1, 1977, of up to US$1.0 million for civil works at Tarija and up to
US$0.7 million for engineering services for the four project airports are
included in the proposed loan (Schedule 1, paragraph 4 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
43.       Contracts for civil works at the other airports, and visual aids,
navigational aids and communication equipment and installation would be
awarded under international competitive bidding after a prequalification
screening of interested contractors both local and foreign. No local firms
are expected to tender for equipment. A negotiated contract for 25 man-years,
at an estimated cost of US$50,000 per man-year, would be arranged by AASANA
for the five-man technical assistance team. Training would be arranged
individually through UNDP/ICAO or technical training schools at a cost not
exceeding approximately US$6,000 per man-year.
44.       Disbursements would be made against appropriate documentation for
100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and its installation; 100% of
foreign expenditures for technical assistance and training; 56% of total
expenditures, which is the estimated foreign exchange component, for civil
works; and 70% of total expenditures for engineering services.
Project Benefits and Risks
45.       The proposed project would serve about 50,000 people in the Depart-
ment of Beni and about the same number in the Department of Tarija in the
south, who have not been able to develop the rich agricultural potential of
these areas because of their isolation from the rest of Bolivia. The country
as a whole would gain from a more rapid and reliable transport of beef from
the livestock centers of Santa Ana and San Borja, rubber and nuts from Riberalta
and grains, vegetables and grapes from the area around Tarija. Of the four
towns, only Tarija is connected by road to other parts of Bolivia. A road is
now under construction from La Paz to San Borja but it will not be usable
during the wet season. The road is not expected to be upgraded to all-weather
standards in the near future due to the high cost.



- 15 -
46.       The passenger traffic forecasts for the project airports take into
consideration the general traffic trend, based on such factors as future popu-
lation and income growth and the additional traffic due to service improve-
ments at each project airport. While the actual average growth rate has been
about 15% per year, the forecast tapers this rate to about 6% between 1985 and
1990. Cargo traffic is of comparatively minor importance on a system-wide
basis. However, it constitutes a significant portion of traffic at three of
the project airports (Riberalta, Santa Ana, and San Borja). The forecast
cargo growth for the three project airports is 14% through 1980, with the rate
gradually declining to 8% between 1985 and 1990.
47.       The main economic benefits for the project derive from increased
capacity and improved efficiency compared to the existing air services, i.e.,
introduction of better aircraft, already available in Bolivia, at lower oper-
ating costs, for service to the project airports, and to a lesser extent on
savings accruing to aircraft operators from reduced aircraft delays. Neither
passenger time savings nor reduction in cargo spoilage have been included in
the benefit analysis. Also excluded were important but nonquantified benefits
such as reduction in accidents and the effects of better regional linkage.
48.       Transport cost savings were calculated per passenger or per ton of
cargo based on the unit cost differential between the use of better aircraft
and aircraft currently used. It is expected that the existing piston engine
aircraft will be replaced by small jet or turbo-prop aircraft for passengers
and turbo-prop aircraft for cargo. Improvements in the aeronautical communi-
cations network and air navigational aids and runway maintenance would signif-
icantly reduce the current delays and cancellations of flights due to bad
weather. This type of savings has been quantified only for LAB scheduled
flights and thus underestimates similar benefits for non-scheduled flights
in Beni.
49.       The economic return of the project as a whole is calculated to be
19%. The economic rate of return for the project airports varies from 24% for
the investments at San Borja and Riberalta, which represent 46% of the total
project cost, to 12% for the investments at Santa Ana, which represent 17% of
the total project cost. Higher than anticipated cost increases are considered
the most significant risk but even if costs increased by 15%, the overall rate
of return would still be 17%. The effect of road improvements to San Borja
has been tested under various assumptions. The most extreme assumption of no
air cargo at all after 1985 still gives an economic rate of return of 14% at
this airport. Another risk is a possible delay in the implementation of the
project. Although present technical capabilities of AASANA are weak, we are
confident that with the technical assistance to be provided (para 41), AASANA
would be able to execute the project satisfactorily. The project is not
expected to have any adverse environmental effects.



- 16 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
50.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and AASANA, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and the Bank and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Features of the
draft Loan and Guarantee Agreements of special interest are referred to in
paragraphs 29, 36, 38, 39, 40, 41, and 42 of this report.
51.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
52.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 29, 1977



*                                                                                                                                                             P
*                                                                                                                                                             0
*0 P
OP -t P
o  2) 4                                                .-44                                                                                                        P
p. tP CI C1CdI.OLEI 5151 P
a  o P                       NJ                ',Z'-JNJ"J'J          -so
-  o pa        ..p  on    op--.oe     04- liP   00-   CO       .     000                             000     000    -       00  0   0.             4        OCOiP 0
it)          P                                                       .4      4..        .4..         . .                   4                 4      .  4  .   .     . .. -P
PIP 00 04 aPe N IPSO N UP-p-P 0.4 OUPtNP 000 ONO P-OP N a 04-00 p
..    ....oo          n    ..n                  a.                              tUe...  eON            op-s -  -                       tiP-..-.
* 0                                                            4P                              004                                                    -  4   P
*                                                              4                                .-44-h                                                        p
*                                                                                                                                                             0
jij         C P                                                                                                                                                             P
*  P                                                                                                                                                            P
O              in 00      0-.400                                     000                                     000 0          00 0 0.                         
P-0  0    0.04  00     P4-                 0000                00
1a1 Cpa        N    NO    -'.0  GriP  N4-- N    CON          0       0UP        CONO                 0  0    Stin  0        00  N   C
Li = PG             NO    0    4           p-p  40                   0.0        NO                   0  C    0 ON  -        C-  -   -                       piP N  P
Z    ON                                                              4                               .0 0                                                      -   p
Phi                                                                                                  in                                                            p
0                                                                                                                                                                  p
C.- Phi  P                                                                                                                                                            p
hiPh     P                                                                                                                                                            P
hiPhi    0                                                                                                         .4               NJ                                 0
100    2P                                                                                                                                                             P
O P    0 PC       0    00     4C .0W     0    pIP  000   040            00                       -      000     000    4       00   0  00             4        000 - P
*    op                                                                -*                      *-                                             .  .  .   .
OP     040        .0   40    Np-P -N     Nt   0    p-lOin  0            ON                              000     SOp-P          CiG  4  NO                      .00.   P
00     hi 40           ..44   40  4           it   00                   04                              p-tOO   WON            0    -  0.4                     p-P 0  P
40     ION                                                              4                               00.0                                                       N  0
OP     OP                                                               N                               040                                                           p
*    LiP                                                                                              N                                                             0
OP       P                                                                                                                                                            p
& P                                                                                                                                                                   p
00                                                                                                                                                                    0
P-P P
OP p
0 P P
t,0      0                                                                                                                                                            0
o       *
.rc    -  P                                                                                                -V1    p-PCI         ii.ihii.iP  I                          p
00S    20*                                           CLOLCI C             SI                              -4    -----.I       -l----I  -I
* 00. P                                          %4%4%I                                                                                                             0
ti..J P LiO PC      0    00    P.O -Opt   .0-. o          40             000                     . 4     .0 *    00     *      00   0  0               4  .      . *a. P
.54 P Wi-P 4                                                      4-                                                                             4      -  4
So.. S C4 PC        0    Pitt  p-pt ON     itO -0   -Op-P  0              00.0                             0      00            p-p.. N  0                          P-C
Ot)*    0.PN              -    4.4  4          4-   40                  000                               0     p.o            p-p-p -  -                          p..  p
4--OS  4--0 PtiP                                                                                           p-p                                                      -
a p Co P N a
* 0 P P
OP = P 4
*      0                                                 I                      -2j4j
P.   oP                                                                                                                                                             P
P4-P p-Pc       0    00    4W-COt      ON        001St CC     - -     000        0000           -     000     000   4        00   o  cc       -  .  .  -     eeoc
0> 0-P -.4. .                                                 .4       4..        .4..        .4                                             4 4 4 4          4.44p
P., - P0        4    40.   4C.40N      NO   C)  ..4p-p 0              000        cOop-p               coo     P-ao  0.      ...0  N  p-PC                    CO 000
* ...p  P0             -    44.00          0     40                   00-4       p-pin  -             op-p...-O-.            p-ppp -  .4                     a   a  p
00 P p-p p-P 0.4 N - P
PS     P                                                              N                               P.40                                                          p
*      4                                                                pA                                                                                          P
p      P                                                                                                                                                ,           4
*      P                                                 CI          SkhiISI                                                                    YjYJ-.I            P
*    OP                                                  -P.                                                                                                        P
45     OPO        0    00     CO .p-P *  40   4%   400   CC     - 4     000         44          4 -     0 40    00 - C         00   0  0 -      - 0  0   0     0000 P
p-pp 044 4.. . -.4                                                                  .4.. 4.                                                     4 4 . - 4.44P
OP     ...PO      -    p-ip-p  ON  N     Np-p 0    NO    0              00.4                            0  0    0-PIP  -       -. a   o             o   a     .pp-'c-p
.40      iN              -    ON 4            N    00                   00-P                            0 4     C 4-S-.0                         C N          0. - P
-..AP 0-
OS
OP                                                                                                                                                                    P Pc
0       P0                                                                                                                                    PC
2    -  fliP                          in         -                       0             in hi                                          .4     Phi
OP        -    >.OC            .'               2)         0"      P              0        Z     0  0                                           a-.    po
00.4     ..i   4C'P            .4                0.'    **P4-iiJ  0          i-POW        0     0- .4                                          fli-.  P
4.02            45-            0                 72      0  Li     00000      i-SOW        50    2  2) 4           0                            SOft   P2
- P0      4      .NX    i*P    -                 i-ia)   OhiO        0000     rOWE         tO    hi ft  P          hiin           -               50   PC
0p       o    n in.-.p..i.,o  0            C.     S     000       0.4.4.4.4  0020         hit   1.'   .      Ci   0.4           2)     Ct      2) Liin P
0P.4      C    00   04-  4-'   -            44   -0      Pp-nC     C*O00     OP-K       25      000               OW          '-.0    442      CP2) Spa
4- P.4   2)    3744i4-4           in        -    Pat.    Z,i-      031 TX     hiPCbt.    4  4    002    op    0-   >0    -      42      -       3000 P2
40-.      i-i-.-tIP     a     -  -         0    0       P.40   I.ii.iWi.iW  PIP  3    44414  0.400  Ci     0     tO   -      00    -.t,      p-roLl Oct
0.-40    .4    %%4      4-     C            ft   .-.O    T0       00005        Ph.-.    074-    2)    43     C    C.4S- -     OP-. i-OW         p-S  P.-.
itO       flb4Pi-70              Li      Ci     -.44   i-i-jO       02)t0   *i40      04-t,PaoOiO              a  2         t4.44           0    tOP-
p -     o.i       - 5-) C    i4000i-44-4               000       OflOCO       P 0.   POp OS  rhiWo          0.     OW  hi    2)    0270       hit 0 hi *0
N       Op   .40 0>4-4      0000            .- C    hi 0.0    .40       0.4     IXTy       OPaCO   7 P5-COp   057    in    2   .4p37.4i-     4-5  404.4Ci44  ShiP-C P2
=  04-4 p-P  OP 0-P-C       0.0.4-OPT          0    4   07    fit     hiC    7 PC          7 POW   op32)r.  0-      2)     hI 020.40.4         P5.4o...40    4-5%   P0
o   . - Op   4-00  .-. *p  -4-.44.4 0.    7  P 000    OW    1       *i     0 p4,hh       04.-p.4  ..pPC7V  444.07  0     T.4fl4.it4.4tt    1040.4    3       4.4t Ph.
OP   P.50   010   000.472)    0     C  i-tO      0  1021      0  0   oP70000       iP  .4 P-P       SOlO    I      .402.4004         04-p-.i-hiO0.   0   30-Phi
flP0p-.  -.  i-P   74    -    000    C     .    040   0-2  741      ow    i-p.-            P50   *-.pCCC  C   4    0.    40000000          0.4  03450      054% 40
0.0       P    PC   0   - 0.23-i-p--C  C    i-014i0244W4-4'4i-        hOp-   2)0  0040    4- POT   tohihihi  2)001   %     CYOPO   22W       a.4W0242        hit4-p3P
3P-     OP   OPO    Ci.Jp  v.-.-too  so     o  0>0-0    za  z   0        .-    oooooo      EPOC    0.5555   O'-'PLi i-'   CO   ZOhiCO         hihi.4 4-4     >0  400
P-P     P P 0 P      04.-tOCO a             .4 2)       OP.  0       tO     044-  0400      P     2)0         i-PP        70>07     Lit     C  0.hi44t      4-0>00
i-P     00   00    70    0.0l.iiCW   2     2) 0.000   0-0  0tP4      000    COO           70>>    20277    00   3   hi      tOpo.4hihi     *jc.   .4.40.   Api 4-  4
P     OP     Pr   rO . otiP    >0   r     p  Lip-rO  7    .400      COla)  0. P00-0.     Opt.      40Cr   0.l.A7t  0.      00    COP.      S  00000     7Ptit4-4P-p
op      0 4 7 P     4-..iPiti-  i-ia)  4   00      ohiLi a.-      4-040>    04P-.OpO0..-0p        OS                  OOOhl-7    4-.      0  4- OW   0 PWWO? P0
hip   4 tiP  COO    5-00  Vhihi7  0. 0.47   a  Oct44) a-      CC   7 P45.0   i-PthWOO      4-POin  700.0.44-  StOP..  0  70007COC)4          OhiO   hO.4  4-.PtO.-.0hi
0040      P   -P.           00000     004      i-i-i-OW>    0.00   iii P  .4 000.04W4fl    2)000   40000    000.0       OPt-TO    04-40      24-phiOCi hi 0.4  7ttp0.
0040    04   i-P .44IPC.42 -p.1. r    i-iP20          CC. .4044.  0 PitS      P P4-4.P0IP  4 P72    P.444  O.4C P =    4- PO.-0000   4- (OPOCOO     4    5 OCI.ii-C PC
40. tOP    OP2)2)bliaii 007440      2)0 CO     COIn    74-400    0-PO OS   hi4h04-40C   4-4P32  302)2)2)   40    i- 4- P2)thi&0.44.4   200 2)4404407Pi-40Li002
o P40   C 4 .4 PC   CCC   i-Lu-hO     04-0  ii 0   -0- 4.40  V42) 0Pi-0t0P4    POYY.4.4    C P00   i-lOSS   005      040*-)C004.-Lii-ZP   .4 *tLi 5044400.  2) P0000 P
2P0.4     P 2)40    0     -           C     it CS      ilLi 4      40047     OP            i-P     4P000    hi      hi CPa      hi 0  Ct 004490   02)     0 00030 Phi
oP     P. P nOn     a                 4     0   0       Ohi 44     & 00.40   4400          PO.     00fl00   0        it   PO    >04       PPC 00EV        OPt 507444)
.40       p op                                                     i-P       70              0     4440                 OP
zip  op                                                    hiP       i-P           OP      =0                   00                =0              LiP       P



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 arnd 1970 and for Most Recen.t Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
-* Peru has been selected as so objective country because of similar natural conditions and comparable huessn and resource endowrsenta.
BOLIVIA    ,1960     /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sod over to total labor force;          lb  1965;     Le  As percentage of labor force in
esploynrnt;     Id   1963.
1970     Is  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;          lb  As a percentage of labor force in emaploynten t;
Ic /   Population;     /d  1964-66;     /n   Between. 1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary education was reduced fras
6 to 4 years. 
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:      /a   1971;    /b  Ratio of populatioyn under 15 and 65 aod over to total labort force;        IC   As percentage of
-           labor force in employment;      /d   includinig maidwives;   Le   1967-71 average;      /f  1972;     I&  Between
1965 and 1970 the duration of general secondary education was reduced Eras 6 to 4 years.
CANEROOIN   1970     Ia  1964-66;     lb  13 years for East Cameroon.
HONDIJRLA.  1970     Ia  Largely due to emigration since 1969 of El Salvadorean resident in Honduras, population growth rate is lower than the
rate of natural increase;       lb  Ratio of population under 15 sod 65 and over to gotal labor force;         Lic  1967-68 population;
Id Registered, not all practicing in the country.
PERU        1970     Ia  Excludes Indian jungle population;       lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force,          Ic   Urban
areas only;     Id   Including evening schools.
R6, March 10. 1977
ORIFINITIONS OP _SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area (thou kas2)                                                                    Pop.ulation per nursing Parses - Populatian divided by number of praccicing
Total -Total sorfacs area rumprising land area and inland waters.                          male and female graduate curses, 1trained' or 'certified"1 nurse,, and
hAeric. -Most reccest estImate at agricultural area used temporarily or prain-             asailiary personnel with training or esperiesc-
nently for crops, pastur-, sarket & kirchen gardens or to. lie fallow.                 Population par hospital bed - Population divided by suber of hospital beds
avatleble In pubelIc sod Private g       anr I d specislled hospital acd
ONP per Capita (01S5 - GNP per capita esti.ates at current -arke t prices,                  rehabilItation centers , e-cldes cursing homes and eetebliaimnente fur
caleeted  y sae conerios me thod as World Batk At1aa (1973-75 basis);                custodial sod prevetive care.
1960; 1970 and 19 75 data.                                                             Par caclta sopply of calories (7 ef requirements) - C-apsted fros energy
equivalent of net fosd supplies available in country per capita per day,
Population and vital statistic                                                             available supplies ossprise domestic production, imports less esports. and
uatise (old-;year mil1ion)    As of July first~ if nor available, average               changes in atoch, sac supplies eaclude   taniml iced, seeds, quan.tities used
of tw  end-yea   estimates; 1-160, 1970 and 1975 data.                                   in food processIng and lase     nt distribution; requiresst. were estisated
by FAO based on physiological needs for co-a ac-tivity and health concd-
Populatio  denesit  P- p   ,usuar is - Mid-year popalatlos Per square kiloneter             eing eeironmeta1 temperature, body weights, age sed sea distribstions of
(10hctares  of total area.                                                            populatios, end allowing 197. for us.er at household leva.1
Population density- per equare an of ogric. lasd - Conputedl as above for                 Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein contest of per capita
agric-ltora1 land only.                                                                  net supply of fend pe   day; net supply of food is defined as shove; require-
meets far all countries setablished by ELbSA Econoic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                            provide far a m.inu  allwosce of 60 grams af total Pe-tein per day, and
Crude birth rate pe   thousasnd. average - Annual lIve births per thosuand of               20 gr ams of animal sand pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal
mid-year population; ten-year arithmsetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,               protein; these. standards are lowr than those of 75 grams~ of total protein
sod fiv-year average ending in 1975 for mast recent estimate.                             and 23 grams of animal protein as as average for the werld, propesed by FAO
Crude death rate per thou ...d. avarsas - Annual deaths per thou.sad of mid-year            in the Third World Pood Survey.
population ; ten-year arithmsetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-             Per capita protein supply feam animal and pulse - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most reset estimate,                                     derived fram animals and pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rate (/thsuS - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age            Death rate (/thoc) ases 1-4 - AnnualI deaths per thuusasd in age group 1-t.
per thousand lIve births.                                                                 years, to children in this age group, .sugested as so indicator of
Life espectancy at birth (ycs) - Aversge number of years of life re,maining at              malnutrition.
birth; usually five-yea -veragas ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
Ing conre.Education
GCross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a wosan will bear             Adlus ted enrollment rsi     rmr    shool - Enrellment    f all ages as per-
in her nomnsl reproductive period if ohs experiences preovot age-specific                 cetg     f  rmrTchnol-sge population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; .usully fiv-y-a averages seding in 1960, 1970 and 1975                   but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing coutries.                                                                  universal education, esrol1oant may exceed 1007. since ae   pupils are below
PPso1ation growt, rate (7.) - total - Comopund ann ual growth rates of mid-year             or above the official school age.
population for 19)0-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                            Adjusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed ash-v; secondary
Population acruth rats (7.5 - urban - Conputed liss growth rats of tarol                    educa.tion requires at least four yerar of approved primary instructio..
population; different definitions of urban aceas nay affect osparability of               provides general, vocational or teacher training instructions for pupils
data among Countries.                                                                     of 12 to 17 years of age; .crrespondence courses are generally es.oIuded.
Urban population (7. of totL1) - Ratio of urban to total population, different            Yeara of schooling provided (first and steod level) - Total years of
definitions of srban areas wy affect conparability, of data among countries,              schooling; at secondary level, voctional instruc tion may be partially or
Completely secluded.
kae structure (pecen.t) - Children (0-14 ynaras , wurking-age (15-64 years) ,             Vocational enrollmet (7. of -ecodary) - Vocatoaiuittions 1isclsde
and retired (65 years nad over) as percentages of oid-yeer papalation,                    tcshoical, indus trial or athar p-roges  which operate ledepe-de-1y or as
Age dependency ratio - aRmti  of population under 15 and 65 sod ove   tc those              departments of secondary institutIons.
of ages IS through 64.                                                                  Adult literacy rate (7) - Literate adults (able to read sod wrIte) as pe-
Eco-oic dopendeccy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                  centage of total adult population aged 15 yersad ovr
the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
Fumily plansnon - acceptors (cumuletive. thou) - Cuonlutivo    une   of accptors          1Ilinsio
of birth-control d-vices under auspices of national fusily planning progran             Persons per roo  (urban) - Average number of persos Per roam in -cupyed
since inception.                                                                          convetional dwellIngs In urban ara,dwelicgs e.colde non-perannt
Family classing - users (. of uscried w-en) - Percestages of narrind women of               strctures and usoucupiod partu.
child-bearing age (15-44 years) woh sue birth-control devices to all narried            Occupied dwellings withoat piped water (7.5 - Occupied conoentiosa1 dwellings
wumen In, ume age group.                                                                  is urban and rural areas with.ut inside or outside piped water facilitIes
as percentage Of all -uopisd dwellings
Employment                                                                                Acces.s to electricity (. of all dwellngs) - Convetional dwelliegs with
Total labor force (thousand) - Ecosamica11y active p-rsonn, including armed                 slectricity in living quertors as per-ent of totl1 d-e11iegs in urb-s and
forces and unemployed but occluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions               rura  areas.
in various countries are sot comparable.                                                Rnrol dwe1iigo connected to electricity (7.5 - Casputed as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture (7.) - Agrlc-Itural labor force (in farming, forestry,           dwellings on1y.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor forco.
Inemploved (7. of labor force)  n- ceployed are usually defined as person   who           Cos-option
are abl.eand willing to tabs    job, out of a Job on a givesn day, remained out         05dm. receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers far radio broadcasts
of a job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period not ec-sdisg one                ts gene ral public per tbhusand of population, esrludes unlicenoed  eoer
week; may not be cam,parable between co...tries due to different definitions              is countries and in years whes regist~ration of radIo sets was in effect,
of unemployed and source of data, e.g., employment office statistics, sample              data for recent yeses may cot be cmparable since most countries abolitshed
surveys, compulsor.y unemplymeot inuane                                                   lcs     ..g
Peassenger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger cars cumprise outer cars seating
tnctu   distribution -   P-rentaga of private incom  (hash in cash and bind)                les  thee sight persons, .   Ioldes ambutl..c... hearses and oil;tsry
rece.ived by richest 17., richest 207., poorest 207., and poorest 407. of honas-          vehIcles.
holds.                                                                                  Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - AnnoaI consaptioo of Industrial.c,avca
public and private electrtsity in kilowatt hours Per capita, generally
Distncibutisn of land ownership - Percentages of land owned by wealthiest 107.              based on production data, without allowance for loos.es in grIds hut alia-
and poorest 107. of land owners.                                                          ig for impacts and ep-rts of el1-tririty.
News print (ks/yr per cap)- Per capita a--1o ncsun_ption in hilogrames
Health and Nutrition                                                                        etimeted ire domestic production plus nor imporis O' newsprint
Population per physician - Population divided by nusber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.



ANNIEX 
Page 3 of 5
BOLIVIA
ECONOMIC DE1V0L00NBT DATA
(Aasnosto in 00$ oille-)
Actual                    P-oisioa ...           et1 P-j-t.d  ,            1969-      1973-      19/6-     1980-
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                              1973           1974          1975           1976           1980           1985           1973      1976       1980       1985           1973      1976       19680      1985
Constant 1974 Prices ino Million iNN                                                Growth note                              An Percent of 00y
Grosa Doorstic Product                        1,606          1,6816         1,787         1,903          2,417          3,265            4.8        5.8       6.2        65.2         116.3     106.0      10.3       15.6
Gains fron   asao     rae(3-2                                                 -87          -167           -132           -173            -          -         -          -            -16.3      -60         5.3        5.
Gross Do-atic Isnoo                           1.381          1,686          1,700         1,796          2,293          3,092            3.1        9.2       43I        6.1          i030O      100.0     100.0      100.0
Ioport, (lad.: I8F1                             487            518           615            600            812            985           15.0      13.8        2.9        3.9           29.5      i3.4       35.4       31.9
Eacoro  mc. 883(IcortCapacIt)          -38            -58           -41-9                         -43            -967           16.4       10.2        5.5       8.9           27.5       28.3       27.5      3.
RB.s..rco Sap                                    27            -68           1.53            91.           182             i8            -          -         -          -              2.0       5.1        79         0.6
Conssinptioo Enpeoditor..                     1,185          1,336         1,474          1,496          1,913          2,461            4.9       8.1        6.3        5.2           85.8      83.3       83.4       P9.6
l1,esto,.ot Expenditur.s (foi.l  utocks)        724            281           382            391            564            649           -4.5      20.4        9,6        2.8           16.2      21.8       24.6       21.0
I,o-oslc Davisgo                                196            350           227            300            382            631           -3.2      152.        6.2       10.6           14.2      16.7       16.6       20.4
National SoOiOgS                                187            331            211           273            320            512           -2.6       13.4       4.1        9.9           13.5      15.2       13.9       16.6
MERCHANDISE TRALDE                                 ~~~~~~~~Anneal late at Correot Prices                                                                               As Percenat of Total Inports
rondo                             ~~~~~         ~~~~~          ~~27.7  40.0  55.1  56.2       93.0          156.0         5.5       26.6      13.4       10.9           11.1       10.4       8.9        8.7
Other Consune Goads                           28.7           33.0          62.0           60.7          111.2          192.5          5.9      28.4       16.3       11.6           11.5      11.2       10.6       10.8
pools                                          1.8            5.0           6.9            7.3           11.7           19.6          4.9      59.5       12.5       10.9           0.7       11 .3       1.1       1.1
Bet Materials A Iot. Condo                    56.3           94.6         163,9          160.4          308.9          562.3         -2.0      41.8       17.8       12.8          22.6       29.7       29.5      31.7
Capital Goods                                 98.8          161.6         190.6          2t6.0          470.8          758.7         -2.0      29.4       21.5      1iO.           40.0       40.0       44.9      42,7
Other Goaoda                                 35.2           36.4           44.5           40.0           51.9          86.5         -4.6        4.4       6.7       11.3           14.1        7.4       9.6        5.0
Total  lrtnhaodise loporto                   249.5         390.0          530.0          548.6        1,047.5        1,778.6         -0.7      29.4       18.0       11.2         100.8      100.0      100.0     100.0
EspOtts                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As percent of Total Exports
ZPPrinary Produnto                            217.3          362.4          308.2          370.8          558.1       1.1.30.9         0.1       19.3       10.8      15.2           76.5       68.2      65.1       58.5
Pooels                                        64.7          165.7         153.9          170.7          294.4          788.9          8.3      38.2       14.6       21.8          22.8       31.4       34.3      40.8
a/u Crude Potroloato                         (46.8)        (136.83       (1 11.43       (114.3)        (201.7)        (78.5)         (4.21     (34.7)    (15.3)      23.5          (16.5)    (21.0)     (23.5)     (39.9)
LIoufoctured Goada                             1.9            5.8           1.9)           2.5            5.4           17.3         30.3       9.6       21.2       17.9            0.17      0.4        0.6       0.- 7
Total Merchandise Exports                    283.9          553.9         464.0          544.0          857.0        1,932.1          3.0      24.2       12.1       17.6          100.0     110.0      100.0      108.0
merch-ediaa Trada Indices
Export Pric. loden                            51.3          100.0          93.4           97.6          130.7          199.0          9.3      23.9        7.8        7.4
loport Price   odaes                          81.3          100.0         111.0          118.1          159.1          222.8         10.2      13.3        7.7        7.0
T.-.s  o f Trade loden                        81.7          100.0          84.1           82.6           82.8           84.4          5.8       0.4        0.0        0,4
VALUE ADDrED By 18050R                                               As Perc...t of Total GDP
1973           1974          1975           1976           1989           1985
Agri..lture                                   25.0           25.2          75.4           25.0           25.6           23.1          4.7       3.9        3.9        5.6
Tadustry sod MInIng                           34.4           33.4          32.1           32.2           32.1           34.9          3.7       3.7        6.0        8.0
Service                                       40.6           41.4          42.5           42.8           42.1           40.0          5.8       7.5        5.0        5.1
Total                                        180.6          100.0         100.0          100.0          100.0          100.0
PUBLIC FINANCPEcec                                                       f O
(Ceotrol Gooeronoot)                             1973           1974          1975           1976
Corrast Baceipto                              13.7           17.2          16.1           15.1
Csrreat ta.ponditures                         13.7           14.6          14.3           1.
Budgetary S-cinEs                              -              2.6            1.$8.
Public Sector Soo-go                              6.6           12.4            7.1           6.6
P.blir Fiood Capitol Porntine                     8.9           10.4          10.3           10.4
CURREN   EXPENBITUR    ETAILI                                                                                                            DETAIL ON
(Ae . Ttal  urrot ,cpaoditure)            1973           1974          1975           1976                                        PUBLIC SECTOR                         A. Perc9eot of Total
lends and Non-ices                            F 205          15.0           18.8          20,4                                        INVB1TMNT PROGRAM4                           3976-So
Wages and SaIarIes                            61.6           52.7          51.3           52.0                                        AgrIculture                                    9.6
Tronofer Pay-ets                              12.8           29.0          24.9           24.8                                        MinIng and Hydroca.rbons                      23.5
other                                          5.1            3.3           4.0            2.8                                        ind,stoy and Power                            25.8
Total torrent Expeoditore                    100.0          100.0         100.0          108.0                                        Tr-oport and Coo-oi-ationa                    19.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Public   ServIceIC end. Sociala DeSe vIce  22.2
SELECTED INDICATORS                              1969-          1973-          1976-          1960-                                      FINANCING                             As Percent of Total
.1973          1976           1990           1985                                                                                    1977.80
ICON                                              3.8            3.0            3.6            3.31                                      PrIvate Sector                                30.0
lop-ct Ilasricity                                 2.9            2.3            1.3             .64                                      Ponige aS.reno                                31.0
Avrags BatiOnal S-ologs Bate                       .15            .05            .14            .14                                      Public Sector                                 39.0
morgi.ol NaElenal S-oiOgs Rate                    -.07            .30            .10            .24                                      D.it Sa-ole Ratio                             19.5
LABO8 FoRC1 AND                                                                                                                                  Value Added Per Worker
OUTPUT PER WORK1ER                                  To Thousand                    . of Total                irouth Rots                    In US1 Dollars     Perceot of Anereac
1970           1975           1970           1975              1970-75                   1 970       19 76      1970l     1976
Agrilooltura                                    1,307          1,481           64.4           37.9                2.5                      264.8       206.5       40.1      44.2
Ind-try and mining                                276            400           13.6          15.6                 7.7                    1.634.9     1,400.7      247,7     202.1
Lare I de                                         446            678           22.0           26.5                0.7                    1,215.9     1,119.5      184.0     161.5
Total                                           7,029          2,559         100.0           100.0                4.6                      659.0       693.0      1OD.      100.0



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BOLIVIA:    BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Current US1$ illion)
Actual                                     Provisional             F-i-tped
1971           1972           1973           1974           1975           1976            lOgO
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Imports (torl. NFS)                                      -227.5         -260.6         -332.4         -518.9         -682.4         -708.5        -1,292.0        -2,195.3
Exports (ijol. NFS)                                       198.3          224.7          310.1          588.1          510.3          601.1           997.7         2,147.1
Resource Balance                                          -29.2          -35.9          -22.3           69.2         -172.1         -107.4          -294.3           -48.2
Factor Intone                                             -17.0          -21.8          -24.8          -31.0          -31.4          -46.9          -114.7          -283.5
Net lnrerest Payments                                   (-9.4)         (-13.4)       (-18.0)        (-19.5)        (-23.8)        (-38.4)         (-91.5)        (-193.1)
Other Factor Service Incote (NSt)                       (-7.6)         (-8.4)         (-6.8)      . (-11.3)          (-7.6)        (-8.5)         (-23.2)         (-90.4)
Current Transfers (Net)                                     7.1           13.4           15.4           12.0           13.0           14.0             7.5             4.0
Current Account Balance                                   -39.1          -44.3          -31.7          -50.2         -190.5         -140.3          -401.5          -327.7
Direot Foreign Inveutnent                                   1.9          -13.4            4.6           20.8           53.4           37.0           129.5           100.0
Official Capital Grants                                     -              8.0           10.0       4    9.0           10.5            7.0             -               -
Public MALT Loans (Net)                                    50.1          100.5           15.7           64.3           99.3          186.6           291.7           304.7
Disburuenents                                           (70.2)        (132.8)         (48.6)        (118.6)        (160.7)        (259.6)         (457.1)         (631.8)
Repayrsests                                            (-20.1)        (-32.3)        (-32.9)        (-54.3)        (-69.4)        (-73.0)        (-165.4)        (-327.1)
Other M&LT Loans                                           11.9           15.1           16.9           13.0           19.7           15.3            20.4
IMP Drawiogs                                                4.0            4'3            -              -
Other Short Term, Errors & Omissions                      -35.1          -53.4          -30.9          -33.5          -47.5          -52.7             -               -
Change in Net Re.ervs- (--Increase)                         6.3          -16.8           15.4         -123.8           54.6          -52.9           -40.1           -77.0
Total Net Neserves (End of Period)                         61.5           58.3           42.9          166.7          112.1          165.0           382.4           640.3
B. GRANT AND LOANS COMeITMENTS
Total M6LT Loans                                           89.3          180.0           78.2          173.7          392.6          384.7
IBED                                                        -              -              -              -             32.0           68.0
IDA                                                         6.8            8.0            6.0            6.2            7.5            -
Other Muitilaterul                                         20.0           27.0           11.2           35.0           104.6          55.5
Governmuen.t                                               35.2           71.7           34.1           64.0          109.2           33.3
Suppliers                                                   3.9           27.4           16.6            8.7           39.7           30.0
Fi-ancLal Institutions                                     23.3           23.1            9.9           56.0           89.3          197.9
Other                                                       0.1           22.8            0.4            3.8           10.3            -
C. MEMORANDUM ITEMS
Grant Element nf Total Co-uoittnet  (7.)                   35.7           34.4           40.4           40.7           23.5           17.4
Average Interest (7)                                        4.4            4.5            4.0            5.3            5.9            7.0
Average Maturity (YTears)                                  24.3           19.9           23.0           25.8           17.9           13.8
D. EXTERNAL DEBT                                                    Actoal Debt Outarandinoc   Dec. 31. 1976                DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Dtshurued Only     Percent                                                                             1973      1974        1975        1976
IBRD                                                                      27.3            2.7                         A. MEDIUM & LONG TEBM DEBT (DlSEBRSED ONLY)
IDA                                                                       53.2            5.2                               Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)     630.8     691.7       779.9     1,014.3
OTHER MULTILATE.RAL                                                       66.0            6.5                               Including Undibo-rsed                          767.9     889.4     1,202.7     1,508.5
GOVERNMENTS                                                              435.8           43.0                               Public Debt Service                             46.1      67.9        80.0       102.3
SUPPLIERS                                                                 66.4            6.5                                 Interest                                      15.8      17.3        23.6        35.3
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                                   243.3           24.0
BONDS                                                                     57.0            5.6                         B. DEBT BURDEN
PUBLIC DEBT N.E.T.                                                        65.3            6.5                               Debt Service Ratio                              14.9      11.5        15.7        17.0
TOTAL PUBLIC MALT DEBT                                                 1,014.3          100.0                               Debt Service Eto    /17.1                                 13.5        17.2        18.4
Debt Service/GDP                                 4.4       4.0         3.9         4.2
E. DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1977-80/Total WDD End of 1976                          64.2                                              Interest on Total SDO/Total SDO                  2.5       2.5         3.0         3.5
Total,Debt Service Ratio                         7.3       9.8        10.3        10.1
B, DEPENDENCY RATIOS POR MALT DEBT
Gross Disburneanent/lopnrtt  (incl. NFS)        14.6      22.9        24.7         36.6
Net Trsnsfer/Snmports (incl. NFS)                -         9.1        11.1        21.4
Net Transfer/Gross Disborse=ent                  -        39.6        44.9        58.3
E. EXPOSURE
IBRD SOS/Total SOS                               3.6       3.0         2.7         2.7
Banh Group Disb./Totsl DOS                       8.4       8.9         9.0         7.9
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service             4.6       5.0         2.0         2.6
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service       5.2       5.4         2.6         3.1
I/ Including Net Direct Investment Intone.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
1/
CONTRACTED PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT,     1969-1976
(US$ millions)
2/
1969      1970       1971      1972      1973       1974      1975      1976-
International Organizations            39.1       6.9      26.8      35.0       17.2      41.2     144.1      123.5
CAF                                 -          -         0.1       2.0        1.2       -        38.1        6.3
IBRD                               23.3        -         -         -          -         -        32.0       68.0
IDA                                 7.4        1.4       6.8       8.0        6.0       6.2       7.5        -
IDB                                 8.5        5.5      19.9      25.0       10.0      35.0      66.5       49.2
Governments                            30.0      17.2      35.2       71.7      34.1      64.0     109.2       33.3
Argentina                           3.2       14.3       4.3       4.2        3.4       2.9       3.4        -
Czechoslovakia                      -          -         3.9       1.4        -         -         -          -
Germany F.R.                        1.7        1.4       -         -          -        28.6       -          5.2
United Kingdom                       1.4       -         -         6.8        -         -          -         -
USA                                 22.7       1.5      25.3      40.0       26.5      28.8       26.9      25.3
USSR                                 -         -         -         15.9       -         -          -         -
Others                               1.0       -         1.7        3.4       4.2       3.7       18.9       2.8
Suppliers' Credits                     11.5       1.6       3.9       27.4      16.6       8.7       39.7      30.0
Argentina                            -         -         1.6        5.1       5.9       1.6        1.7       0.3
Belgium                             -          -         -          -         5.8       0.1        -         -
Canada                              -          -         -         -          3.7       -          -         -
Denmark                             0.7        1.3       -          0.8       0.2       -          3.0       -
Germany F.R.                        3.9        0.3       -          -         -         -         11.0       -
Israel                              -          -         -         -          -         -         5.5        -
Italy                               2.1        -         -         13.9       -         -          -         -
Japan                                -         -         2.0        6.4       -         -         10.8       4.4
Spain                               3.3        -         -         -          -         -         -          -
USA                                 -          -         -          1.1       0.9       1.9       2.4        -
Others                              1.5        -         0.3       0.1        0.1       5.1       5.3       25.3
Private Banks                           1.3       -        23.3       23.1       9.9      56.0      89.3      197.9
Brazil                              -          -        12.0       7.9        4.7      13.5       -          2.8
USA                                 1.3        -        10.0      12.8        1.5      34.3      63.9      144.0
Others                              -          -         1.3       2.4        3.7       8.2      25.4       51.1
Other                                 14.1        4.1       0.1       22.7       0.4       3.8       10.3       -
Nationalization (USA)                  -         78.6       -          -         0.7       -         -          -
3/
TOTAL          96.2      108.4      89.3      180.0      78.9     173.7      392.6     384.7
1/ Repayable in foreign currency only.
2/ Provisional
3/ Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source: Central Bank, IBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



AMINEX ]I
I'age 1 of 3
T}IE STATUS OF BAN, GROUP OPER'ATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1977)
US$ million
Loan  or                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Credit_#    Year   Borrower              Purpose               Bank      IDA      Undisb.
Fully disbursed loans and credits                              23.3     38.6
261        1971    Bolivia              Livestock                       6.8        1.2
433        1973    Bolivia              Power                           6.0        0.2
455        1974    Bolivia              Mining/Manufacturing            6.2        3.1
561        1975    Bolivia              Agriculture                     7.5        5.9
1121        1975    ENFE                 Railways              28.7                10.1
1211        1976    Bolivia              Rural Develop.         9.5                 9.2
1238        1976    ENDE IV              Power                 25.0                24.7
1290        1976     Bolivia             Mining/Manufactur.    10.0                10.0
1324        1976    Bolivia              Water Sup. & Sew.     11.5                11.5
1331 /1     1976    Bolivia              Small-Scale Mining    12.0    _12.0
Total                                            120.0      65.1       87.9
Of which has been repaid                           5.1       0.5
Total held by Bank and IDA                       114.9      64.6
Total undisbursed                                                      87.9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMIENTS (As of March 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                                           Amount in US$ million
Year          Obligator             Type of Business           Loan    Equity     Total
1973    Plasmar, S.A.             Cables and Plastic            0.3      0.1       0.4
Products
1976    Banco Ilipotecario        Capital Market                         0.3       0.3
Nacional
1976    Banco Industrial S.A.     Development Financing       _          0.6       0.6
TOTAL                         0.3      1.0       1.3
1/ Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(As of March 31, 1977)
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million,
June 25, 1971; Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30,
1977
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now pro-
ceeding as scheduled and the credit should be fully disbursed by the Closing
Date.
Credit 433-BO - Third ENDE Power Project, US$6 million, October 17, 1973;
Effective Date: December 11, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project was initially delayed due to unexpectedly long delivery
time for the gas turbines originally planned to be installed at Santa Cruz.
Cost overruns are estimated at about 34% over the original estimates, but this
does not significantly affect the economic justification of the project. ENDE
will finance the overruns with its own funds.
Credit 455-BO - Mining Credit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is proceeding as scheduled and the credit should be
fully disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Borrower has arranged bilateral financing for locomotives in
the project and in accordance with the understanding reached with the Bank,
the loan amount has been reduced from $32 million to $28.7 million. Project
progress has been satisfactory with performance targets either having been
attained or exceeded.
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project. US$9.5 million, March 8,
1976; Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 millioh, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date:    April 14, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 20, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million, October
15, 1976; Effective Date:                 ; Closing Date:   December 31, 1980
The terminal date-for the effectiveness of this loan, originally
January 13, 1977, has been postponed to May 16, 1977 to allow additional time
for the Borrower to select consultants for the technical assistance component
of the project. The loan is expected to become effective soon.



ANNEX III
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Borrower:          Administracion de Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares a la
Navegacion Aerea (AASANA)
Guarantor:          The Republic of Bolivia
Amount:            US$25 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 20 years, including 4-1/2 years of grace
at 8.2% interest per annum.
Project            Construction of two new airports (Riberalta and San Borja),
Description:      major improvement of two others (Santa Ana and Tarija),
provision of navaids, communications equipment at project
airports and countrywide, provision of general and runway
maintenance equipment, technical assistance and training
and detail design of Cochabamba Airport.
Estimated                                      (in US$ million equivalent)
Cost:                    Component          Local      Foreign     Total
Civil Works                 8.8        11.3       20.1
Engineering Design and
Supervision               1.6         0.4        2.0
Aviation Equipment          0.6         3.5         4.1
Maintenance Equipment       0.1         0.8         0.9
Technical Assistance        0.4         1.1        1.5
Training                    0.0         0.2         0.2
Cochabamba Design           0.8         0.2         1.0
Contingencies
Physical                  1.0         1.9        2.9
Price                     2.5         4.3        6.8
Total Project Cost    15.8        23.7       39.5
Financing Plan:                                (in US$ million equivalent)
Local     Foreign      Total
IBRD                 1.3        23.7      25.0
Government Equity   14.5           -      14.5
15.8        23.7       39.5



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Disbursement:       (in US$ million equival-nt)
Fiscal Year         Annual         Cumulative
78               3.8               3.8
79               3.1               6.9
80               7.7              14,6
81               8.0              g2.6
82               2.2              24.8
83               0.2              25.0
Total             25.0
Procurement:                  Civil works contracts for the Tarija airport have
been let (drainage) or are about to be let
(paving) under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. All other contracts for civil works,
navigational aids, communications equipment and
installation would be awarded under international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. Local firms are not expected to bid
for equipment. Contracts for technical assistance
will be negotiated and training will be arranged
individually through UNDP/ICAO. Proposed loan
includes retroactive financing of up to US$1.0
million for civil works at Tarija and US$0.7
million for engineering services for the four
project airports incurred after January 1, 1977.
The Bank would finance 56% of civil works costs,
70% of the cost of consultants' services and 100%
of the foreign exchange cost of equipment,
materials, installation, technical assistance and
training.
Technical Assistance:         Engineering contract (40 man-years at US$50,000
per man-year) for the final design and supervision
of the construction of the four project airports
has been awarded to local consultants. Consult-
ants for the detailed design of the Cochabamba
airport (20 man-years at US$50,000 per man-year)
have not yet been selected. AASANA will nego-
tiate the contracts for the five-man technical
assistance team (25 man-years at US$50,000 per
man-year).
Rate of Return:               19%.
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 1458b-BO dated April 28, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SECTION I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Nineteen months.
(b)  Agencies which prepared project:   AASANA and Bank.
(c) First presentation to Bank: August 1974.
(d) First Bank mission to review project: April 1975.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission: November 7, 1976.
(f) Completion of negotiations: Mlarch 31, 1977.
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   August 1, 1977.
SECTION II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE
SECTION III - Special Conditions
1.   Government would ensure that if the new airport at Santa Cruz
were constructed, AASANA would be the operator only, and not
the owner, until it can be assured that the transfer of the
assets of the new airport to AASANA will not prevent the latter
from achieving its financial goals (paragraph 29).
2.   AASANA would adjust salaries for technical specialists as
necessary to recruit and retain needed personnel (paragraph 36).
3.   AASANA would consult from time to time with the Bank on the
structure and level of its user charges (paragraph 39).
4.   AASANA would take all necessary actions to produce a working ratio
of not more than 75% from 1978, 60% in 1979-82 and a return on net
fixed assets of not less than 2% in 1983-84 and not less than 4%
by 1985 and thereafter, and a combined working ratio of the project
airports of not more than 85% by 1985 and thereafter (paragraph 39).
5.   AASANA would consult with the Bank before undertaking any expansion
or improvement, other than the Project, of over US$1.0 million at any
one site in any one year (paragraph 40).
6.   A training program for its technical staff would be prepared by AASANA
to begin not later than October 1978 and to last for a period of three
years (paragraph 41).






IBRD- 12654
k' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6'  ~ ~~~~~~~~g.fEERUARY 1977
B  R A   Z I L_                   _'                                                   IR-25
BOLIVIA
AVIATION   PROJECT
uerto RICO                           MW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ECT AIRtPORTS
v  Xryrmra   INTERlIATIOIALAIRPORTS
OTHER A A.SPJA. AIRPORTS
f   PRJVATEAIRPORES
\     fl \ O  VMAIN ROADS
12-                                           - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____ SECONDARY ROADS
412'  \  RAILWAYS                     12'
DEPARTMENT BOUNIDARIES
-1 CX  \  E   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Ru eUDObqUe  3 E NR i S        < /                       \\
r   Apolo?k  $        Son 1950dB de Moxus tTRINIDAD 
* ; \ >Son  .ordo  ,                                  I j
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o JIIYIPAZO(                 Son IgRocroOde VelosCo  Srin MotroXS
jX  /  >  X   t COC3Q           >     S A p4T Anta A,, ,'A                      j
g   \ O R U R O  X ntlo RosaRoborP                                     /
P E R U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O Ol
X~~~~~~~~CRe                            4.          /   P A    A  G    A      t s/ool
o~~~~~Ao
Son Ignaci de M  TRINI
U                               j  * V dI' tY( \   \          /     P  AR  C  A5  G  U5  A0 Y ',P
c   ?   /  w  00uchislo / c X u t u | S  A  c A j50
41~~~~~~~~~~1
O           <   0   T O S   <        A           {t     /           td          V    nAlEE obor
<        )      ,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIRI  ToSollo  o0o 
,of (   <.  A R G  E r                   ..or7o A.P A R A G
ni ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ C,dI,koIOIII~   ________________



