Report No. 1458b-BO                                                                   FILE  Copy
Bolivia: Appraisal of an
Aviation Development Project
April 28, 1977
Latin America and the Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 Bolivian Peso ($b)                    =  US$0.05
US$1.00                                  =  20.0 Bolivian Pesos ($b)
1 million Bolivian Pesos ($b)            =  US$50,000
System of Weights and Measures
Metric                                   US Units
1 kilometer (km)                         =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                             5  3.28 feet (ft)
1 liter (1)                              =  0.26 US gallon
1 kilogram (kg)                          =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                                    =  2,205 pounds
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AASANA           Airports and Air Navigation Services Administration
AGA              Aerodromes and Ground Aids
ATC              Air Traffic Control
COM              Communications
CNA              National Aviation Council
DGAC             Directorate General of Civil Aviation
DGTTA            Directorate General of Air Transport and Aerial Work
DME              Distance Measuring Equipment
ECLA             Economic Commission of Latin America
FAB              Bolivian Air Force
HF               High Frequency
ICAO/OACI        International Civil Aviation Organization
ILS              Instrument Landing System
ISB              Independent Side Band
LAB              Lloyd Aerea Boliviano
LRB              Locating Radio Beacon
MTCCA            Ministry of Transport, Communications, and Civil Aviation
NAVAID           Navigational Aid
NDB              Non-Directional Radio Beacon
RX               Receiver
SAC              Under-Secretary for Civil Aviation
SSB              Single Side Band
TX               Transmitter
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
VASI             Visual Approach Slope Indicator
VHF              Very High Frequency
VOR              Very High Frequency Omni-Directional Radio Range
Aircraft                                  Nominal
B-727-100        Boeing three-engine jet                 119 seats   2 tons belly load
B-727-200                                                140 seats 4.5 tons belly load
CV-580           Convair twin-engine turbo propeller                  8 tons pay load
F-27             Fokker twin-engine turbo propeller        40 seats or 5 tons pay load
C-46             Curtiss twin-engine piston propeller               5.5 tons pay load
DC-3             Douglas twin-engine piston propeller   28 seats   3 tons pay load



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF AN AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .......... ...... ..  .......................    i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ............................................. o.............          1
2.    BACKGROUND  ................................................                        1
A.   General  ...............................................                      1
B.   The Transport Sector .....................................                    2
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination ...................                       3
D.  Development Plan ......              ................................          4
3.    BOLIVIAN AVIATION  ........................................................         5
A.   Existing Air Transport  .....              ...........................        5
B.   Present Air Traffic  ......            ......................                 6
C.   Traffic Forecasts  (Project Airports)  ............              ......       7
Passenger Forecast  .....            ..........................        7
Cargo Forecast  ............... ........... ........                   8
Aircraft Movements ..........  8
D.   Existing Organizations  .................................                     8
E.   The Borrower - AASANA ......................................                  9
4. THE PROJECT . . ........... 10
A.   Objectives  ...           .........................................          10
B.  Description ................................ *...............    10
Airport Construction and Improvements  ............    11
Design and Supervision of Construction ...........    11
Design of Cochabamba Runway ......................                    12
Provision of Equipment  ...........................    12
AASANA Technical Assistance and Staff Training  ...    13
C.   Special Components of the Project  .....                ................     13
D.   Ecology    ...............................................                   13
E. Cost Estimate .........                                           .......  14
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. B. Bostrom (Aviation
Economist), J. Bowlin (Financial Analyst) and W.B.R. Zetterstrom (Aviation
Engineer) and Ms. V. Foster (Editor).
This docuwmnt has a retnctod distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutie. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosd without World Bank autmrlaaton.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
F.  Execution           .........................    15
G.  Procurement .......          ..................    15
H.  Disbursements ....................................   16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ........................ ..  16
A.  General ................  0..  *.*............ .....   16
B.  Economic Analysis ... ............... . .................   17
C.  Cost Savings ...       ............................   18
D.  Project Return ..   .................................   19
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION .................. . .................   19
A.  Existing Situation ...............................   19
B.    Financial  Objectives   .......................... .......  20
C.  Financial Plan ...      .................................  21
D.  Financial Projections ...............................  21
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .....................  24
TABLES
1. Total Freight Movement in Bolivia
2. Comparative Economy Air Fares, 1976
3. Names and Abbreviations of Airports
4. Forecast Passenger and Freight at Project Airports
5. Forecast Aircraft Traffic
6. Cost Estimates
7. Disbursement Schedule
8. Estimated Aircraft Cost Savings in 1981
9.  Quantified Project Benefits 1978-1998
10. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
11. Balance Sheets 1970-1974 - AASANA
12.  Statement of Revenues - AASANA
13.  Projected Operating Statements - AASANA
14.  Projected Project Airport Operating Statements - Riberalta Airport
15.  Projected Project Airport Operating Statements - Santa Ana Airport
16.  Projected Project Airport Operating Statements - San Borja Airport
17.  Projected Project Airport Operating Statements - Tarija Airport
18.  Project Cash Flow - AASANA
19.  Projected Balance Sheets - AASANA
20. Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
2. Bolivia Aircraft and Airport Inventory
3. Aircraft Accidents in Bolivia
4.  Traffic Forecast Methodology
5. Existing Airport Conditions and Proposed Improvements
6. Location List for Equipment Included in the Project
7. Regional Maintenance Equipment
8. Draft Technical Assistance Job Descriptions
9. Special Components of the Project
10. Project Progress Monitoring Indices
11. Summary and Conclusions of Bolivia Transport Sector Report
12. Details of the Economic Evaluation
13. Financial Assumptions
CHART
1. Organization Chart
MAPS
IBRD 12654 - Project Airports
IBRD 12655 - Telecommunications Network






BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF AN AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project comprising:
(a) the construction of two new domestic airports (Riberalta and
San Borja) and major improvements at two others (Santa Ana
and Tarija);
(b) the design and supervision of construction in (a);
(c) the provision of air navigational aids (Navaids) and communica-
tions (Com) equipment at the project airports and new country-
wide Navaid and Com systems;
(d) the provision of general maintenance equipment and runway
maintenance equipment;
(e) the provision of technical assistance and staff training to
the Borrower; and
(f) the design of a new runway, aprons and related works at the
Cochabamba Airport.
ii.       The difficulties for surface transport created by topography and
population distribution are reflected in high infrastructure costs. Given the
scarcity of surface transport and the low population density in the lowlands,
the Government is emphasizing the development of aviation for this and other
isolated parts of the country.
iii.      The project, to be administered by Administracion de Aeropuertos y
Servicios Auxiliares a la Navegacion Aerea (AASANA), will enable the domestic
airlines and, in particular, the almost wholly Government-owned Lloyd Aereo
Boliviano (LAB), to use larger, more productive aircraft, which already exist
in their fleets, at a higher daily utilization rate with correspondingly lower
unit costs. The project will also reduce the delays, cancellations and diver-
sions for aircraft through improved aeronautical communications, navigational
aids and runway maintenance equipment. The technical assistance and training
element are intended to strengthen the planning, maintenance and construction
units responsible for civil works and equipment of the borrower. The inade-
quate length and poor orientation of the present runway at Cochabamba, the
main base of LAB, make it advisable to construct a new runway. It is desir-
able to support the project by providing funds for its detailed design. How-
ever, it is not possible at this stage to include the construction of the new
runway in the present loan because of limited funds.



- ii -
iv.       The proposed US$25.0 million Bank loan represents the 60% foreign
exchange component plus 8.4% of the local cost component (expenditures for
local consultants) of the US$39.5 million required for the project. The
remaining local costs will be financed by an equity investment from the
Government, which will exempt project items from taxes and duties.
v.        Contracts would be awarded through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Retroactive financing would be required
for design and supervision at three airports as well as paving and supervision
at one airport (Tarija). Such amounts should not exceed US$1.7 million.
vi.       The main project benefits are cash savings to LAB from better uti-
lized, more efficient and productive aircraft. The transport to or from
isolated communities by non-scheduled Bolivian cargo airlines would also be
assisted by the provision of better communications, air navigational aids and
runway maintenance. In addition, unquantified benefits include time savings
to passengers and prevention of spoilage of air cargo, improved air safety
and better inter-regional integration of the country. The quantified economic
return ranges from 12% to 24% for individual project items, with an average
of 19% for the project as a whole.
vii.      The financial evaluation is based on the assumptions of tariff
increases to cover operating costs for AASANA's entire system by 1980 and to
give a return on fixed assets of 4% from 1985 onward. Even with these tariff
increases, substantial benefits will still accrue to LAB, which, however, will
be required for its continued fleet modernization.
viii.     This report is based on economic and engineering studies made by the
proposed Borrower and its consultants. It would be the fourth Bank Group
transportation project in Bolivia and the first in aviation development.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.0 million
to AASANA, with a Government guarantee. The term would be 20 years, including
a grace period of four and one-half years.



BOLIVIA
APPRAISAL OF AN AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bolivia has requested Bank Group financial assis-
tance in upgrading its air transport system to meet domestic transport needs
more adequately. The project selected as the most appropriate concentrates
on construction or reconstruction of four airports in isolated parts of the
country: Riberalta, Santa Ana de Yacuma and San Borja in the northern depart-
ment of Beni and Tarija in the south. The project also includes design for a
new runway, taxiways and apron at Cochabamba; aeronautical communications and
air navigational equipment; and runway maintenance equipment and technical
assistance and training for the operating agency, Administracion de Aeropuertos
y Servicios Auxiliares a la Navegacion Aerea (AASANA), the proposed borrower.
1.02      This would be the first Bank Group aviation project in Bolivia.
Annex 1 gives details of previous Bank Group loans and credits for Bolivian
transportation projects (railways and pipelines).
1.03      Project cost is estimated at US$39.5 million (net of taxes and
duties) with a US$23.7 million, or 60%, foreign exchange component. The pro-
posed loan of US$25.0 million would cover this foreign exchange requirement
plus US$1.3 million equivalent to cover a part of the costs of consultant
services for detailed engineering design (paras. 4.08 and 4.10).
1.04      This report is based on the technical and economic studies prepared
by AASANA and its various consultants and on the findings of a Bank appraisal
mission comprising Messrs. B. Bostrom (Aviation Economist), W.B.R. Zetterstrom
(Aviation Engineer) and J. Bowlin (Financial Analyst), which visited Bolivia
in November 1976. The report has been edited by Ms. V. Foster.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million km2, which can be roughly divided
into the barren highlands "Altiplano" in the western part of the country, where
most of the country's population lives; the central valleys in the midwest, and
the lowlands to the east and the north. The departments of Pando, Beni and
Santa Cruz are in the latter area and represent more than half the territory
of the country, but contain only a small part (19%) of the population. Because
of topographical barriers and long distances, transportation's role of encour-
aging overall economic development through an interchange of production among
regions is unusually difficult. The provision of adequate transportation
is further complicated by low traffic densities.
2.02      The difficulties caused by topography and population distribution
are reflected in high transport infrastructure costs, necessitating a very



careful analysis of the most appropriate modes of transportation and potential
projects for investment. After such an analysis, the Government is emphasizing
the development of aviation for isolated parts of the country. Of the total
transport projects in the five-year plan 1976-1980, an allocation of 21% has
been made to investments in civil aviation.
B.   The Transport Sector (See Table I for comparison of traffic by modes)
Railways
2.03      The railway is a very important transport mode as a result
of the focus on mining as the prime activity for the modern sector of the econ-
omy. The system consists of about 3,400 km of meter-gauge Government-owned
single track line (Map IBRD 12654). The most important route is the line con-
necting the mining areas and La Paz with the Chilean ports of Arica and
Antofagasta. This western network is not directly connected to the eastern
lines linking Santa Cruz with the Argentine and Brazilian meter-gauge networks;
the only connection between the two networks is through Argentine territory.
Although less important in terms of traffic, the line between Brazil and Santa
Cruz is vital since it is the only surface mode of transport in this area and
the natural import route for this rapidly growing part of the country. As a
result of improvements in management and operation through two Bank-financed
projects and tariff increases in 1975 and 1977, the railway is presently
operating at a profit. A third railway project is being considered for Bank
financing.
Highways
2.04      The present road system consists of about 38,000 km, of which 3%
(1,166 km) are paved, 17% (6,559 km) are gravel surfaced and the remainder,
80% (29,831 km), are unimproved earth roads. The most important part of the
network is located in the highlands and valleys, where 84% of the population
is concentrated in 34% of the territory. In contrast, the lowlands of the
northern and eastern regions, which have twice the area of the other two
regions, are insufficiently serviced by a few low standard roads. The road
network generally is laid out in the form of a "Y" with Oruro as center; the
main stem pointing to the south toward Sucre, Potosi, Tarija and through
Villazon and Bermejo into Argentina; the left arm stretching through La Paz
into the Titicaca and Yungas regions; and the right arm leading through
Cochabamba into the lowlands of Santa Cruz. In view of the road conditions,
road transport is primarily important only on relatively short hauls.
Waterways
2.05      The river transport system is made up of an extensive network of
inland waterways located in the eastern and northern parts of Bolivia, mea-
suring about 1,600 km. Minimum channel depths vary from 1.0 to 3.5 m, with
seasonal variations of up to 9.0 m. The system consists of five main water-
ways, as shown on Map IBRD 12654. These rivers represent the only available
transport mode for commodities whose value is too low to justify movement by
air. As such, they perform a vital function even though the quantities moved
are small.



- 3 -
2.06      Lake transport is limited to Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable
lake in the world. Its primary function is that of an alternate transport
corridor to the Pacific Ocean through the Peruvian lake port of Puno, by rail
and road to the seaports of Matarani and Mollendo. In terms of ton-km of
freight traffic, lake traffic is more important than river traffic.
Pipelines
2.07      The state oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines and 754 km
of gas pipelines. The oil pipelines allow access from the major production
fields to the Pacific seaport of Arica and to the Argentine border. The
Bank-financed natural gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO) conveys gas to Argentina.
Depending on the success of intensive exploration efforts now under way and
the confirmation of identified reserves, significant new pipeline construction
may be undertaken.
Aviation
2.08      The aviation sector is discussed in Chapter 3.
C.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.09      Important issues related to transport planning and coordination in
Bolivia need attention. As an example, during the next 20 years, there is
little doubt that Bolivia will have to construct and improve a substantial
number of roads. This program, which could cost several hundred million
dollars, must be carefully defined and evaluated against the alternatives
offered by the other transport modes.
2.10      A National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP, was
completed in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency; it proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years.
One of its main recommendations was that a Directorate of Planning and Coor-
dination should be created. The Directorate was created and, for a time, was
attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning, but is now in the
Ministry of Transportation, Communications and Civil Aviation (MTCCA).
2.11      For achieving better planning and coordination, the Bank, in 1972,
assisted in the preparation of terms of reference for a UNDP-financed tech-
nical assistance program to strengthen this Directorate. This program, with
ECLA acting as executing agency, was cancelled in 1976 due to lack of funds
after only partial implementation (a consultant worked for a few weeks at
MTCCA and assisted in the preparation of projects to be included in the
National Five-Year Investment Plan, 1976-1980).
2.12      The gap in knowledge regarding transport facilities and equipment,
their condition, their age and their ability to meet expected demands is
serious. Although individual project studies have been undertaken, there has
been no real coordination among them. The Government has decided to update
its National Transport Plan again under the direction of the Directorate of
Planning and Coordination. The main objectives of the Plan would be to:



-4-
(a) analyze and project the transport demand in relation to
planned development of the economy;
(b) review existing capacity and operations;
(c) determine the role of each mode in relation to the demand;
(d) recommend policies and operational improvements designed to
make best use of available capacity; and
(e) prepare a program of investments necessary to improve and
expand capacity to meet projected demand.
2.13      Due to the limited funds available, UNDP and the Government have
requested that financing of the program be taken over by the Bank. Funds
for the needed updating of the National Transport Plan and for a technical
assistance contract for its implementation are being recommended in the
Third Railway Project now under consideration (para. 2.03).
D.   Development Plan
2.14      The Government's main transport strategy (except for pipelines,
planned by the Ministries of Mines and Industry), for the five years 1976-
1980 can be summarized as follows:
(a) extend and improve the road network to meet national and
regional development related to high priority sectors in
the economy;
(b) continue the rehabilitation of the state railway;
(c) modernize air transport through improvement and reequipment
of infrastructure, ensuring permanent availability of smaller
airports, particularly in the north and northeast;
(d) extend the river and lake fleet and improve port facilities and
river navigation; and
(e) achieve an efficient operation of each transport mode in such
a way that costs are low and services satisfy the demand.
2.15      The present MTCCA plan calls for investment, during 1976-1980, in
projects already under execution totalling US$475 million in transport,
excluding pipelines; of this total, US$266 million is for highways, US$107
million is for railways, and US$102 million is for aviation. In addition,
projects of US$439 million are under study, with an aviation share of
US$111 million and the rest for highways. This may be compared to total
public sector investment of US$2,436 million, or almost 20%. Productive
sectors (industry, mining, hydrocarbons and agriculture) will use about 60%
of the public sector investment, and energy and public services will use the
rest. About 62% of the transport investment is in foreign exchange and is
likely to require external financing. Continued sector planning and coordi-



- 5 -
nation are required to ensure that the projects under study are justified in
their overall context and are well-timed. Of the US$102 million 1976-1980
investment for aviation, the major part is for airport improvement and air-
craft purchases for the national airline, Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB). This
planned investment is ambitious, but seems achievable.
2.16      In addition to the proposed project and other Government investments
in the five-year plan above, it became apparent during appraisal that, because
of a recent aircraft accident at Santa Cruz, a great deal of public pressure
was being exerted to relocate the existing airport to a site some 15 km north
of the town. However, various Government officials (notably in finance and
planning) raised serious reservations to this proposed construction, primarily
due to the 1976 completion of a new terminal building at the existing airport,
the high interest rates and short payback period for the money to be borrowed,
and the probable necessity to have the airport designed, constructed and
financed by a consortium of firms as a turnkey project with its inherent risk
of over-design and high construction costs. Since the probability of construc-
tion of this proposed airport is unknown, as well as its likely timing, costs
of construction and financing, such costs have not been included in the
financial projections for the project. It is assumed that, if such an
airport were constructed, AASANA would be the operator of the airport only,
not the owner. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that assets
for a new Santa Cruz airport would not be transferred to, nor debt service
cost borne by, AASANA until it can be demonstrated that such a transfer will
not prevent AASANA from complying with the relevant financial covenants of
the Loan Agreement (para. 6.08).
3. BOLIVIAN AVIATION
A.   Existing Air Transport
3.01      Civil aviation in Bolivia is, to a considerable degree, a relic of
the 1940's (Annex 2). The communications (Com) equipment and navigational
aids (Navaids) and some of the airfields date from that era, and the backbone
of the domestic flying industry has basically consisted of aircraft of about
1945 vintage, relatively low in capital cost and operated with a minimum of
maintenance. Airports have been difficult and costly to build; the electronic
equipment, although good in its day, is now old, unreliable, and difficult and
costly to maintain. Operating costs, as well as availability, of the older
aircraft and spare parts are becoming a matter of concern. Runways, buildings,
roads, power plants, radios, beacons and other components have received very
limited maintenance and improvement. The Government, in view of other demands
on its resources, did not, in the past, feel that expenditures in the field of
air transport were of high priority since the system, under the conditions and
with the aircraft types in use, presumably would continue to function to some
degree. The high (reported) accident rate (Annex 3) and other unreported
incidents, however, have led to a change of view. The Government is aware of
the vital role of civil aviation in the country and is anxious to improve the
existing situation. Some progress has been made, and air transport within
Bolivia is now in a state of transition. LAB is completing a change in aircraft



-6-
which involves an upgrading of service so that certain airports previously
served by piston-engined Douglas DC-3 aircraft will change to turbo-propeller-
driven Fokker F-27 and certain F-27 airports will be served by jet aircraft
(Boeing 727). Comparative airline economy tariffs are shown in Table 2.
3.02      About 30 airports are managed by AASANA and served regularly by LAB
flights (Table 3). The four major cities--La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and
Trinidad--account for more than 80% of the regular passenger and 70% of the
cargo traffic. All of these airports, with some weight restrictions, are
used by jet aircraft such as the Boeing B-727-100. The other airports are in
poor condition and can accept only small propeller-driven aircraft. During
the wet season, several of these airports are closed for considerable periods.
This can be a serious limitation since it coincides with the time when all
other modes of transport, except limited river transport in certain areas, are
also out of service.
3.03      Air transport is a vital means of communication, despite its rela-
tively high cost, and is likely to remain so due to the topography of the
country. The areas where the greatest potential for development could be
assisted by improved air transport are northeast of the mountain area and
in the south. The departments of Beni and Pando are accessible only by river,
and then for only part of the year. At present, air transport is the only
practical mode for passengers and high-value or perishable goods. This may
gradually change when penetration roads from La Paz are built. Nevertheless,
the quality of the roads that can be built at reasonable cost in this area
is likely to be such that air transport will remain dominant for many years.
In addition, the sparse population would make air transport the most econ-
omical mode. Trinidad, the capital of Beni, has the only airport of the two
departments which is usable regardless of weather conditions.
B.   Present Air Traffic
3.04      The traffic of LAB has developed substantially since 1965 with the
most rapid growth occurring over the past five years. Domestic passenger
traffic has increased at a yearly rate of 14.5%, as a result of improved air
services responding to the demands of a rapidly growing economy. Domestic air
cargo, on the other hand, has been almost stable for the country as a whole
because of airport and aircraft limitations.
3.05      Scheduled cargo and passenger traffic is monopolized by LAB, but
unscheduled cargo service is split among several private operators. These
private cargo operators are normally engaged in transporting meat from
the Beni area and are owned by meat wholesalers, cattle owners' associations,
and slaughterhouse companies. Conditions under which these flights are
operated present major problems. The availability and low capital cost of old
second-hand cargo aircraft have been attractive in the short run, particularly
in view of the airport limitations and the ability of these aircraft to
operate successfully from them. Of about 50 aircraft (Annex 2), only two are
less than 20 years old. The most typical is the 30-year old C-46, which



- 7 -
carries 5 to 6 tons fairly efficiently on short flights; however, its oper-
ational capabilities are marginal for the high mountains which have to be
passed to and from Beni.
3.06      About 250 small aircraft are operated by air taxi companies and
individuals and, although the number of passengers and cargo transported is
small, these aircraft do provide vital services to the large areas of the
country which lack all-weather roads. A comparison of traffic of the various
types of carriers follows:
Traffic by Carrier Type in 1975
Passengers          Cargo (tons)
LAB                                            396,000               4,300
Air Taxi Operators                              30,000               1,600
Transportes Aereos Militares                    16,500                 200
Government Oil Company                          11,700                   -
Non-Scheduled Cargo Airlines                     9,000              32,000
The air passenger traffic of 463,200 may be compared to the railway traffic of
832,000 passengers for the western system and 317,000 for the eastern system
in 1975; the highway traffic to the eastern sections was negligible.
C.   Traffic Forecasts (Project Airports)
3.07      The passenger traffic forecasts for the project airports, prepared
primarily by AASANA, Oficina de Planificacion, and its consultants Ingenieria
Politecnica Americana (Bolivian), in consultation with the Bank, took two
factors into consideration: (a) the general traffic trend, based on such
matters as future population and income growth; and (b) the additional growth
as a result of service improvements at the individual project airports. For
the latter purpose, an analysis was made of previous traffic development at
other airports in Bolivia after the introduction of jet service.
Passenger Forecast
3.08      The AASANA passenger forecast growth rates, based on historical
traffic adjusted by the Bank to reflect 1975-1976 actual traffic, generally
reflect the current traffic trend. This methodology was also used for transit
traffic at all airports. At the time of completion of the project airports,
the number of transits will reduce at Riberalta, Santa Ana de Yacuma and
Tarija. At the same time, in Riberalta, the origin and destination traffic
will be increased by a diversion of one-half the forecast traffic from
Guayaramerin. These two towns, which are only 95 km apart, are connected by
a good all-weather gravel road. The actual average growth rate has been about
15% per year. The forecast tapers this rate to about 6% between 1985 and 1990
to reflect a more mature market. For details of passenger and cargo forecasts,
see Table 4 and Annex 4.



-8-
Cargo Forecast
3.09      Cargo traffic is of comparatively minor importance on a system
basis. However, it constitutes a significant and growing portion of traffic
at three of the project airports (Riberalta, Santa Ana de Yacuma, and San
Borja). AASANA's cargo forecast growth rates were used, with an adjustment to
consider 1975 traffic. Until completion of the improvements at the project
airports, the growth is generally based on the current traffic trend. The
forecast cargo growth for the three project airports is 14% through 1980,
reducing gradually to 8% between 1985 and 1990.
Aircraft Movements
3.10      Aircraft movement forecasts (Table 5) were developed primarily by
AASANA and its consultants. These were adjusted by the Bank in line with the
traffic forecasts and with consideration of the impact of larger, more effi-
cient aircraft types.
D.   Existing Organizations
3.11      The present organization of civil aviation in Bolivia is relatively
complex for the size of the country (Chart 1). Overall control is exercised
by MTCCA, in consultation with the National Aviation Council (CNA). The
latter--which consists of the Commander of the Bolivian Air Force (FAB), the
Minister of Foreign Relations and the Minister of MTCCA--is primarily con-
cerned with the approval of new national airlines, operations, establishing of
the level and structure of national passenger and freight tariffs, bilateral
agreements for international carriers operating in and over the country and
the conditions under which airlines may operate in Bolivia. The Under-
Secretary of Civil Aviation (SAC), the entity primarily concerned with ongoing
operations of aviation in Bolivia, is supported by the Directorate General of
Civil Aviation (DGAC), the Directorate General of Air Transportation and Aerial
Works (DGTTA) and AASANA. The principal responsibility of DGAC is the setting
of safety standards for the airports and those airlines which use them, in
addition to the licensing of pilots and certification of aircraft airworthiness.
DGTTA deals with the applications for establishing new national airlines,
setting the level and structure of national passenger and freight tariffs and
arranging bilateral agreements. AASANA is the entity concerned with the
planning, construction and operation of the airport and navigation facilities
to support the air transport system. LAB, the national airline, and other
non-scheduled airlines are the principal users of these facilities. A total
of about 2,000 people are employed in the aviation sector, not counting
those in associated activities such as customs, air cargo handling, and
catering. AASANA has about 550 employees, compared with 750 for the almost
totally Government-owned airline, LAB. The remaining personnel are spread
over several small charter airlines and the two directorates (DGAC and DGTTA).
The Bolivian Air Force has long been engaged in civil air transport and,
although its civil activities have been curtailed, it continues to provide a
service on some of the uneconomic, low-density routes.



-9-
E.   The Borrower - AASANA
3.12      AASANA was created by Law No. 08019 in 1967 and formally established
on April 17, 1968 as a Government entity with operational autonomy for its
specific administrative functions. The most important of these are to admin-
ister, plan, maintain, operate and improve the network of national airports
for regular public use as well as related services to aircraft flying between
airports. To perform these functions, AASANA may enter into all types
of agreements and contracts in accordance with established legal requirements;
AASANA is exempt from taxes and duties. The legal domicile is in La Paz, but
AASANA may establish offices in other parts of the country as required. In
accordance with the Law of Public Institutions, AASANA has a Board of
Directors, but the direction and decisions regarding AASANA's daily operations
are the full responsibility of the Executive Director and the Technical
Director of AASANA.
3.13      As detailed in Chart 1, the main functions are carried out at the
headquarters, with regional airports divided into four groups. I4ore than half
of the staff is located in La Paz. The effect of an extensive reorganization
in 1975 has left AASANA with an essentially well structured organization.
However, inherent in this reorganization is the reliance on a limited number
of qualified staff members, such as the Technical Director and Department
Heads of Administration, Operations, Civil Works and Electronics. These staff
members--together with the Chiefs of Auditing, Planning, Legal and Personnel
offices--comprise the Council of Executive Coordination, which is presided
over by the Executive Director. In view of the responsibilities of the
Technical Director (described in Annex 8), an advisor is being proposed to
assist in daily operations. With these improvements, it is felt that AASANA
will be able to implement the proposed project.
3.14      Present assets of AASANA are very modest compared to the needed
investment. They consist mainly of the old assets transferred from LAB as
part of the Bolivian Government equity at the time of the creation of AASANA,
USAID capital assistance totalling US$7.3 million (the last part committed in
1968), with Bolivian Government counterpart contributions and operating sub-
sidies for several years thereafter (para. 6.04). These limited funds con-
stitute one cause of the present constraints of the borrower, which have been
partly remedied by substantial tariff increases in 1975.
3.15      Another factor is that of the limitations on staff and organization,
which again were subject to internal changes and significant salary increases
in 1975 in order to retain qualified staff in an improved administration.
Despite a more progressive management, much remains to be done in order to
improve the efficiency of the proposed borrower. Some essential technical
training has been provided by International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
experts, but management experience, particularly in implementing a large scale
investment program of civil works and electronics, is still very limited, and
it has not been possible to recruit or retain certain individual technical
staff members. It was agreed during negotiations that salaries for technical



- 10 -
specialists will be continually adjusted by AASANA in order to be competitive
with alternate employment in Bolivia. It is still too early to evaluate the
results of the reorganization, but it is clear that more experienced staff at
certain levels are required.
3.16      The operations of, and maintenance by, AASANA are closely related to
the requirements of air transportation. In the general shortcomings explained
above (para. 3.01), the lack of functioning aids and equipment for civil
aviation plays a significant part. AASANA has been slow in catching up
because of obsolete equipment. The provision of inadequate services, partic-
ularly for domestic flights, is due to managerial problems, to the lack of
sufficient numbers of specialized technical staff, and to difficulties in-
volving weather and topography. It is expected that the combination of
assistance by the Bank project and ICAO will continue to improve substantially
the maintenance of both airports and equipment.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Oblectives
4.01      The Bolivian Government is attempting to integrate the widely dis-
persed and sometimes isolated communities of the department of Beni into the
economic and social life of the country by developing a dependable air trans-
port system. To help meet this objective, the project aims at providing a
nucleus of airports in Beni which can handle larger and more efficient aircraft
than at present; developing rational countrywide systems of Navaids and air/
ground and point-to-point Com equipment; and providing technical assistance
for the administration, maintenance and operation of the airport system. The
Government wishes to improve the inadequate airport runway at Tarija, to
establish a ground maintenance capability and also to realign the runway at
Cochabamba.
B.   Description
4.02      The project would consist of:
(a)  the construction of two new domestic airports (Riberalta and
San Borja) and major improvements at two others (Santa Ana
and Tarija);
(b)  the design and supervision of construction in (a);
(c)  the provision of Navaids and Com equipment at the project air-
ports and new countrywide Navaid and Com systems;
(d) the provision of general maintenance equipment for AASANA and
runway maintenance equipment for Santa Ana Airport;



- 11 -
(e) the provision of technical assistance and staff training for
AASANA; and
(f) the provision of final design for the construction of a new
runway, apron and taxiways for the Cochabamba Airport.
Airport Construction and Improvements
4.03      A detailed description of existing conditions at the four project
airports and Cochabamba as well as the proposed construction and improvements
are given in Annex 5. Improvements are summarized in paragraphs 4.04 through
4.07 following.
4.04      Riberalta.  The construction of a new medium range jet (B-727)
airport at Riberalta would include earthworks; drainage; paved 2,000 x 45 m
runway; lead-in taxiway; apron; fuel farm; terminal building; control tower;
a maintenance/crash fire, rescue vehicle shed; fencing, access and ancillary
roads and all necessary utility systems.
4.05      San Boria.  The construction of a new turbo-prop (F-27) airport at
San Borja would be similar to that at Riberalta except that the paved runway
would be 1,800 x 30 m.
4.06      Santa Ana.  The construction of a new (F-27) runway at Santa Ana
would include earthworks; drainage; a sealed 1,800 x 30 m runway; lead-in
taxiway; apron; fuel farm; renovation of existing terminal building and tower;
a maintenance/crash fire, rescue vehicle shed; fencing and necessary access
road improvements.
4.07      Tarila.  The construction of a new (B-727) runway at Tarija would
include paving of the newly constructed 2,800 x 45 m runway, a lead-in taxiway
and apron, construction of a drainage canal around the southeast end of the
runway, and fencing. Since the base course of the new runway would be com-
pleted by February 1977, the paving and drainage should be done as soon as
possible to avoid weather damage to the new construction. Thus, the contract
for the paving is likely to be let prior to signing of the loan.
Design and Supervision of Construction
4.08      AASANA plans to engage local consultants to do the final engineering
and supervision of construction of the three Beni airports. The engineering
at Tarija has already been done, but AASANA will engage a local consultant for
the construction supervision. It is expected that the work of these consul-
tants will be satisfactory. To assist in further developing this newly
emerging local industry, as a substitute for the estimated foreign component
cost if a foreign consultant were hired, the project will provide 70% of the
total costs of design and the subsequent supervision of construction of the
three Beni airports and 70% of the cost of supervision of the construction at
Tarija Airport. Because these contracts are to be let before the proposed
loan will be presented to the Board, costs incurred for consultant services
after December 31, 1976 (estimated at US$0.7 million) are proposed to be
included in the loan.



- 12 -
4.09      Supervision of construction would be required through the last
quarter of calendar year 1981. For the sake of continuity, it would be
desirable that the consultants selected for the design work be retained for
the supervision of construction.
Design of Cochabamba Runway
4.10      The runway at Cochabamba Airport, the home airport for LAB, is so
oriented that obstructions impose weight restrictions on the larger aircraft
now being flown by LAB. Such restrictions have become an operational and
financial burden for LAB, and they will become more serious as operations
increase and larger aircraft are acquired. To alleviate this problem, a new
runway, oriented about 90 degrees from the existing one, was proposed by a
feasibility study prepared last year. A preliminary analysis by Bank staff
indicated that such a runway would be justified in the early 1980's. Con-
struction at Cochabamba is included in AASANA's program for 1979-1980.
Since it is difficult for AASANA to obtain other than operational funds from
either its revenues or the Government, 70% of the estimated costs of the
detailed final engineering design for this high priority item have been
included in the project.
Provision of Equipment
4.11      Air Navigational Aids and Communications Equipment.  At each of the
project airports except Santa Ana, Navaids (VOR/DME) 1/ would be installed as
approach and enroute aids. At all project airports, locator beacons (NDB) 2/
would be installed. New VHF 3/ air/ground and HF-SSB 4/ point-to-point voice
and teletype communications would be installed between the project airports
and system hubs at La Paz, Cochabamba and Trinidad. Other Navaids and Com
equipment would be installed at selected points to fill out complete systems
for the country (Map IBRD 12655), except for those air traffic areas con-
trolled from Santa Cruz, omitted because of lower priority and fund limita-
tions. Lists of this equipment and its locations are given in Annex 6.
Engineering for the systems would be performed by the ICAO technical assis-
tance personnel now assigned to AASANA. Design and installation of certain
teletypewriter systems would be done by the equipment manufacturer, selected
through international competitive bidding (para. 4.26).
1/   Very High Frequency Omni-Directional Radio Range/Distance Measuring
Equipment
2/   Non-Directional Radio Beacon
3/   Very High Frequency
4/   High Frequency Single Side Band



- 13 -
4.12      Visual Aids.  Runway, taxiway and apron lighting would be installed
at all project airports. At San Borja, the runway lighting would be spaced
for a 45 m wide runway rather than a 30 m one in order to allow for the
expected early widening of the runway to B-727 standards. Rotating beacons
and obstruction lights would be provided at each project airport. VASI's 1/
would be installed at project airports as well as certain other selected
airports in the country. Each of the project airports would be provided with
basic runway marking (Annex 6).
4.13      Maintenance Equipment.  For AASANA to maintain the various airports
under its control properly, equipment would be required which would have to
travel on a planned basis around the system. Since most of the airports are
unpaved, the greater portion would consist of earth moving, compaction and
grading equipment. Light asphalt spraying equipment would be stationed at
Santa Ana to maintain the sealed surface which would be provided at this
airport. Lists of both sets of equipment are given in Annex 7.
AASANA Technical Assistance and Staff Training
4.14      To strengthen its airport administration and maintenance capabil-
ities, AASANA would engage a team of five Spanish-speaking experts for the
following positions for a five-year period: Technical Director Advisor, Chief
Budget and Accounting Division, Chief Telecommunications Maintenance Division,
Chief Navaids Maintenance Division and Chief Airport Construction and Mainte-
nance Combined Divisions. Draft job descriptions for these various positions
are given in Annex 8. In addition, 30 man-years of training for AASANA per-
sonnel outside Bolivia would be provided. The foreign exchange costs of the
experts and the training would be financed from the Bank loan.
C.   Special Components of the Project
4.15      These special project items of a minor but essential support nature
are to be financed by the proposed loan, except as indicated in Annex 9.
D.   Ecology
4.16      The ecological and environmental effects of the development of the
project airports and the proposed reorientation of the main Cochabamba airport
were taken into account during the siting and preliminary design studies.
Two of the airports (Riberalta and San Borja) are being relocated to remove
them from the immediate vicinity that they serve, thus making more remote the
noise, fumes and safety problems associated with the approach and departure
paths of aircraft. Land being released at Riberalta and San Borja would
become available for further expansion of the two towns; the land being
taken in the one place is unused rain forest between river banks and, in
the other, is low lying grazing land. The Santa Ana and Tarija developments
are on existing airport land. Drainage improvements at all four airports
would reduce the possibility of stagnant, insect breeding pools.
1/   Visual Approach Slope Indicators



- 14 -
4.17      The reorientation of the main runway at Cochabamba would relocate
the heavy aircraft flight paths from over the city to over agricultural land.
The obvious effect of this is the reduction of noise for the city population,
but more important is the reduction of risk associated with the existing
requirement for aircraft to make low level turns above the city because of
high ground obstructions in the normal flight pattern. Zoning restrictions
for the new runway would be developed by the Government. A copy of a suggested
regulation will be provided to the Government.
E.   Cost Estimate
4.18      The total project cost, including contingencies, is US$39.46 million.
The foreign exchange component is US$23.67 million, or 60% of the total project
cost. This project is exempt from taxes and duties (para. 3.12).
4.19      The cost estimate shown below (in prices expected at the end of
June 1977) is categorized by type of work. A detailed itemization of the
project components is given in Table 6.
% of
$b (million)              US$ (million)           Project
Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Content
Civil Works                175.9     225.2    401.1    8.80    11.26    20.06         50.8
Engineering Design and
Supervision              32.1        8.0      40.1    1.60       .40      2.00       5.1
Aviation Equipment          11.8       70.4     82.2      .59     3.52      4.11      10.4
Maintenance Equipment        1.6       15.8     17.4      .08       .79      .87       2.2
Technical Assistance         7.6      22.7      30.3      .38     1.14      1.52       3.9
Training                      .2        4.6      4.8      .01      .23       .24        .6
Cochabamba Design           16.0       4.0      20.0      .80       .20     1.00       2.5
Contingencies:
Physical 10%            20.9       36.7      57.6    1.05      1.83      2.88       7.3
Price 22.8%             49.7       86.0    135.7    2.48       4.30      6.78      17.2
Total                     315.8      473.4    789.2   15.79    23.67    39.46    100.0
4.20      The cost estimates were developed originally by the engineering con-
sultants responsible for the feasibility studies. They were updated during the
appraisal by AASANA engineers using known costs in the various localities.
These costs are considered reasonable. Construction at Tarija and Santa Ana
would take place on the existing airport property. The land at Riberalta has
already been transferred to AASANA by the town at no cost, and the land at San
Borja would be purchased by AASANA. This is not expected to delay the project.
Land cost is included in the estimates of local costs.
4.21      Physical contingencies amounting to 10% have been included in the
cost estimate. An additional item for price contingencies, of an average of



- 15 -
7.70% on the local component and 7.75% on the foreign component, compounded
quarterly, has been included to allow for anticipated increases in labor and
material costs, which, in this case, are approximately equal. Foreign compo-
nent contingencies are slightly lower than those in the Bank guidelines
because of expected lower equipment cost escalation.
F.   Execution
4.22      The project would be executed by AASANA.  The civil works contracts
for Tarija are expected to be awarded prior to signing of the loan. The
civil works contracts for Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana are expected to
be awarded by October 1978. The work is expected to take about one and one-
half years at Tarija and to provide employment for about 150 men. The work
at the other three airports would take about three years and would provide
employment for about 500 men each at Riberalta and San Borja and 250 at Santa
Ana. Tarija is expected to be completed by January 1979, followed by Riberalta,
San Borja and Santa Ana by December 1981. The technical assistance portion
of the project would run through September 1982.
4.23      AASANA would handle all Navaid and Com equipment procurement without
assistance from consultants. Part of this equipment would be installed by
AASANA and part by the equipment manufacturers.
4.24      AASANA would administer the 25 man-year technical assistance portion
of the loan and also the 30 man-year training component. During negotiations,
job descriptions for these positions were agreed upon (para. 4.14 and Annex 8).
A training program should be prepared by AASANA and its technical experts,
after their engagement, to begin no later than October 1978 and to last
for a period of three years.
4.25      During negotiations, a project implementation schedule was agreed.
The estimate of project execution is given in Annex 10.
G.   Procurement
4.26      Contracts for civil works (earthworks, paving, drainage, water and
electrical supply and distribution, sewerage, buildings, etc.) at Riberalta,
San Borja and Santa Ana airports, and visual aids, Navaid and Com equipment
and installation would be awarded after international competitive bidding by
prequalified contractors. Since equipment is not produced locally, no local
suppliers are expected, but local bidders would be granted a margin of prefer-
ence by adding 15% to the CIF value of foreign bids (or the applicable customs
duties, whichever is lower).
4.27      Although the paving contract at Tarija would be awarded prior to the
signing of the loan documents (para. 4.07), it would be awarded in accordance
with the Bank "Guidelines for Procurement," but after only limited advertise-
ment because of the urgency of the work and the remote character of the proj-
ect location. Foreign contractors are not excluded. The drainage contract
was added to the existing civil works contract proper at unit costs established
in April 1975. The original contract was awarded in accordance with Bank
"Guidelines," but after only local advertisement. In view of the urgency of
the work, the relative smallness of the contract and the favorable prices,



- 16 -
Bank financing for this contract would be justified. Because these contracts
were or will be let before the proposed loan will be presented to the Board,
costs incurred after February 28, 1977 (estimated at US$1.0 million) are
proposed to be included in the loan. The engineering contract (an estimated
40 man-years at US$50,000 per year) for the design and supervision of the
construction of the four project airports would also be awarded, prior to
signing of the loan, to local Bolivian engineers. The award of the estimated
20 man-year contract (at US$50,000 per year) for the engineering for Cocha-
bamba would be similar, except that it would not be awarded until after
signing of the loan. Consultants' terms of reference and contracts should be
acceptable to the Bank.
4.28      A negotiated contract for 25 man-years at an estimated US$50,000
per man-year would be executed by AASANA for the provision of the five-man
technical assistance team. Training would be arranged individually through
UNDP/ICAO or technical training schools at rates not exceeding approximately
US$6,000 per year per candidate.
H.   Disbursements
4.29      Disbursement of funds from the loan would be on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and its instal-
lation;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance and
training;
(c) 56% of total expenditures for civil works; and
(d)  70% of total expenditures for engineering services.
A schedule showing the estimated rate of disbursement is given in Table 7.
Retroactive financing of civil works undertaken after February 28, 1977 up to
US$1.0 million and of engineering services after December 31, 1976 up to
US$0.7 million, for a total of US$1.7 million, is proposed.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      In Bolivia, the need for air transport is greatly reinforced by the
topography of the country. The summary and conclusions of the latest trans-
port sector report for Bolivia are given in Annex 11. The presence of flat
lowlands partly flooded and isolated for several months each year, separated
by high mountain ranges from the most populated part of Bolivia, creates
formidable obstacles for any development of transport. These lowlands,
particularly in the northeast, will have to be developed over an extensive
period in order to relieve the population pressure on the barren Altiplano.
A main solution has been attempted in the development of the present road



- 17 -
from La Paz to the Yungas (eastern valleys), crossing over one of the highest
passes in the Andean mountain range (4,600 meters). Despite heavy investment,
it will be many years before this road can penetrate into more than a small
part of the department of Beni, and, more important, be reliable under all-
weather conditions.
5.02      To integrate this part of the country, the primary transport modes
would have to continue to be river transport for bulk goods and air transport
for passengers and for valuable and/or perishable goods. Air transport to
this area has not changed character in many years due to the infrastructure
limitations. Only one airport in the area, Trinidad (since 1975), is capable
of receiving more cost-effective jet aircraft. The most important part of the
proposed project, therefore, addresses the problem of improving air transport
to the main centers by providing better airports. When making agricultural
loans, the Bank has recognized the lack of adequate airports as a limitation
to the growth of the cattle industry.
5.03      A similar, but not quite so serious, situation exists in the south,
where Tarija is the main town, 935 km from La Paz, with poor road connections.
5.04      Another main part of the proposed project is the improvement of the
general infrastructure for air navigation in Bolivia, where obsolete naviga-
tional aids and aeronautical communications create not only hazardous safety
conditions but also high costs in the form of low aircraft utilization, many
cancelled and delayed flights and other indirect effects of unreliable ser-
vices.
5.05      The proposed project responds to the most urgent needs of a rela-
tively large program of well justified aviation infrastructure improvements
(para. 6.13).
5.06      The areas in Bolivia which will be served primarily are the towns
of San Borja, Santa Ana de Yacuma and Riberalta - Guayaramerin in the northern
part with a total population of about 50,000 and Tarija in the south with about
the same population. These are both relatively poorly developed agricultural
areas which have suffered from isolation from the rest of Bolivia. The main
activities are cattle raising in Beni (Santa Ana and San Borja), exploitation
of rubber and nuts at Riberalta and grains, vegetables and vineyards around
Tarija. Of these four towns, only Tarija is connected by road to other parts
of Bolivia. The road under construction from La Paz to San Borja and Trinidad
will probably be usable only part of the year until it can be upgraded to an
all-weather road--an undertaking which may take a long time. Santa Ana and
Riberalta are likely to be without road connection to the rest of Bolivia for
at least another 15 years.
B.   Economic Analysis
5.07      Details of the economic analysis are set forth in Annex 12 and are
summarized below. Since air transport is clearly essential for the development
of these isolated areas of Bolivia, the economic case for the project depends
on its ability to provide transport capacity more efficiently than do the exist-
ing air services. The construction and equipment costs, as well as the physical
contingencies, have been included as an economic cost of the project.



- 18 -
5.08      The major source of quantifiable benefits for the project airports
is the much lower operating cost of more efficient aircraft, already in the
fleet, which these airports would allow after the improvement. Other factors
which have been considered are aircraft delay savings and values of released
urban land where the airport has been moved to a new site. These are very
small portions of the justification since the most important factor - increased
reliability of services - can be quantified only with respect to improved
utilization of aircraft. Without the project, higher aircraft operating costs
could lead to airline tariff increases or service deterioration. No passenger
or cargo time savings have been included.
C.   Cost Savings
5.09      Transport cost savings over the routes from each airport were cal-
culated per passenger or ton based on the unit cost differential between better
aircraft and presently used aircraft (Annex 12 and Table 8). This situation
differs among the airports. In the cases of Riberalta and Tarija, the air-
craft are now F-27, to be replaced by B-727-100 for passengers and 50% of the
air cargo. For San Borja and Santa Ana, the situation is more complex.
Presently, passenger traffic has been handled by F-27 and DC-3 aircraft
and cargo by a variety of aircraft, with the predominant being DC-3 and
Curtiss C-46 piston-engine aircraft carrying 3 to 6 tons per trip. The most
appropriate replacement aircraft for future cargo traffic, in particular,
is difficult to establish in view of the fragmentation of the air cargo
trade into 25 different companies with an attendant lack of long-term planning.
It is expected, however, that the existing piston aircraft will be replaced
by small jet or turbo-prop aircraft for passengers and a turbo-prop aircraft,
such as the CONVAIR CV-580, for cargo. For the economic evaluation and
traffic forecasts, this aircraft has been used for providing cost character-
istics and capacity.
5.10      A serious problem for Bolivian aviation is the lack of a reliable
aeronautical communications network and air navigational aids. This lack,
together with the runway conditions at the project airports, has caused very
poor regularity for both scheduled and non-scheduled air services. In 1975,
as an example, more than 1,500 hours of aircraft time were lost for LAB DC-3
and F-27 aircraft in delays and cancelled flights; this is almost equivalent
to a requirement for one additional aircraft. Some of these delays would still
continue as a result of weather conditions, but a significant reduction of
hours lost to the level now achieved by B-727 aircraft at the four main air-
ports should be possible.
5.11      A similar limitation exists, particularly for the airports in Beni,
because of the lack of a properly-equipped unit for runway preventive mainte-
nance. In the rainy season, a number of AASANA airports are out of service
because of the condition of their runways. Some closures during heavy rains
or inundation are unavoidable, but certain aircraft delays and cancellations
would be avoided by improved runway maintenance. This type of savings could
be quantified only for LAB scheduled flights and, thus, underestimates these
benefits considerably in view of the present large volume of non-scheduled
flights in Beni.



- 19 -
D.   Project Return
5.12      Excluding any savings of passenger time or cargo spoilage, the total
return of the project is 19% (for project benefits, see Table 9); this approxi-
mates the discounted cash flow financial return for the combined airport-
airline system as far as these airports and airway facilities are concerned.
For San Borja and Santa Ana, part of the savings accrue to private cargo
airlines, but, for the major part of the project investment, the main bene-
ficiary is the Bolivian Government, through its almost complete ownership of
LAB. Since, without the project, it would probably be necessary to make
larger fare increases, some of the benefits would be passed on to the Bolivian
users.
5.13      Based on quantified benefits, the best estimate of economic return
for San Borja and Riberalta is 24% for each, for Tarija 15%, and for Santa
Ana de Yacuma 12%. There are substantial unquantified benefits, for Santa Ana
in particular. This community is, and for many years will remain, isolated
except by river. The present closures of the airport have serious effects on
the unscheduled flights, but, because of lack of adequate data, only delays to
scheduled flights have been quantified. The return for the aeronautical
communications and electronic aids is 18%, and, for the runway maintenance
equipment, the return is 16%.
5.14      The results of the sensitivity analysis for all the project compo-
nents are shown in Table 10. Cost increases are considered the most signif-
icant risk. However, even if costs increase by 15%, the overall rate is
still 17%. The effect of road improvements to San Borja has been tested under
various assumptions. The most serious, but unlikely, assumption of no air
cargo at all after 1985 still gives an economic return of 14% at this airport.
The first year return of the total project is almost 17% and is satisfactory
for the individual project components.
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Existing Situation
6.01      AASANA has essentially been a breakeven entity in recent years,
covering only working expenses. It operates under a budgetary system whereby
a general budget of anticipated revenues and working expenses is developed and
submitted to the Ministry of Finance for approval. Any unusual expenditures
outside the budget must receive prior Government approval.
6.02      AASANA maintains control over revenues and operating expenses.
Revenues collected are deposited in the AASANA account, and checks for pay-
ment are drawn against this account. Any excess of revenues remains with
AASANA.



- 20 -
6.03      Accounting records of the revenue and expenditure items are kept at
AASANA headquarters. The records are not maintained so that revenues and
expenses can be readily identified by airport and type of service but, rather,
for the system in total. However, the Bank staff was able to obtain a reason-
able breakdown of revenues and expenses for the project airports for 1975.
6.04      Capital items are supplied for the most part directly by the
Government as equity inputs, with additional assistance by USAID. However,
the receipt of assets from LAB, approximately eight years ago, and subsequent
investment, as reflected in AASANA's books, may be understated to some extent.
Due to this fact and to the inconsistent treatment of assets and liabilities
from one year to the next in the balance sheets, it is currently difficult to
make a proper assessment of AASANA's financial posture. After analyzing
available information, the Bank staff prepared balance sheets for 1970 through
1974 (Table 11). A high percentage of the assets at small airports have been
in service beyond what is normally considered the economic life for such items
and should be replaced in the immediate future.
6.05      The accounting system is inadequate and should be redesigned to
supply information by individual airports and by classifications necessary to
formulate and review user charges. Following these improvements, the struc-
ture and level of airport tariffs should be reviewed. The accounting system
should also include provision for the proper valuation and disposal of assets.
AASANA realizes these deficiencies and needs assistance for improvement in
this area. This assistance would be provided by a foreign expert to be
engaged as Chief of the Budget and Accounting Division (para. 4.14). It was
agreed during negotiations that AASANA would consult periodically with the
Bank on structure and level of airport tariffs.
6.06      The accounts are currently subject to review by the Government at
irregular intervals. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with
AASANA that certified copies of the audited annual accounts beginning with the
year ending December 31, 1978 would be furnished to the Bank, not later than
four months after the end of each calendar year, by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Financial Objectives
6.07      Government policy has been to maintain AASANA's tariffs at a low
level in order to assist aviation development. However, in 1975, landing fees
were increased for LAB and foreign carriers by 60%; for non-scheduled carriers
and general aviation, they remained at previous levels. At the same time,
salaries of AASANA personnel were increased by an average of 60% to compensate
for the cumulative effect of inflation and in accordance with reorganization
efforts to maintain qualified personnel. These circumstances have made it
barely possible for AASANA to cover working expenses. As a result, the new
infrastructure requirements would have to continue to be met by the Government
and outside sources. In the future, any surplus resulting from AASANA oper-
ations could be applied to acquisition of capital assets. Agreement was



- 21 -
reached with the Government and AASANA regarding more specific financial
objectives of a k-nd typical for a prudently managed independent public
agency, as further described below. The financial projections contained in
the following paragraphs reflect these objectives and assumptions.
6.08      AASANA revised its scheduled service landing fee tariffs in 1975,
and the Bank has discussed with AASANA the need for a prompt increase in user
charges. However, the current level of tariffs will not be sufficient to
cover the operating expenses for the project period (1977-1981). Therefore,
it has been assumed in the projections in this report that future tariff
increases would result in total revenues being increased by 20% in 1977, 20%
in 1979, 10% in 1980, 10% in 1982 and 10% in 1984. It was agreed during
negotiations that, before November 1 of each fiscal year, a review of user
charges will be made on the basis of realistic traffic forecasts, and such
adjustments as are necessary will be applied in order to attain an overall
working ratio of no more than 75% in 1978, 60% in 1979-1982, and a return on
revalued net fixed assets no less than 2% in 1983-1984 and no less than 4% in
1985. Due to the scale of investment in a few years, the project airports
cannot meet the rate of return covenant, but it was agreed that the combined
working ratio for the project airports would be no more than 85% in 1985.
C.   Financial Plan
6.09      The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$39.46 million,
of which approximately 64% of the financing would be in the form of a Bank
loan to AASANA. The balance, including any cost overruns, would be equity
provided by the Government.
US$
$b Million          Million
a.   Bank loan to AASANA                        500.00            25.00
b.   Government Equity                          289.20            14.46
789.20            39.46
6.10      It was agreed during negotiations that the Bank will be consulted
before any investment in any of AASANA's facilities of over US$1.0 million, in
any one year, is undertaken.
D.   Financial Prolections
Operating Results
6.11      AASANA operating revenues by category for 1975, and projected through
1990, are set out in Table 12, and the projected operating statements are given



- 22 -
in Table 13. Financial assumptions are detailed in Annex 13. Summarized
forecast results for 1977, 1980, 1985 and 1990 are as follows:
1977     1980      1985      1990
---------- $b Million ---------
Revenue                            93.7    170.7    311.5    419.9
Expenses                           75.7      98.4    112.0    124.5
Operating Surplus                18.0      72.3    199.5    295.4
Depreciation                       32.9      69.3      94.5    101.3
Operating Income/(Loss)         (14.9)      3.0    105.0    194.1
Interest                              -      21.8      32.3      19.1
Net Profit/(Loss)               (14.9)   (18.8)    72.7    175.0
Throughout the projection period, revenues cover all working expenses, includ-
ing depreciation, with the exception of 1977 and 1978.  The years of 1980 and
1981 barely meet this goal.  This occurs because three of the four project
airports and other Government investments are completed in these years, and
the increase in the depreciation provision is not immediately compensated by
comparable traffic and tariff increases. However, depreciation exceeds debt
service, and the financial objectives would be met in all years of the project
(para 6.08).
6.12      The projected operating results of the four project airports are set
out in Tables 14, 15, 16 and 17. All project airports develop sufficient
traffic to generate revenue greater than working expenses by 1984; however,
none of the airports would be able to cover operating expenses after project
completion. Non-project airports would receive increased revenues in the form
of increased landing and navigational fees, as a result of the project. The
financial objectives for the project airports would be met after 1984 (para.
6.08).
Cash Flow
6.13      A projected cash flow for AASANA, based on the assumptions contained
in paragraph 6.09, is shown in Table 18. Provision has been made for the
replacement of assets included in the project, when required, and for the
addition of other necessary items (para 6.04). A summary of the cash flow for
the construction period is set out below:



- 23 -
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
S_____-----$b Million------
Source of Funds
From Operations                            13.5   22.7   47.0   67.9   82.3  112.4
Loan - World Bank                         26.8   73.0   88.3  248.7   52.7    9.2
Government Equity - Project               50.0   42.0  103.0   67.6   25.2    1.3
Government Equity - Non-Project /1    157.2   59.9  348.0  285.6   83.5   54.2
Government Equity - For Cash
Requirements                            48.2       -   33.5        -      -       -
Total       295.7  197.6  619.8  669.8  243.7  177.1
Application of Funds
Capital Investments A1                   282.8  189.0  606.2  645.9  206.6  105.1
Loans - Principal                             -      -       -       -       -   32.2
Interest                             -    7.8   12.7   21.8   36.4   39.5
Total       282.8  196.8  618.9  667.7  243.0  176.8
Cash Surplus                               12.9     .8      .9    2.1       .7     .3
Opening Balance                               -   12.9   13.7   14.6   16.7   17.4
Closing Balance         12.9   13.7   14.6   16.7   17.4   17.7
/1   Includes airport investments in addition to proposed project which are
as follows for 1977-1980 ($b million): La Paz 303.2, Cochabamba
273.5, Cobija 221.3, Sucre 155.0, and others 56.4. The difference from
the total for Government Equity, Non-Project, is the result of equity
inputs from AASANA due to its favorable cash position in 1978 and 1980-
1982.
Since current receivables and liabilities are relatively high (Table 11),
it was agreed, at the time of negotiations, that receivables from operating
revenues will be collected, and payables for working expenses will be paid,
within 90 days.
Balance Sheets
6.14      Projected balance sheets for 1977-1990 have been prepared and are
included in Table 19. Financial indicators are shown in Table 20.



- 24 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
regarding the following:
(a) assets for a new Santa Cruz airport not to be transferred
to, nor debt service cost borne by, AASANA until it can be
demonstrated that such a transfer will not prevent AASANA
from complying with the relevant financial covenants of the
Loan Agreement (para. 2.16);
(b) salaries for technical specialists to be continually adjusted
by AASANA in order to be competitive with alternate employment
in Bolivia (para. 3.15);
(c) job descriptions for technical assistance and training
components of the loan (para. 4.24);
(d) project implementation schedule (para. 4.25);
(e) AASANA to consult periodically with the Bank on the struc-
ture and level of airport tariffs (para. 6.05);
(f) certified copies of the audited annual accounts beginning
with the year ending December 31, 1978 to be furnished to
the Bank, not later than four months after the end of each
calendar year, by independent auditors satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 6.06);
(g) before November 1 of each fiscal year, a review of user
charges to be made on the basis of realistic traffic
forecasts, and tariffs to be adjusted as necessary to
produce a working ratio of no more than 75% in 1978, 60%
in 1979-1982, and return on revalued net fixed assets no
less than 2% in 1983-1984 and no less than 4% in 1985 and
thereafter (para. 6.08);
(h) combined working ratio of the project airports to be no
more than 85% by 1985 and thereafter (para. 6.08);
(i) the Bank to be consulted before any investment in any of
AASANA's facilities of over US$1.0 million, in any one
year, is undertaken (para. 6.10); and
(j) receivables from operating revenues to be collected, and
payables for working expenses to be paid, within 90 days
(para. 6.13).



- 25 -
7.02      Retroactive financing for the foreign costs (estimated at US$1.0
million) for the paving and the construction of the drainage canal at Tarija
done after February 28, 1977 and for local and foreign costs for engineering
services at the three Beni airports and Tarija incurred after December 31,
1976 (estimated at US$0.7 million) is included in the proposed loan.
7.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan
of US$25.0 million to AASANA, with a Government guarantee. The term would be
20 years, including a grace period of four and one-half years.
April 28, 1977






BOLIVIA
AVIATION l)EVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Freight Movement in Bolivia
1967                           1974
Ton-Km      %          %        Ton-Km         %         %                Sources
10     Subtotal    Total         10       Subtotal  Total
Data for 1967 based on the DMJM
ROAD TRANSPORT                                                                                Study for the Ministerio de Trans-
portes y Comunicaciones. Vata for
Minerals                        46 500       4.9       1.5                               -    1974 came from the following
Other Cargo                    549 700      58.1      18.1         -          -         -    sources:
Mini. de Transportes y
Total                       596 200      63.0     19.6       896 464       65.1     16.3             Comunicaciones Estimate
RAIL TRANSPORT
Minerals                        84 900       9.0       2.8        45 300       3.3       0.8
Other Cargo                    208 700      22.1       6.9      342 700       24.9       6.2            ENFE
Total                       293 600      31.1       9.7      388 000      28.2       7.0
RIVER TRANSPORT                 11 400       1.2       0.4        24 480       1.8       0.5            Min. de Transportes y
Comunicaciones Estimate
LAKE TRANSPORT                  31 400       3.3       1.0        31 700       2.3       0.6            Min. de Transportes y
Communicaciones Estimate
AIR TRANSPORT                   13 300       1.4       0.4        35 378       2.6       0.6
Subtotal                  945 900    100.0       31.1    1 376 022    100.0        25.0
PIPELINE TRINSPORT
Crude Oil                    1 923 000       -        63.1    3 747 000        -        68.2
Petroleum Products          _ 176 000                  5.8      376 000       -          6.8            YPFB
Total                   3 044 900               100.0    5 499 022        -       lOo.0  Average growth rate 1967/1974,
08.8? yearly
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977                                                                                                                   1



BOLIVIA                                 TABLE 2
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Comparative Economy Air Fares, 1.976
US$
Route                                      Distance             US$         Per Mile
(Miles)
Bolivia
La Paz - Santa Cruz                          343               40.00          .117
Cochabamba - Tarija                          303               27.00          .089
La Paz -- Trinidad                           257               18.00          .070
Cochabamba - Trinidad                        204               15.00          .074
Cochabamba - Santa Cruz                      198               20.00          .101
Cochabamba - La Paz                          150               20.00          .133
San Borja - Trinidad                         130                6.00          .046
Santa Ana - Trinidad                          87                5.00          .057
Cochabamba - Oruro                            74                8.00          .108
Brazil
Rio de Janeiro - Sao Paulo                   237               28.90          .1219
Rio de Janeiro - Belo Horizonte              214               27.60          .1280
Rio de Janeiro - Porto Alegre                697               84.60          .1214
Canada
Fredericton - Montreal                       350               68.00          .194
Edmonton - Peace River                       253               37.00          .146
Calgary - Medicine Hat                       164               22.00          .134
C31-bia
Bogota - Cartagena                           409              29.00           .0709
Bogota - Medellin                            145              14.00           .0965
Bogota - Leticia                             675              60.00           .0889
Peru
Lima - Pucallpa                              307              31.80           .1036
Lima - Tingo Maria                           206              21.00           .1019
Lima - Cuzco                                 357              37.70           .1056
United Kingdom
Glasgow - London                             349              60.00           .172
East Midlands - Jersey                       254              49.00           .193
Aberdeen - Edinburgh                          98              26.10           .266
United States of America
Cincinnati - Atlanta                         374              48.15          .129
El Paso - Tucson                             269              38.89           .145
New York - Washington                        203              34.26           .169
Bangor - Presque Isle                        136              25.00          .184
Albany - Rutland                              70              24.07           .344
Source: ABC World Airways Guide, March 1976
November 1976



TABLE 3
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Names and Abbreviations of Airports
Apolo                                            AP
Ascencion de Guarayos                            AS
Camiri                                           CA
Cobija                                           CO
Cochabamba                                       CB
Concepcion                                       CP
Charafia                                         CN
Guayaramerdn                                     GY
La Paz                                           LP
Magdalena                                        MG
Oruro                                            OR
Puerto Suarez                                    PS
Potosl                                           PO
Riberalta                                        RI
Robore-                                          RB
Rurrenabaque                                     RQ
San Borja                                        SB
San Ignacio de Moxos                             SM
San Ignacio de Velasco                           SI
San Javier                                       JV
San Joaquin                                      Jo
San Jose de Chiquitos                            JE
San Ram6n                                        RA
Santa Ana                                        SA
Santa Cruz                                       CZ
Sucre                                            SU
Tarija                                           TJ
Trinidad                                         TR
Yacuiba                                          YA
Bermejo                                          BJ (X)
Puerto Rico                                      PR (X)
Reyes                                            RY (X)
San Matlas                                       TI (X)
Santa Rosa                                       SR (X)
Villa Montes                                     VM (X)
(X) Airports which will be under AASANA Jurisdiction.
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977



TABLE 4
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Passengers (Embarking and Disembarking) and Freight
at Project Airports
Airport                                                                            Pc
Passengers                                Percent
Average Annual
Actual                Forecast                          Growth
1970    1975      1977    1980       1985      1990    1975-1990
Riberalta               7,600   13,600   17,500   38,300   57,400   76,700           12
Santa Ana de Yacuma    4,400    9,000   12,000   18,900   32,400   43,600           11
San Borja               1,700    5,100    6,100    8,800   14,600   19,600          10
Tarija                  8,500   18,200   24,300   41,500   69,900   96,300          12
Airport                                   Freight   (tons)                         Percent
Actual                 Forecast                      Average Annual
Growth
1970     1975      1977    1980       1985      1990    1975-1990
Riberalta                 5604'5-1,840    2,650    4,197        6,759    9,931      12
Santa Ana de Yacuma    1,6504/  1,166    1,360    1,983         3,483    5,118      10
San Borja               2,935    4,706    5,489    8,003    14,060   20,659         10
Tarija3/
1/ Apparent abnormal growth at Riberalta from 1977 to 1980 results from the introduction
of jet aircraft and diversion of one half of the projected normal traffic growth
from Guayaramerin.
2/ Includes non-scheduled traffic. Scheduled traffic will move in passenger
aircraft.
3/ No significant freight traffic is anticipated at Tarija.
4/ 1971.
5/ LAB flights only.
Source: AASANA and its consultants and IBRD Mission
December 1976



TABLE 5
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Aircraft Traffic
Annual Landings
1975       1980           1985           1990
Riberalta
Passenger1/               607        407            611           816
Cargo-4                   251        187            302           404
5/
Other--                 2,386      4,791          7,812         10,457
Santa Ana de Yacuma
Passenger2/               333        638            604            813
Cargo- 4                  162        177            311            416
Other-51                4,688      7,529         10,547         13,458
San Boria
Passenger-                189        156            260            260
Cargo-1                   917        715          1,255         1,679
Other- /                3,259      6,531         10,503         13,752
Tariia
Passenger-/               570        575            968         1,334
Other-/                   655      1,362          2,562          4,681
1/  Based on passenger growth and on changes from DC-3 and F-27 to B-737
and B-727.
2/  Based on passenger growth and on changes from DC-3-and F-27 to F-27 or
similar aircraft type thru 1984 and B-737 and F-27 thereafter.
3/ Based on passenger growth' and on changes from DC-3 and F-27 to B-737 and F-27.
4/ Based on freight growth and on changes from C-47 and C-46 to CV-580.
Assumes 50% of Riberalta freight will move on passenger jet
aircraft by 1980.
5/  Includes Air Taxi, Private, TAM, FAB and Flying School Landings.
Source: IBRD Mission
December 1976



TABLE 6
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimates
$b (000)                         US$ (000)
Local    Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works
Riberalta           46,280    78,040   124,320        2,314      3,902       6,216
San Borja           44,479    60,221   104,700        2,224      3,011       5,235
Santa Ana           46,231    37,049    83,280        2,312      1,852       4,164
Tarija              38,903    49,857    88,760        1,945      2,493       4,438
Subtotal       175,893   225,167   401,060        8,795    11,258       20,053
Eng. design
& Supervision       32,096      8,024    40,120       1,605        401       2,006
Equipment
Lights, VASIS &
Tower Equip.        2,310    23,110    25,420          116      1,155       1,271
Navaids and
Communications      9,460    47,300    56,760          473      2,365       2,838
Maintenance
equipment           1,376    13,724    15,100           69        686         755
Santa Ana
equipment             204      2,036      2,240         10        102         112
Subtotal        13,350    86,170    99,520          668      4,308      4,976
Contingencies on
Construction and
Equipment
Physical 10%         20,157    33,923    54,080        1,008      1,696       2,704
Price 22.8%          49,672    86,068   135,740        2,484      4,303       6,787
Tech. Assistance      7,582    22,727    30,309          379      1,136       1,515
Training                 200     4,545      4,745         10        227         237
Subtotal         7,782    27,272    35,054          389     1,363       1,752
Contingencies TA
& Training 10%          778     2,728      3,506         39        137        176
Cochabamba design   16,000       4,000    20,000         800        200      1,000
Total          315.728   473.352   789,08,0   15,788    23,666         39,454
Price Contingencies, Rates per Year
1978     1979    1980   1981
Foreign   10.0%    8.0%    7.0%   6.0%
Local      8.4%    8.0%    7.5%   7.0%
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977



TABLE 7
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
FY78                                                      13US$(000)
December 1977                                               1,342
March 1978                                                  2,904
June 1978                                                   3,781
FY79
September 1978                                             4,370
December 1978                                               4,992
March 1979                                                  5,669
June 1979                                                   6,877
FY80
September 1979                                             8,496
December 1979                                               9,408
March 1980                                                 10,628
June 1980                                                 14,633
FY81
September 1980                                            18,875
December 1980                                             21,842
March 1981                                                22,440
June 1981                                                 22,586
FY82
September 1981                                            22,669
December 1981                                             24,475
March 1982                                                24,563
June 1982                                                 24,811
FY83
September 1982                                            24,874
December 1982                                             24,937
March 1983                                                25,000
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977



TABLE 8
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Aircraft Cost Savings in 1981
Savings Per
Passenger        Cost Saving
Passenger Aircraft                   Passengers          US$                US$
Tarija                                31,600             20.55           649,380
Riberalta                             41,500             15.39           638,685
San Borja                              9,770              7.29            71,223
Santa Ana de Yacuma                   22,600              6.27           141,702
Cargo Aircraft                          Tons          Savings Per
Ton Cargo US$
Riberalta                              2,200            309.36           680,592
San Borja                              8,960            120.51         1,079,770
Santa Ana de Yacuma                    2,380             83.10           197,778
Delays/Diversions                     Cost Per          Hours of
Hour US$       Aircraft Time
Tarija                                   427               122            52,094
Riberalta                                427               312           133,224
San Borja                                407               526           214,082
Santa Ana de Yacuma                      427               136            58,072
Aeronautical Communications              337             1,089           366,993
Runway Maintenance Equipment             337               587           197,819
4,481,414
Source: LAB, AASANA, DGTTA, Mission Estimates
February 1977



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Quantified Project Benefits 1978-1998 US$ (000)
Riberalta                           Santa Ana de Yacuma       Aeronautical        Runway
Tarija    Aircraft    Land Value    San Borja    Aircraft    Maintenance    Communications    Maintenance    Total
1978       421                                                                                                             421
1979       526        -                                        -                            -                 -            526
1980       632     1,330           -           1,220          -             -              334                90         3,606
1981       701     1,452          600          1,365         398           100             367               198         5,181
1982       779     1,586           -           1,527         444           100             404               222         5,062
1983       864     1,731           -           1,709         494           100             445               248         5,591
1984       959     1,891           -           1,912         552           100             489               278         6,181
1985     1,065     2,064           -           2,139         615           100             538               312         6,833
1986     1,134     2,209           -           2,306         658           100             592                -          6,999
1987     1,208     2,364           -           2,485         704           100             651                -          7,512
1988     1,286     2,531           -           2,679         754           100             716                -          8,066
1989     1,370     2,709           -           2,887         807           100             788                -          8,661
1990     1,459     2,900           -           3,113         864           100             866                -          9,302
1991     1,553     3,104           -           3,356         925           100              -                 -          9,038
1992     1,655     3,324           -              -          990           100              -                 -          6,069
1993     1,762     3,559           -              -        1,061           100              -                 -          6,482
1994     1,877     3,811           -              -        1,136           100              -                 -          6,924
1995     1,999     4,082           -              -        1,216           100              -                 -          7,397
1996     2,129     4,372           -              -        1,303           100              -                 -          7,904
1997     2,267     4,683           -              -        1,395           100              -                 -          8,445
1998     2,415     5,017           -              -        1,495           100                                -          9,027
Source: Mission Estimates, AASANA
December 1976
'IC



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return
Best        Construction Costs                Benefits               First years
Estimate          -15%    +15%              -25%        +25%              return
Tarija                 15              18       14               12           19                13 l/
Riberalta              24              28       22               19           29                20
San Borja              24              28       21               18           29                20
Santa Ana de                                                                                       1/
Yacuma               12              14       10                9           15                12
Aeronautical
communications       18              23       15               10           26                13
Runway mainte-
nance equipment      16              22       11                6           24                24
Total Project          19              22       17               15           24                17
1/  First year return has been adjusted to take into account the effects of generated traffic.
Source:  IBRD Mission                                                                                      H|
April 1977



I1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AASANA
Summary Balance Sheets as of December 31
($b 000)
Assets                               1970      1971    1972       1973       1974
Current Assets
Cash                                    259      240    2,037    4,219        3,666
Short Term Invest-4ients                356        50       20        13        478
Prepaid Items                           130       265      225       235        288
Subtotal                       745       555    2,282    4,467       4,432
Receivables                          5,253    7,315    8,479   15,123    25,407
Inventories                          4,760    7,221    7,755   15,907    26,971
Total Current Assets        10,758   15,091   18,516   35,497    56,810
Fixed Assets - Gross                    61,253   60,728   61,091  106,450   145,226
Less Accumulated Depreciation        4,528    5,778    9,120   12,909    16,578
Net Fixed Assets                        56,725   54,950   51,971   93,541   128,648
Construction in Progress              -            6      -          568     3,941
Total Fixed Assets          56,725   54,956   51,971   94,109   132,589
Total Assets                67,483   70,047   70,487  129,606   189,399
Liabilities
Current                             2,712    4,653    4,981    5,792    13,937
Deferred                            1,480    2,151    2,738    3,447        4,581
Capital and Reserves
(Closing - December 31)                63,291   63,243   62,768  120,367   170,881
Total Liabilities           67,483   70,047   70,487  129,606   189,399
Source: IBRD Mission
February 1977



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AASANA
Statement of Revenues
($b Million)
Funds          1/
Passenger                                                    from National Treasury"
Year End    Landing       Airport   Overflight  Navigational                          Landing   Navigational
December 31      Fees         Tax         Fees          Fees       Messages   Other       Fees          Fees        Total Revenue
1975           27.5         11.9         4.5           2.7          2.9        3.9      1.8             .8             56.0
1976           34.1         15.8         4.6           2.7          4.4        4.6      2.0             .9             69.1
1977           46.6         21.8         5.9           3.8          6.0        5.9      2.6            1.1             93.7
1978           52.6         24.8         6.2           4.2          6.7        6.4      2.9            1.2            105.0
1979           71.2         33.5         7.9           5.7          8.7        8.4      3.7            1.6            140.7
1980           86.8         41.3         9.2           6.7         10.3       10.0      4.4            2.0            170.7
1981           95.8         45.8         9.8           7.4         11.2       10.8      4.8            2.2            187.8
1982          115.4         55.4        11.4           8.9         13.2       12.9      5.8            2.6            225.6
1983          125.4         60.4        12.1           9.7         14.2       13.9      6.3            2.9            244.9
1984          148.6         71.7        14.1          11.5         16.8       16.6      7.6            3.5            290.4
1985          159.5         76.8        15.0          12.3         17.9       17.9      8.3            3.8            311.5
1986          169.2         81.6        15.9          13.1         18.9       19.4      8.9            4.1            331.1
1987         179.3          86.5        16.8          13.9         20.0       20.9      9.5            4.5            351.4
1988         189.9          91.7        17.8          14.7         21.1       22.6    10.2            4.8             372.8
1989          201.2         97.2        18.9          15.6         22.2       24.4    11.0             5.2            395.7
1990          213.1        103.0        20.1          16.5         23.4       26.4    11.8             5.6            419.9
1/ Reimbursement from the Government for exempt services.
Source: AASANA and IBRD Mission
December 1976



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AASANA
Projected Operating Statements
($b Million)
Working                  Operating               Net
Year End     Operating                Working Expenses                Surplus/                   Income/              Profit/
December 31   Revenue    Maintenance   Wages    Other    Total   (Deficit)  Depreciation   (Loss)    Interest  (Loss)
1975 1       56.0          2.4        42.7      6.9       52.0        4.0         7.6        ( 3.6)
19761/       69.1          4.5        54.1      7.0       65.6        3.5        23.8        (20.3)
1977         93.7         13.3        55.2      7.2       75.7       18.0        32.9        (14.9)                 (14,9)
1978        105.0         17.1        56.3      7.3       80.7       24.3        32.9        ( 8.6)        7.8      (16.4)
1979        140.7         21.2        57.4      7.5       86.1       54.6        32.9         21.7        12.7        9.0
1980        170.7         32.2        58.6      7.6       98.4 -----72.3 -------- 2,1_........3_Q ......218         .iLA_
1981        187.8         34.7        59.7      7.8      102.2      85.6         84.2          1.4        36.4      (35.0)
1982        225.6         35.5        60.9      7.9      104.3     121.3         86.0         35.3        39.5      ( 4.2)
1983        244.9         36.5        62.1      8.1      106.7     138.2         88.5         49.7        37.5       12.2
1984        290.4         37.5        63.4      8.2      109.1     181.3         91.0         90.3        34.9       55.4
1985        311.5         38.9        64.7      8.4 ----- 112.Q----122J5_------9_45------1,Q_5Q ------32-3 72.7
1986        331.1         39.8        65.9      8.6      114.3     216.8         96.4        120.4        29.6       90.8
1987        351.4         40.8        67.3      8.8      116.9     234.5         98.9        135.6        27.0      108.6
1988        372.8         41.8        68.6      8.9      119.3      253.5       101.4        152.1        24.3      127.8
1989        395.7         42.8        70.0      9.1      121.9     273.8        103.9        169.9        21.7      148.2
1990        419.9         43.8        71.4      9.3      124.5     295.4        101.3        194.1        19.1      175.0
1/ Unaudited
2/ Estimated
Source: AASANA and IBRD Mission
April 1977



BOL IVTIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Riberalta Airport
Projected Operating Statements
($b 000)
Working
Year End    Operating                Working Expenses              Surplus/                     Operating Profit/
December 31    Revenue    Maintenance   Wages   Other   Total   (Deficit)   Depreciation               (Loss)
1975            646.0        177.7       454.6   42.6    674.9       ( 28.9)        200.0            ( 228.9)
1976-=          707.0        140.7       531.8   43.5    766.0       ( 59.0)        200.0            ( 259.0)
1977            955.0        143.5       593.4   44.3    781.2        173.8         200.0            (  26.2)
1978           1081.0        146.4       605.3   45.2    796.9        284.1         200.0               84.1
1979          1462.0         149.3       617.4   46.1    812.8        649.2         200.0              449.2
1980           1902.0       1022.4       629.8   47.0   1699.2        202.8        3109.0      .    .906_2
1981           2157.0       2044.8       642.4   48.0   2735.2       (578.2)       6218.0            (6796.2)
1982           2579.0       2044.8       655.2'  48.9   2748.9       (169.9)       6218.0            (6387.9)
1983           2804.0       2044.8       668.3   49.9   2763.0         41.0        6218.0            (6177.0)
1984           3316.0       2044.8       681.7   50.9   2777.4        538.6        6218.0            (5679.4)
1985           3578.0       2044.8       695.3   51.9   2792.0        786.0        6218.0         _-54__ 0
1986           3776.0       2044.8       709.2   53.0   2807.0        969.0        6218.0            (5249.0)
1987           3994.0       2044.8       723.4   54.0   2822.2       1171.8        6218.0            (5046.2)
1988           4220.0       2044.8       737.9   55.1   2837.8       1382.2        6218.0            (4835.8)
1989           4448.0       2044.8       752.6   56.2   2853.6       1594.4        6218.0            (4623.6)
1990           4711.0       2044.8       767.7   57.3   2869.8       1841.2        5479.0            (3637.8)
1/ Unaudited
2/ Estimate
Source: AASANA and IBRD Mission
December 1976



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Santa Ana Airport
Projected Operating Statements
($b 000)
Working
Year End    Operating                 Working Expenses              Surplus/                     Operating Profit/
December 31    Revenue    Maintenance   Wages   Other   Total   (Deficit)   Depreciation                 (Loss)
I/
1975-=         452.0          86.8       382.6   39.5    508.9    ( 56.9)             50.0           ( 106.9)
1976-,         496.0          93.6       489.6   40.3    623.5    (127.5)             50.0           ( 177.5)
1977           658.0          95.5       499.4   41.1    636.0         22.0           50.0           (  28.0)
1978           730.0          97.4       509.4   41.9    648.7         81.3           50.0              31.3
1979           965.0          99.3       519.6   42.8    661.7        303.3           50.0             253.3
1980          1291.0         101.3       529.9   43.6    674.8       616.2            50.0             566.2
1981          1449.0        1406.7       540.6   44.5   1991.8    (542.8)           4629.0           (5171.8)
1982          1739.0        1406.7       551.4   45.4   2003.5    (264.5)           4629.0           (4893.5)
1983          1882.0        1406.7       562.4   46.3   2015.4    (133.4)           4629.0           (4762.4)
1984          2233.0        1406.7       573.6   47.2   2027.5        205.5         4629.0           (4423.5)
1985          2593.0        1806.7       585.1   48.2   2440.0       153.0          5629.0 ---(---A Q)
1986          2745.0        1780.1       596.8   49.1   2426.0        319.0         5097.0           (4778.0)
1987          2902.0        1780.1       608.8   50.1   2439.0       463.0          5097.0           (4634.0)
1988          3059.0        1780.1       620.9   51.1   2452.1       606.9          5097.0           (4490.1)
1989          3226.0        1780.1       633.3   52.1   2465.5        760.5         5097.0           (4336.5)
1990          3402.0        1780.1       646.0   53.2   2479.3       922.7          5099.0           (4176.3)
1/ Unaudited                                                                                                                   >
2/ Estimate                                                                                                                    M
Source:  AASANA and IBRD Mission                                                                                                -
December 1976



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
San Borja Airport
Projected Operating Statements
($b 000)
Working
Year End      Operating                 Working Expenses                Surplus/                     Operating Profit/
December 31      Revenue      Maintenance   Wages   Other   Total    (Deficit)   Depreciation               (Loss)
19751/          444.0          484.6       418.6   33.1       936.3      (492.3)          50.0               ( 542.3)
1976.=          498.0          194.0       535.7   33.8       763.5      (265.5)          50.0               ( 315.5)
1977            672.0          197.9       546.4   34.4       778.7      (106.7)         50.0                ( 156.7)
1978            756.0          201.8       557.3   35.1       794.2      ( 38.2)         50.0                (  88.2)
1979           1007.0          205.9       568.5   35.8       810K2       196.8           50.0                 146.8
1980           1435.0Q         872.2       579.9   36.5    1488.6 ...          .     233.0         . .(.286.6
1981           1605.0         1744.4       591.5   37.2    2373.1        (768.1)       5467.0                (6235.1)
1982           2019.0         1744.4       603.3   38.0    2385.7        (366.7)       5467.0                (5833.7)
1983           2209.0         1744.4       615.4   38.0    2398.6        (189.6)       5467.0                (5656.6)
1984           2664.0         1744.4       627.7   39.6    2411.7         252.3        5467.0                (5214.7)
1985           3007.0         1744.4       640.2   40.4    2425.0         582.0        5467.0                (4885.0)
1986           3180.0         1744.4       653.0   41.2    2438.6         741.4        5467.0                (4725.6)
1987           3360.0         1744.4       666.0   42.0    2452.4         907.6        5467.0                (4559.4)
1988           3555.0         1744.4       679.4   42.8    2466.6        1088.4        5467.0                (4378.6)
1989           3762.0         1744.4       692.9   43.7    2481.0        1281.0        5467.0                (4186.0)
1990           3990.0         1744.4       706.8   44.5    2495.7        1494.3        4728.0                (3233.7)
1/ Unaudited
2/ Estimate
Source: AASANA and IBRD Mission
December 1976



BOLITVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tarija Airport
Projected Operating Statements
($b 000)
Working
Year End     Operating                Working Expenses              Surplus/                   Operating Profit!
December 31     Revenue    Maintenance   Wages   Other   Total   (Deficit)   Depreciation              (Loss)
19 7 5            392.0        95.2       346.5   35.4    477.1   ( 85.1)            100.0           ( 185.1)
1975w            465.0         72.5       443.5   36.1    552.1   ( 87.-1)           100.0           ( 187.1)
1977             649.0       1946.6       452.4   36.8   2435.8   (1786.8)         4867.0            (6653.8)
1978              740.0      1946.6       461.4   37.6   2445.6   (1705.6)          4867.0           (6572.6)
1979             1257.0      1946.6       470.6   38.3   2455.5   (1198.5)         4867.0            (6065.5)
1980             1666.0      1989.7       480.1   39.1   2508.9 .   842.9)         5298.0            (6140.9)
1981             1880.0      2032.8       489.7   39.9 2.7   ( 682.4)              5729.0            Z4ILZY
1982              2317.0     2032.8       499.5   40.7   2573.0   ( 256.0)          5729.0           (5985.0)
1983             2575.0      2032.8       509.4   41.5   2583.7   (   8.7)         5729.0            (5737.7)
1984             3136.0      2032.8       519.6   42.3   2594.7      541.3         5729.0            (5187.7)
1985              3438.0     2032.8       530.0   43.2   2606.0       832.0         5729.0           (4897.0)
1986             3732.0      2032.8       540.6   44.0   .6i757    1 14.6          5729.0    ------
1987             4021.0      2032.8       551.4   44.9   2629.1    1391.9          5729.0            (4337.1)
1988             4307.0      2032.8       562.5   45.8   2641.1    1665.9          5729.0            (4063.1)
1989             4613.0      2032.8       573.7   46.7   2653.2    1959.8          5729.0            (3769.2)
1990             4949.0      2032.8       585.2   47.6   2665.6    2283.4          5300.0            (3016.6)
1/ Unaudited
2/ Estimate
Source: AASANA and IBRD Mission
December 1976



BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AASANA
Projected Cash Flow
($b million)
Source of Funds                           2/                       Application of Funds
Goverimnent
Debtors         Cash      World   Government  Government EqUity for         Total    Capital    Loan Repayment          Total      Annual    Cumulative
Year Ended     Operating 1/    Less           from       Bank      Equity    Equity Non-   Cash            Cash     Invest-                            Cash       Cash        Cash
December 31     Surplus       Creditors   Operations   Loan       Project       Project   Requirements Available   ments   Principal  Interest   Required   Surplus    Balance
1977                 18.0         4.5         13.5        26.8      50.0         157.2        48.2         295.7       282.8      -            -        282.8       12.9        12.9
1978                24.3          1.6         22.7        73.0      42.0          59.9          -          197.6      189.0       -          7.8        196.8         .8        13.7
1979                 54.6         7.6         47.0        88.3     103.0         348.0        33.5         619.8       606.2      -         12.7        618.9         .9        14.6
1980                 72.3         4.4         67.9       248.7      67.6         285.6          -          669.8      645,9       -         21.8        667.7        2.1        16.7
1981                85.6          3.3         82.3        52.7      25.2          83.5          -          243.7       206.6      -         36.4        243.0         .7        17.4
1982                121.3         8.9        112.4         9.2       1.3          54.2          -          177.1       105.1     32.2       39.5        176.8         .3        17.7
1983                138.2         4.2        134.0         1.3       -            34.8          -          170.1       100.0     32.2       37.5        169.7         .4        18.1
1984                181.3        10.8        170.5         -          -            -            -          170.5       100.0     32.2       34.9        167.1        3.4        21.5
1985                199.5         4.6        194.9         -          -            -            -          194.9       100.0     32.2       32.3        164.5       30.4        51.9
1986                216.8         4.3        212.5         -          -            -            -          212.5       138.8     32.2       29.6        200.6       11.9        63.8
1987                234.5         4.5        230.0         -         -             -            -          230.0       102.8     32.2       27.0        162.0       68.0       131.8
1988                253.5         4.7        248.8         -         -             -            -          248.8       100.0     32.2       24.3        156.5       92.3       224.1
1989                273.8         5.0        268.8         -          -            -            -          268.8       100.0     32.2       21.7        153.9      114.9       339.0
1990                295.4         5.5        289.9         -          -             -           -          289.9       100.0     32.2       19.1        151.3      138.6       477.6
2,169.1        73.9      2,095.2       500.0     289.1       1,023.2        81.7       3,989.2    2,877.2    289.8       344.6      3,511.6      477.6
1/ From Table 13
/ Cash requirements to cover lag between disbursements by AASANA or the Government and reimbursement by the World Bank, interest payments and
required annual cash balance.
Source: IBRD Mission
April 1977



BOLIVIA
&VIATION D1ELOPMEN)qT PROJEC.T
prltoected B6e1e,ncm Sheete ce of Deceffmber 31
6$ etillions}
1977       1978        1979        1980        198L       1982        1983        1984        1985        1986       1987        1968        3989        3890
Aeset s
trent Assets:
Lab 1/                                            12.9        13.7        14.6       16.7        17.4        17.7        18.1        21,5       51.9        63.8       131.8       224.1       339.0       477.6
eceiv bles                                        23.4        26.3        35.2        42.7       47,0        56.4        61.2        72.6        77.9       82.8        87 9        93.2        98.9       105.0
36.3       40.0        49.S        59,4       66.4        74.1        79.3        94.1       129.8       146.b    . 219.7       317.3       437.9        562.6
Fixed Assets - Gross                              718.9       934.9    1,379.1    2,036.0    2,415.5    2,585.2    2,685.2    2,785.2    2.885.2    3,024.0    3,126.8    3,226.8    3,325.9    3,425.9
Accueulated deprecialaon                         60.9       113.6       146.7       216.0       30         386.2       474.7       565.7        60        756.6        835.5      956.9    1,060.8 1
: set fixed asaset  ln, uee                   638.0       821.t    1,232.4    1,840.0    2,115.3    2,199.0    2,210.5    2,219.5    2,225.0    2,267.4    2,271.3    2,269S9   2,265.1    2,263.8
Coc,strc,ctioc, in ptosres                      t113.5       86.5       253.3       217.5       129.3        -           -           -           -
751.5      907.6    i,485.7    2,357:S'    2,244.6    Z,199T6    5T~            2,219.5    2,225.0    2,267.4    2,271.3    2,269.9   T2265.1    2,263,8
787.8      947.6        _        2116.9    2.309.a    2 273 3       2,289.8     2,313.6    2,354.8    2,414.0    2,491.0    2,587.2    2,703.0    2,846.4
Liabilities
Current liabilities:
Trade creditors                                   18.9       20.2        21.5        24.6        25.6       26.1        267         27.3        26.0        28.6        29.2        29.8       30.5         31.1
Ilold backs                                              -                4.6                    64,7         --                                                                     --
18.k9          2       26.3        24.6        90.'3       26.1       26.7        27.3        26 .        28.6        29.2        2           30.S8       31.1
Long-term debt - 8.2%                               26.6        99.8      168.1       436,8       489.5      466.5       435.6       403.4       371.2       339.0       306.8       274.6       241.5       209.3
Ceeltal:
Present investment                              525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5      525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5       525.5      325.5        525 3
New Govermeent equity                            235.4      357.3       841}      1 1950    1,303.7    1359.2    1 394.l    1,394,0    1,394.0    1394,0    1 394.0    1 394.0    1 394.0    1 394.3
882.98    1,397:3    J18                               1, 7,919                     .5    T,915- Tg3    1,919.5               tT5
Belainad earnisgcusL tddefiit
(23.9)     (38.8)      (55.2)      (46.2)      (65.0)    (100.0)     (104.2)      (92.0)      (36.6)       36.1       t26.9       235.5       363.3       511.5
Profit,i(Ions)                                   (14.9)     (16.4)        9.0       (18.8)      (35.0)       (4.2)      12.2        55.4        72.7        90.8       108.6       127.8       148.2       175.0
01,0510S                                         (38.6)      (55.2       4          (65.0)                 (104.2)    (59202)      (36.6        36.1       126.9       235.5       363.3       511.5       6w86,3
Total Cai,ittl                                     742.1      827.6    1,321.1    1,655.5    1,729.2    1,780.5    1,827,5    1,882.9    1,955.6    2,046.4    2,155.0    2,282.8    2,431.0    2,606.0
Total_ iabllities                                  787.8       947.6    3,333.5 :j              2,30. 2,273.t                       2.313.6    2.354,6 9               2.49        2,587,2 2 2
1/  Table 18
Somrtt:  IBRD Mission
April 1977



TABLE 20
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AASANA
Schedule of Selected Financial Indicators
Annual Return on
Combined Working Ratio       Working Ratio        Net Fixed Assets in Use
Project Airports             AASANA                    AASANA
(%)                      (%)                       (%)
1977                158                      81
1978                142                      76                         -
1979                101                      61                        2.1
1980                101                      58                         .2
1981                136                      54                         .1
1982                112                      46                        1.6
1983                103                      44                        2.3
1984                 87                      38                        4.1
1985                 81                      36                        4.7
1986                 77                      35                        5.3
1987                 72                      33                        6.0
1988                 69                      32                        6.7
1989                 65                      31                        7.5
1990                 62                      30                        8.6
Source: IBRD Mission
April 1977



ANNEX 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
Loan or          Effective             Amount                            Present
Credit No.         Date             (US$ million)        Works           Status
635-BO        November 2, 1971          23.3         CIA YACIBOL -      Completed
Loan                                                 BAGOC TRANSPOR-    in 1972
TADORES
Gas Pipeline
346-BO        February 21, 1973          8.0         Bolivia Railways   Completed
Credit                                               (ENFE)              in 1977
1121-BO       August 6, 1975            28.7        Bolivia Railways   Under
Loan                                                 (ENFE) 1975/76      execution
investment plan
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Bolivia Aircraft on Register 1975
NO. OF AIRCRAFT
Lloyd Aereo Boliviano              BOEING 727-100                      3
BOEING 727-200                      1
FAIRCHILD F-27                      4
DOUGLAS DC-3                        3
Non-Scheduled Airlines             DOUGLAS C-54                        4
DC-7B                      1
C-53                       1
C-47/DC-3                 10
FAIRCHILD F-27                     2
CURTISS C-46                      20
CONVAIR 440                        5
OTHERS                             5
Yacimientos Petroliferos           AERO COMMANDER                      2
Fiscales Bolivianos                D.H. BEAVER                         1
D.H. TWIN OTTER                    2
Air Taxi Companies
and Private                      VARIOUS SMALL                     170
Aerial Work on Training            AIRCRAFT                           86
TOTAL          320
Source: DGAC
January 1977



.4  H  >4  -0   000oo0ooooo    >4 >4 0  0  >4                               '0  0  0  >4 r       C,C, C,  CO C, C, >4 >4
No  zcz-s..    N  -  '0  *                                            00-a                   0                          o
0>' 02882  88888OOO  OOC, 28   8 o 8.3oo
0                                                                                0  Ci    0.   a         0'   -    0  0  0  -   >4
>4                                                                         0    '-    0  1    0    0  -
3              C-'    0  0  >3'    >3.    0  0  0  0  >4  0  C.    C,    C,    0  N  '1  1  'C  0  C,  C,  0  0  0  0  -  0  0  0  0  -  N    N
                   0.  0  N                o  0     0  0 on on 0  0  N  0  0        0  0  -          -  N  Ci  'o  0'
N"             0      3,           >4    C,     CO    0  0  C   .    '1  0   -  >                      0             0
C,       .4  4                     0                      0
0    0   0                N                0
C,         C-C    0  0>
8
-                                                                                    N    CC               '1    0    0    0
Ct              0   N        0  0   C-'    0  0   .0
0'nC,       N                                   0                               'C    o
roN          0
4>400                                                   -  0
>4 0."N 0.                                                 0  0
a                                                       N
0< ,i
>4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  C4  >4  >4  C,  C,  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  CO  >4  CC  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  C,  0  >4  C,  >4
II
I-
>4    >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  C,  >4  >4  C,  C,  >4  >4  C,  >4  >4  >4  C,  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  >4  no  >4  C,
zc8                                                                                                                                      1>3
0448'                   8'  >300                                                       >3>3C3000>C-3'  -                                 0
>3 >3>30  >300>3>30>4>300>30  000050>3000   - >3>3fl
0  0>300  000  030000                                                                                    a 8'
'000-0    >4    000    0         0  0  0      0                  0  3  o  o  o  a       o  o  a  o    3        3  >4          >3>4
o     >4  04  0  N     0  0  N      CC  >4  N  N  >4  CC  4  CC  CO  CC  CC  CC  0  CC  0  N  CC  >4  0  0  04  N   0  0   N
>3    >3  0  0>3       058'         8' 00000    o    o             8' 8'    8' >3>3  >3 05    Z    0'  >3                  53
0 0 0 OC 0 0 >3 >3 0 0' .0 0 0 0
8 2W3
I                        83                                    '0  >3>3000'  8' CO   55
4                                  -   '  -     -          ,    -                  0.4
0.0>4    0'                     0  >3 >3   >3 >3 >3    >3C-'>3>3C-"                                                                    00
8' 55000t
'-'8
-    '4                   >3                                                      -     -            -                               -
0         C"   0   '3>3   >3>3>3   300    >40000    00    0   00>3    C  >3  -   >300n1L
I         >3   >4                                          >30'000            00        0'    >40'00    -          >3   -      >3*0    CO
0          0
0'         C-i>4
0         >3           . .   . . ..            .       .       .      .       . .                            >3>3 >3   0 - -   >3'3N*>3>3>3>3 0'  >3 >3  >3   0 >3 *  0  >3  >3 >3C"2C
>30   0>35   >4 >3C'0>300 00    03    0   00 '0     0  0   000   C,  Ci
8' 5     3            0         00   0  00   0                                             o   o       0                      >4
0.                                                                  00    00    0   000                                                  18  Ct
38'                                                       >4
C'    '0    >4   >4   '0    0  0    >4   >4    0    >4   >4    0  0    0  0  >3    0  C,  >4    0  C,   0  >4    a    a  a  0  >4    0
>4 '                                                               8' 8 330
0'  - I                             "'C a-r r   a o noon
--                                                 -   - -             *fl-
3ow ow--3, ow N  000'    8'
2  0                                0.                                        8                                               Ia 0>3
I-C  -   -- 0'--- -  C, - -                                                                                        0
0               '0        0      '00                                                                               '0  0
O         0  0'  0                          OC                0''                                                                     IX
-         0     *      .-        ...             -.2   0  0  0
V     8'         04
0'    o  po <  <          <  400          ioN       o  , 82                    -   0       0
o  no   o'4'4                   8'    004
N     CO     N         C, N         4     0  N  N  0  004                     0     4  0                 I-t  '4    4
00.
N    N                              N 0  - ONNONNOo                                            0 N
a         0                         0    0>   0  0    0    0  0  1    0  0  N  S  N     04     0  0
4                                                                               ;>     ?.
-         0.                        0-NC            0.00.0.0-                           0         0.
8.                                        8.8.8.8.8.                                   8.    8.8.             o
4
0'                       N'               C00'0'                                     8'    8'                        8'8.
8                         8                                                            >4     >41                      04
0               0    0  0  0  0                              p.                              0
0               00000                                        0  33
>3       a                                                                                                              C,
RXXX%XxXgx 3 33XXR X  XXX..
>3 -                      I'  CCCCCC,i,,  C *CCCC>IC    I '
>3    >3>3>3>30>3>3                   >3    >3 >3 >3 0"O
0        0      0                                                                   0          0                       no
0     0                                                                   0          0                       .0100
>4   '0      X          a  a  'o >4 a  a  a  a  >4 a       a      a  >4 a  a      >4  >4         >4     a  aao
0                   C               .    CCCCC,,C,.                                     '                I S            S  C  COO
>4 0               o         o    o  0  0  0  0' 0  0  0       0      0  0  0  0                            3.0 >3    >3    0>3>3  >3>3>3>3>3>3>3>3>3>3  >3  C3>3>3>3C,  >3>4  >3    >3 >3>3,05
>3    >3    >4>3>3        >3>3>3>3>3>34>3>3>3                >3     >3"J"4>3I"3   >3>0             >3     >3>3>30>"
>3 - >3 - -0
>3 0  >4    0  >4     o  0  0  0  0  >4 0  0  a  0       >4     0  o  o  a                                >4 0  0.
A
0                                040>0
4
>3                                   I-tO



ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Aircraft Accidents in Bolivia
1.        The statistics for 1972-1974 were alarming:  112 accidents, of
which 54 were major, the aircraft being either destroyed or seriously damaged.
Of these, 11 were fatal. Relating this to the approximately 320 or so aircraft
on the Bolivian Register evidences a very high rate.
2.        The rate was particularly disturbing in the transport aircraft
category: 36 accidents within three years with only 50 aircraft on the
Register as of 30 October 1974. All but one occurred on non-scheduled oper-
ations, and 70% involved total loss or major damage to the aircraft.
3.        Of the accidents to transport category aircraft, 56% were Curtiss
C-46 piston-engined old-vintage aeroplanes, recognized as difficult to main-
tain and to fly. Also, general aviation recorded a high rate: 76 accidents,
with 154 aircraft on the Register as of 30 October 1974.
4.        The statistics were similar in 1975 with 76 accidents, of which 27
involved transport-type aircraft (Douglas DC-3, Curtiss C-46, etc.) on non-
scheduled operations. This may be related to about 300 aircraft on register
that year. In 1976, the situation improved as a result of improved control of
airworthiness and flight standards. The airport and enroute conditions, how-
ever, continue to limit the achievable safety of operations.
5.        Some 22 transport-type aircraft were written off completely as a
result of accidents during 1972-1975, which, even if the aircraft are old,
represents a significant loss and increases insurance premiums substantially.
January 1977



ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Traffic Forecast Methodology
Passenger Forecasts
1.        The basic forecasts of passengers and cargo traffic were developed
in the feasibility studies for the different airports carried out during 1974-
1976 by several entities. The forecasts for Tarija and San Borja were done
by the Bolivian consultant IPA, the one for Santa Ana de Yacuma by a consor-
tium of IPA and the Brazilian firm Hidroservicio and, finally, AASANA's own
staff prepared the forecasts for Riberalta. For passengers, two methods
were employed: one based on previous traffic trends, the other on a multiple
regression analysis based on urban population and per capita income. The
results of these methods were similar.
2.        These basic forecasts were revised by the Bank staff in consultation
with AASANA, Oficina de Planificacion. In this revision, two adjustments were
made, first to update the base year for traffic development to a common year
1975, and, second, to account for additional traffic growth as a result of
better services on completion of the project. This additional traffic is due
primarily to presently suppressed demand and, to a very limited extent, is
the result of cost reductions for travelers. To determine the additional
traffic growth, comparisons were made with recent experience with jet air-
craft introduction at airports such as Trinidad and Sucre where, despite un-
changed or increased passenger fares, accelerated traffic growth has been
experienced as a result of more reliable services. For traffic development
prior to project completion, LAB detailed traffic forecasts for the next five-
year period have served as a guide to check the validity of the assumptions
made. For Riberalta, it has been assumed that 50% of the normal traffic at
Guayaramerin would be diverted to the new airport. Despite these adjustments,
the average growth rate for the 1975-1990 period is less than the actual
achieved over the past five-year period.
Cargo Forecasts
3.        For cargo, the same entities as mentioned above made the basic
traffic forecast. For Tarija, air cargo is so limited that no special cargo
flights would be required. The forecasts for the other airports were based
on a continuation of previous traffic trends and the relationship of air cargo
with GNP for Bolivia and the province of Beni. These were reviewed against
tendencies in the economic development of the region and, in particular, the
cattle industry. The result was the adoption by the Bank staff of lower
growth rates for the years after 1985. No factor of inducement by better
services was included since the majority of air cargo is assumed to continue
to be carried by propeller-type aircraft.
April 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Airport Conditions and Proposed Improvements
A.   Existing Airport Conditions
(i) Riberalta
The existing airport is located at the southwest edge of the town
on a plain between the Rio Beni and an ancient river bed and about 20 meters
above the river. The airport has an elevation of 171.0 m and consists of two
dirt, lime and gravel runways sparsely covered with grass. The main runway
is 1,800 x 50 m on an alignment of 9/27 and has an effective gradient of 0.45%;
the second runway, 1,100 x 50 m on an alignment of 15/33, is rarely used. The
airport has a small terminal building served by a partially asphalt paved
apron of 26,800 m2. Although relatively well drained, the operational sur-
faces of the airport suffer during the wet season, and constant maintenance
is required to repair soft spots.
There is small control tower with old communications equipment
adjacent to the terminal. The airport does not have lights, but has an NDB.
Between the threshold of R/W 09 and the river are two residential
blocks. Since all except the lightest aircraft must use this runway, the
houses are continually subjected to dangers relating to low flying aircraft
during critical periods of their operation as well as attendant noise, fumes,
etc. Expansion of the runway would necessitate demolition of these houses
and would separate from the town the remaining flat land to the south of the
runway, without the construction of a costly road along the river edge. Expan-
sion of the runway at the opposite end would require excessive fill due to the
close proximity of the ancient river bed (between 15 and 20 meters lower than
the runway elevation).
The short runway alignment is even more critical as far as the loca-
tion of the town is concerned. Flights to R/W 15 must pass over the central
portion of the town. Expansion of the runway in this direction would not be
practical since it would split the town in half. Expansion in the opposite
direction would be restricted, in the same manner as the other runway, by the
ancient river bed. However, even if the costs for this extension were accept-
able, the necessity for flights over the town would not be accepted.
(ii) San Borja
The existing airport is located directly adjacent to the northeast
side of the town, between the town and the Rio Rapulo. It is at an elevation



ANNEX 5
Page 2
of 193.6 m and consists of a single 1,800 x 50 m dirt and lime runway covered
with grass on an alignment of 15/30. The runway has an effective gradient of
0.06%. A small terminal building with a 13,500 m2 apron and three slaughter-
houses are located on the town side of the runway. The grass has been worn
thin in many places, and, during the wet season, the airport must be closed
for extended periods because of excessive softness of the runway.
There is a small control tower near the terminal which contains some
old communications equipment, and there is also an old NDB located at the air-
port. The runway is not provided with lighting, and no operations are allowed
during the hours of darkness.
(iii) Santa Ana
The existing airport is located about 2 km to the southwest of the
town at an elevation of 220.0 m. It consists of a single 1,500 x 50 m dirt
and lime runway covered with grass on an alignment of 14/32, which has an
effective gradient of 0.21%. There is a small terminal building with a control
tower on the northeast side of the runway, served by a 1,200 m2 apron. A
slaughterhouse has been built on the side opposite the terminal at the edge of
the flight strip. Everywhere except directly on the runway are large chimney-
type ant hills.
The runway is flooded during the wet season and, for a considerable
time after recession of the water, must remain closed because of soft operating
surfaces.
The tower has some old communications equipment, and the airport has
an NDB; the runway is not provided with lighting, however, and all operations
cease at dusk.
(iv) Tarija
The existing airport is located about 3 km to the east of the town
across the Rio Bermejo at an elevation of 1,861.0 m. It has two runways. The
longer, originally 2,000 x 45 m with an effective gradient of 0.72%, is in
the process of being strengthened and lengthened to 2,800 x 45 m to accommo-
date Boeing B-727 aircraft. The second, 1,220 x 80 m of dirt, lime and sand,
is being regraded at the intersection of the two runways near the terminal
area. The alignment of the main runway is 15/33.
The terminal building is modest but suitable, with an apron of 3,520
m2 and an attached control tower. The tower contains old communications equip-
ment, and the airport has an NDB but no runway lighting.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
The river passes close to the northwest end of the runway and along
the southwest side. A deep arroyo crosses the extended centerline of the
runway at the southeast end. The northwest end of the river has been pro-
tected with riprap, but the southeast end is badly in need of similar protec-
tion to prevent erosion of the runway end.
When completed in the spring of 1977, the prime runway will be
serviceable in most weather conditions, but will require heavy maintenance
to remain so.
(v) Cochabamba
The existing airport is adjacent to the southwest side of the city
at an elevation of 2,547.0 m in a mountain valley which runs roughly northwest/
southeast. The airport has two runways, only one of which is in use. The
main runway, 04/22, is 2,500 x 45 m with a gradient of 0.22% and is asphalt-
paved, but it is aligned so that all operations pass over the center of the
city. The closeness of the mountains on the northeast city end requires low-
level turns either on final approach or just after takeoff. A hill which
penetrates the obstruction clearance zones just south of the extended center
line at this end further complicates operations. At the southwest end, the
mountains, while providing more clearance, still force low-level turns during
both operations.
The second runway, 1,500 x 30 m on an alignment of 13/31, was
asphalt-sealed at one time, but has now mostly deteriorated and is seldom
used.
The terminal area is on the north side of the northeast end of R/W
22. The terminal building is overloaded during periods of heavy traffic. A
control tower is attached, which contains the major weather station for
Bolivia. All equipment is old. The apron is 20,000 m2 asphalt paved. A
paved taxiway extends to the maintenance base of LAB near the intersection of
the two runways.
The airport has an NDB, and a VOR has been purchased but not yet
installed. Edge lighting has recently been installed on R/W 04/22, its taxi-
ways and the apron.
B.   Proposed Project
(i) Riberalta
A new airport will be constructed at a site about 5 km northeast
of the town. Approaches to the single runway will be entirely clear of
built-up areas. The runway will be 2,000 x 45 m paved with asphaltic concrete
and will be stressed for a Boeing B-727-200. A terminal building designed for
a peak hour of 200 passengers will be constructed near the middle of the



ANNEX 5
Page 4
north side of the runway. It will be served by an apron sized for three B-727
aircraft. The apron will be connected to the runway by short lead-in taxiways.
The terminal area will be provided with a paved access road from the main high-
way which passes the airport site on the west. Adequate automobile parking
areas will be provided as well as a fuel storage area. A control tower and a
shed for emergency equipment will be built. All necessary utilities will be
provided. A perimeter chain link fence will be provided. The entire area
will be suitably drained.
The aircraft operational areas will be provided with edge lighting.
New VHF and HF communications equipment will be installed. A VOR/DME and
a 50W NDB will be installed, as well as a VASI system at one end of the run-
way.
(ii) San Borja
A new airport will be constructed at a site about 4 km northwest of
the town. Approaches to the single runway will be entirely clear of built-up
areas. The runway will be 1,800 x 30 m paved with asphaltic concrete and will
be stressed for a Fokker F-27. A terminal building designed for a peak hour
of 100 passengers will be constructed near the middle of the east side of the
runway. It will be served by a paved apron, sized for three F-27 aircraft,
which will be connected to the runway by a short paved lead-in taxiway. The
terminal area will be provided with a gravel access road from the nearest tow.n
road. Adequate automobile parking areas will be provided as well as a fuel
storage area. A control tower and a shed for emergency equipment will he
built.  All necessary utilities and a perimeter chain link fence will be p,o-
vided. The entire area will be suitably drained.
The aircraft operational areas will be provided with edge lighting.
However, the runway edge lighting will be spaced for a 45 m runway rather than
for the 30 m being constructed. New VHF and HF communications equipment, a
VOR/DME and a 50 W NDB will be installed, and there will be a VASI system at
one end of the runway.
Because of the major meat air cargo business, a multiple position
gravel aircraft apron with gravel lead-in taxiway to the runway will be pro-
vided beyond the terminal area on the same side of the runway to accommodate
the reconstruc Lon of exisLing slaughterhouses.
(iii) Santa Ana
A new runway will be constructed at the existing site parallel to
the existing runway but about 300 m from the face of the existing terminal
building. Approaches to this single runway will be entirely clear of built-
p areas. The runway will be 1,800 x 30 m crushed rock with double sand
asphalt seal, and will be stressed for a Fokker F-27. The terminal building
will be renovated for a peak hour of 100 passengers. It will be served by
a sealed apron sized for three F-27 aircraft and connected to the runway by



ANNEX 5
Page 5
a short sealed lead-in taxiway. The terminal area will be provided with a
gravel access road from the nearest road in town. Adequate gravel automobile
parking areas will be provided as well as a fuel storage area. The existing
control tower will be renovated, and a shed for emergency equipment will be
built. All necessary utilities will be refurbished. A perimeter chain link
fence will be provided. The entire area will be suitably drained.
The aircraft operational areas will be provided with edge lighting.
New VHF and HF communications equipment will be installed. A 50W NDB will be
installed in addition to a VASI system at one end of the runway.
Because of the major meat air cargo business, a multiple position
gravel aircraft apron with gravel lead-in taxiway to the runway will be pro-
vided on the opposite side of the runway from the terminal building to accom-
modate the reconstruction of existing slaughterhouses.
(iv) Tarija
The new 2,800 x 45 m crushed rock runway will be overlayed with
10 cm of asphaltic concrete for its entire length. The two lead-in taxiways
and the three B-727 position aprons will also be paved. The second runway will
not be paved, but grade transitions between the two runways will be provided.
The runway, apron and taxiways will be provided with edge lighting and a VASI
will be provided at one runway threshold.
The existing terminal building and control tower are adequate, but
new VHF and HF communications equipment will be provided as well as a VOR/DME
and a 50W NDB.
Chain link fencing will be provided around the entire perimeter of
the airport. The arroyo passing the southeast threshold of the runvay will be
diverted and armored with riprap, and the portion within 150 m of each side of
the extended runway centerline will be covered.
C.   Engineering
Design and construction supervision for the above airport work will
be provided.
Design of a new runway for Cochabamba will also be provided. This
runway will probably be aligned on 13/31, which parallels the major axis of
the Cochabamba valley. The position of the runway will be about 500 meters to
the southwest of the existing R/W 13/31. Such a location will require a new
taxiway sy2Le.i and a relocation of the terminal area. It is also probable
that the maintenance base of LAB will be relocated. A feasibility study
carried out in 1975 proposed such positioning.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
D.   Other Project Components
Various special components and communications, navaid, lighting and
maintenance equipment proposed for inclusion in the project are listed in
Annexes 6, 7 and 9.
February 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Location List for Equipment Included in the Project
Airport Lighting (R/W, T/W, Apron, Obstruction and Beacon)
Riberalta, San Borja, Tarija and Santa Ana
VOR's
Riberalta, San Borja, Tarija and Robore, Caranavi
DME's
Riberalta, San Borja, Tarija and Trinidad, Caranavi
NDB's 1KW
Trinidad, Cobija, Robore, Sucre and Yacuiba
NDB's 50W
Riberalta, San Borja, Tarija, Santa Ana, Apolo,
Ascencion, Magdalena, San Ignacio de V., San Jose,
San Javier, Guayaramerin
L 50W
La Paz, Guayaramerin, Sucre and Trinidad (2)
VASI
La Paz, Cochabamba (2), Trinidad (2), Santa Cruz (2)
and Sucre (2), Riberalta, San Borja, Santa Ana and
Tarija
TX HF ISB IKW
Trinidad (4), Cochabamba (2), La Paz (2)
TX HF SSB 150W, 4 channel (2 at each total 36)
Cobija, Riberalta, Guayaramerin, Santa Ana, San
Joaquin, San Ramon, Magdalena, San Ignacio de M. -
Sucre, Potosi, Camiri, Yacuiba, Tarija - Apolo,
Rurrenabaque, San Borja, Oruro, Charana
RX HF SSB 4 channels (4 at each of above, total 72)
RX HF ISB 4 channels
Cochabamba (4), Trinidad (8)
Tower Equipment (VHF, tape recorders, met., etc.)
Riberalta, San Borja, Santa Ana and Tarija



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Teletypewriter equipment
Terminal and Control Equipment
La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Trinidad
Transmitter Group (6 circuits each)
La Paz (3), Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Trinidad
Receiver Group (6 circuits each)
La Paz (3), Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Trinidad
Teletypewriters RO
La Paz (18), Cochabamba (6), Santa Cruz (6), and
Trinidad (6)
Teletypewriters ASR
La Paz (8), Cochabamba (2), Santa Cruz (2), and
Trinidad (2)
Teletypewriters KSR
La Paz (8), Cochabamba (6), Santa Cruz (6) and
Trinidad (6)
Portable TD
La Paz (2)
Power Supply
La Paz (5), Cochabamba (2), Santa Cruz (2) and
Trinidad (2)
Reperforator
La Paz (18), Cochabamba (6), Santa Cruz (6) and
Trinidad (6)
January 1977



ANNEX 7
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regional Maintenance Equipment
D-6 Tractor
Front End Loader
MotSrgrader
5 mJ Dumptruck .(3)
Dual Wheel Self-Propelled Sheeps Foot Roller with Blade
Hand Compactors (2)
D-24 Scraper
1,500-Gallon Tank Truck
Santa Ana Airport Maintenance Equipment
Asphalt Mixing Plant 8T/Hr
Bitumen Boiler/Sprayer 500 gals
Asphalt Cauldron 500 kg
Direct Drum Hand Sprayer
Tandem Vibratory Roller 1,140 kg
Compressor, Breaking Tools and Hoses, 125 cfm, 100 psi
Garage Compressor, 100 psi
Oxy-Acetylene Burning Gear
Welding Transformer and Tools
Carpenter's Tool Kit
Electrician's Tool Kit
Diesel Fitter's Tool Kit
Vehicle Mechanic's Tool Kit
Pavement Maintenance Hand Tools
January 1977



ANNEX 8
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Technical Assistance Job Descriptions
1.   Advisor to the Technical Director
The Advisor to the Director, who is the immediate assistant of the
Executive Director, must have a university degree and experience in aviation
infrastructure. He must also have the same qualifications as are required
for the position of the Executive Director.
The Advisor shall advise the Technical Director in his daily respon-
sibilities to:
(a) Direct, coordinate, supervise and evaluate the work of the
operational divisions in accordance with the policy and/or
plans of action adopted;
(b) Assist the Executive Director in the study and preparation
of the Institution's policies and also help him with the
tasks of direction and coordination with specific functions
within his field of competence and with other matters for
which his assistance is needed;
(c) Check on the pertinence of procedures, regulations, manuals
and other instruments within his field of competence;
(d) Supervise the progress of programs, projects and works, and,
together with the heads of technical departments, study any
actions or measures for effecting corrections or changes;
(e) Comply with and enforce resolutions, rules, procedures and
all other provisions governing technical operations at air-
ports or at enroute stations;
(f) Substitute for the Executive Director and exercise his
authority in accordance with the general rules, in the
latter's absence;
(g) Represent the Executive Director and exercise his
authority in such official activities as the latter may
indicate to him, and perform all such tasks as he may
delegate to him; and
(h) Perform all other functions pertinent to his position.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
2.   Accounts Division Chief
The Accounts Division Chief shall be responsible on a day-to-day
basis to:
(a) Ensure that the financial records are kept in accordance with
regulations as established by the Government and in a manner
compatible with generally accepted accounting principles.
This shall encompass AASANA Headquarters, Regional Offices,
Airports and enroute stations managed by AASANA by location
and Cost Center;
(b) Ensure that recommendations are presented to management for the
setting of structure and level of tariffs, as may be required,
in accordance with a review of cost data in (a) above.
(c) Ensure that monthly financial status reports of investment
undertaken by AASANA by location and Cost Center are prepared;
(d) Ensure development of manpower, operating and capital budgets
by location and Cost Center annually displayed by month for
the operating year, and also the preparation of annual budgets
for a projected period of five years;
(e) Ensure that accounting data are provided for planning and
decision-making purposes;
(f) Ensure that AASANA's monthly budgeted and actual financial
status reports are prepared;
(g) Direct the taking of inventory for general balance sheet
purposes;
(h) Supervise the general balance sheet preparation;
(i) Centralize operating and other expenditures on the basis
of a cost accounting plan and the programs budget;
(j) Ensure that summary accounts to be sent to debtors are
prepared, and summary accounts sent by creditors are checked;
(k) Ensure that year-end adjustments or corrections for the
accurate determination of the Institution's financial,
economic and assets situation are made;
(1) Supervise the implementation of a coordinated costs system;
(m)  Ensure that vouchers used for the recording of transactions
are properly filed;
(n) Analyze and act on financial reports from the regional offices;
and
(0) Perform any other functions assigned by the Department Chief.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
3.   Construction and Supervision and Maintenance Combined Divisions Chief
The Chief of these combined Divisions shall:
(a) Inform and advise the Department Chief on the work of the
Division, proposing the most appropriate measure and methods
for performing its functions;
(b) Direct supervision of construction, improvement and/or mainte-
nance of runways, taxiways, parking aprons, drainage, access
roads and other civil works carried out at airports and
enroute stations managed by AASANA;
(c) Direct supervision of construction, improvement or expansion
and/or maintenance of airport buildings and other architec-
tural or service facilities at airports and enroute stations
managed by AASANA;
(d) Be responsible for the preparation of, review and approval of,
progress payment certificates.
(e) Be responsible for the preparation and approval of work change
orders;
(f) Be responsible for the preparation and updating of the technical
specifications required for works construction, and enforcement
of compliance therewith;
(g) Be responsible for the quantitative calculations and unit prices,
budgets, work schedules and construction methods for the work of
the division;
(h) Supervise the different tests required to ensure the proper
execution of works;
(i) Coordinate with the Studies and Projects Division in deciding
on work changes, in issuing orders for such changes and in
performing any corrections to the work done by the division;
(j) Direct the corresponding technical inspections and recommend
acceptance of the works;
(k)  Monitor supervision of the construction works when such super-
vision is carried out by third parties;
(1) Supervise the preparation of programs, budgets and technical
specifications related to airport and enroute station
maintenance;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(m)  Schedule and evaluate execution of the maintenance works
carried out by the different regional centers;
(n) Periodically direct the inspection of the different airports
and enroute stations within the AASANA network, to ensure
compliance with the maintenance program;
(o) Direct studies and propose the purchase and replacement of
machinery and equipment required for airport and enroute
station maintenance;
(p) Supervise the establishment and updating of unit prices for
maintenance work, by region; and
(q) Perform other duties as assigned by the Department Chief.
4.   Air Navigational Aids Division Chief
The Chief of this Division shall:
(a) Ensure that the level of standard approved for the facility
is implemented and the radio navaid systems are maintained
so that the safe operation of aircraft is guaranteed;
(b) Supervise the preparation and implementation of the rules
and regulations necessary for the proper maintenance and
conservation of radio navaid equipment, installations and
components;
(c) Supervise the preparation of technical instructions and
publications for the optimum use of the facilities
installed and/or maintained;
(d) Ensure that the operation of the equipment and facilities
for which the Division is responsible are continually
monitored and periodically evaluated;
(e) Ensure that systems for recording adjustments, operating
reports and flight test reports are systematically analyzed
and evaluated;
(f)  Coordinate the Division's activities with the Operations
Department, regional airport managers and companies
operating aircraft in order to provide the assistance
required to improve service;
(g) Cause all pertinent frequencies to be monitored and recommend
the use of specific frequencies for aeronautical radio navaid
services in accordance with the regulations;



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(h) Study and make recommendations on requirements for specialized
personnel; and
(i) Perform other duties as assigned by the Department Chief.
5.   Telecommunications Systems Division Chief
The Chief of this Division shall:
(a) Supervise the installation and maintenance of all communications
equipment and systems necessary to ensure the optimum provision
of air traffic control and information services in accordance
with the approved operating regulations;
(b) Study and make recommendations on requirements for specialized
personnel;
(c) Ensure that the performance of the equipment for which the
Division is responsible is adequately monitored and period-
ically evaluated;
(d) Ensure that the systems for recording adjustments, operating
reports, flight test reports, etc., are systematically
analyzed and evaluated; and
(e) Perform other duties as assigned by the Department Chief.
February 1977



ANNEX 9
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Special Components of the Project
Airport Access Roads
The new airport at Riberalta would be constructed southeast of the
town along an existing highway. The project would include an access road from
this highway to the terminal area (1 km).
The new airport at San Borja would be constructed 4 km northwest of
the town. The project would include an access road from an existing main
road at the outskirts of the town to the terminal area of the airport.
The existing access road at Santa Ana would be regraded and spread
with gravel from the town to the terminal area (2 km).
No road work is necessary at Tarija.
Electric Power Supply
The project would provide prime and standby engine generators for
the three Beni airports. Power-generating equipment necessary at Tarija and
other locations for Navaid or Com equipment is being provided under a grant
from the UK (next page).
Potable Water Supply and Sewage Disposal
Water for the project airports would come from wells. It would be
treated before entering the distribution system. Sewage would be disposed of
by means of septic tanks and leaching fields.
Slaughterhouse
Because of the location of the proposed new runway at Santa Ana,
an existing slaughterhouse would have to be demolished. A new slaughter-
house would be constructed under the project in a more suitable location
relative to the runway and terminal area.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Engine Generator Sets - Grant Aid from United Kingdom
All engine generator sets will be dual, rated for elevation, air
cooled diesel with electric starting equipment and automatic transfer switches
and isolation switches.
Size                                 Location
10 KW                                Apolo
10 KW                                Ascension de G.
10 KW                                Camiri
10 KW                                Concepcion
10 KW                                Magdalena
10 KW                                Rurrenabaque
10 KW                                San Ignacio de M.
10 KW                                San Ignacio de V.
10 KW                                San Javier
10 KW                                San Joaquin
10 KW                                San Jose
10 KW                                Charana
25 KW                                Guayaramerin
25 KW                                Oruro
25 KW                                Potosi
25 KW                                Puerto Suarez
25 KW                                Robore
25 KW                                Yacuiba
25 KW    2 sets                      Spare
35 KW                                Cobija
35 KW                                Sucre
35 KW                                Tarija
NOTE:      One of the spare 25 KW sets should be installed at Caranavi for the
proposed VOR.
Januarv 1977



ANNEX 10
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Progress Monitoring Indices
Date Accomplished
Construction              or To Be Met
Completion of draft construction working drawings
for Tarija.                                              February 1977
Completion of draft contract documents for Tarija.         February 1977
AASANA and Bank review of draft drawings and
documents.                                               February 1977
Advertisement for interested contractors for Tarija
paving.                                                  April 1977
Completion of final contract drawings and
documents for Tarija.                                    April 1977
AASANA and Bank review of final civil works
contract documents and drawings for Tarija.              April 1977
Advertisement for prequalified consultants for
Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana.                      April 1977
Invitations to bid issued for Tarija.                      May 1977
Selection of consultants for Riberalta, San Borja
and Santa Ana.                                           June 1977
Bids opened for Tarija paving.                             July 1977
AASANA and Bank review of awards.                          August 1977
Award of contract at Tarija.                               September 1977
Notice to proceed at Tarija.                               October 1977
Completion of draft construction working drawings
for Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana.                 March 1978
Completion of draft contract documents for
Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana.                     March 1978
Solicitation of pre-qualification information.            February 1978
AASANA and Bank review of Draft drawings and
documents.                                              March 1978



ANNEX 10
Page 2
Review of pre-qualification information.                      March 1978
Completion of final contract drawings and documents
for Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana.                    May 1978
AASANA and Bank review of pre-qualified list and
final civil works contract documents and drawings
for Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana.                    May 1978
Invitations to bid issued for Riberalta, San Borja
and Santa Ana civil works.                                 June 1978
Bids opened for Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana
civil works.                                                September 1978
AASANA's recommendation for awards.                           October 1978
AASANA and Bank review of awards.                             October 1978
Award and notice to proceed at Riberalta, Santa
Ana and San Borja civil works.                             December 1978
Completion of Tarija civil works contract.                    January 1979
Final acceptance of Tarija civil works contract.              January 1980
Completion of Riberalta, Santa Ana and San Borja
civil works contracts.                                     December 1981
Final acceptance of Riberalta and San Borja
civil works contract.                                      December 1982



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Riberalta, San Borja and Santa Ana Airports Final Engineering
Short list of potential consultants prepared by AASANA.         February 1977
Short list of consultants approved by Bank.                     February 1977
Draft Terms of Reference for the Riberalta, San Borja
and Santa Ana Airports Final Engineering prepared
by AASANA.                                                    March 1977
Draft Terms of Reference for Contract reviewed by Bank.         April 1977
Fir.al Terms of Reference prepared by AASANA.                   April 1977
Final Terms of Reference approved by Bank and
Invitation to propose sent to approved short
list by AASANA.                                              April 1977
Proposals for design opened.                                    May 1977
AASANA's recommendation for award.                              June 1977
Bank review of proposed award.                                  July 1977
Award of Contract.                                              August 1977
Notice to proceed.                                              September 1977
Consultants' draft designs.                                     March 1978
AASANA and Bank review of preliminary designs.                  March 1978
AASANA and Bank approval of preliminary designs.                April 1978
Consultants' final designs and contract documents.              May 1978
Acceptance of final designs and contract documents
by AASANA and Bank.                                           June 1978



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Maintenance Equipment
Advertisement for interested contractors for airport
maintenance equipment.                                         July 1977
Completion of draft contract documents for maintenance
equipment.                                                     August 1977
Solicitation for pre-qualification information for
maintenance equipment manufactures.                            September 1977
AASANA and Bank review of draft contract documents for
maintenance equipment.                                         October 1c77
Consultants' review of pre-qualification information
for maintenance equipment manufacturers.                       October 1977
Consultants' recommendation of pre-qualified maintenance
equipment contractor list.                                     November 1977
Completion of final maintenance equipment contract
documents.                                                     November 1977
AASANA and Bank review of pre-qualified list and
final contract documents for maintenance equipment.            December 1977
Invitations to bid issued for maintenance equipment
contract.                                                      February 1978
Bids for maintenance equipment contract opened.                  May 1978
Consultants' recommendation for award of maintenance
equipment contract.                                            May 1978
AASANA and Bank review of award for maintenance
equipment contract.                                            June 1978
Award and notice to proceed with maintenance
equipment contract.                                            July 1978
Delivery of maintenance equipment.                               October 1980



ANNEX 10
Page 5
AASANA Technical Assistance and Training
AASANA to prepare Terms of Reference for technical
assistance positions for AASANA.                               May 1977
Review of Terms of Reference for TA positions by Bank.           June 1977
Search for grant funding for training by AASANA.                 June 1977
Search for TA experts by AASANA/Bank or others.                  June 1977
Review of candidates and selection of experts for TA
positions by AASANA and Bank.                                  August 1977
Mobilization of TA experts in Bolivia.                           December 1977
Preparation of training plan by AASANA and its TA
experts.                                                       September 1978
Review of training plan by Bank.                                 October 1978
Selection of trainees-by AASANA.                                 October 1978
Review of training candidates by Bank.                           November 1978
Placement of trainees in training facilities.                    December 1978
Completion of TA Training                                        End 1982



ANNEX 10
Page 6
Navaids, Com. and Tower Equipment
Advertisement for interested contractors for navigational
aids, communication and control tower equipment
manufacture and installation.                                  December 1977
Completion of draft construction drawings and contract
documents for navaids and communications.                      February 1978
Solicitation for pre-qualification information for
navaids and communications contractor.                         February 1978
AASANA and Bank review of draft navaids and
communications drawings and contract documents.                April 1978
AASANA's review of pre-qualification information for
navaids and communications contractors.                        April 1978
AASANA's recommendation of pre-qualified navaids and
communications contractor list.                                May 1978
Completion of final navaids and communications contract
drawings and documents.                                        May 1978
Bank review of pre-qualified list and final contract
documents and drawings for navaids and communications
contract.                                                      June 1978
Invitations to bid issued for navaids and communications
contract.                                                      July 1978
Bids for navaids and communications contract opened.             October 1978
AASANA's recommendation for award of navaids and
communications contract.                                       November 1978
Bank review of award for navaids and communications
contract.                                                      November 1978
Award and notice to proceed with navaids and communica-
tions contract.                                                December 1978
Completion of navaids and communications contract.               June 1980
Acceptance of navaids and communications contract.               June 1981



ANNEX 10
Page 7
Cochabamba Airport Engineering Final Design
Draft Terms of Reference for the Cochabamba Airport
Engineering Final Design prepared by AASANA.                 October 1977
Draft Terms of Reference for Contract reviewed by Bank.        November 1977
Short list of potential consultants prepared by AASANA.        November 1977
Short list of consultants approved by Bank.                    December 1977
Final Terms of Reference prepared by AASANA.                   December 1977
Final Terms of Reference approved by Bank and
invitation to proposed sent to approved short
list by AASANA.                                              February 1978
Proposals for design opened.                                   May 1978
AASANA's recommendation for award.                             June 1978
Bank review of proposed award.                                 July 1978
Award of contract and notice to proceed.                       July 1978
Consultants' preliminary design.                               December 1978
AASANA and Bank review of preliminary design.                  February 1979
AASANA and Bank approval of preliminary design.                February 1979
Consultants' final design and contract documents.              July 1980
Acceptance of final design and contract documents
by AASANA and Bank.                                          September 1980
April 1977



ANNEX 11
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions of Transport Sector Report
Bank Group Operations in the Transport Sector
1.        The Bank's first involvement in Bolivia's Transport Sector was as
executing agency for a UNDP-financed National Transport Survey (1967); this
was followed by the financing of a Pipeline Project (Loan 655-BO, September
1971, US$23 million) and two Railway Projects (IDA Credit 346-BO, November
1972, US$8 million, and Loan 1121-BO, June 1975, US$32 million). At present,
the Bank is appraising a Third Railway Project (proposed loan of US$35 mil-
lion), which would include funds for updating the National Transport Survey
and for subsequent technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination, as well as an Aviation Development Project (proposed loan of
US$25 million). To date, there has been no Bank involvement in the highway
sector.
Sector Knowledge
2.        The Bank's knowledge of railways and aviation is good and that of
pipelines is reasonable. There is a gap in knowledge regarding the overall
traffic demand as well as the ability of highways and waterways to meet the
expected demand. The overall knowledge, therefore, is not sufficient to estab-
lish the future role that each mode should play or to provide a base for the
formulation of a comprehensive transportation policy.
The Transport Sector
3.        Bolivia, as a land-locked country with adverse geography and climate
and a scattered population, presents serious resource allocation problems with
respect to the role of transport in its development. Its major commodities,
oil and gas, are transported fairly efficiently by pipelines, but its other
foreign exchange earning commodities must rely on facilities with high invest-
ment and high maintenance costs. In 1974, total freight movements in Bolivia
amounted to about 5.5 billion ton-km. Of this total, 75% was carried by pipe-
lines, 16.3% by road, 7.0% by rail, 1.1% by waterways, and 0.6% by air.
4.        Early development of the Bolivian transport network was based on
the construction of railways to serve the needs of foreign trade and the mining
sector in particular. The road network was developed later to meet the needs
of internal communication and to fill the gaps left by the railway. Air trans-
portation, which has grown rapidly in the last 10 years, serves long-distance
passenger traffic and gives access to extensive isolated areas. The two prin-
cipal river routes in Bolivia, the Ichilo-Mlamore and the Beni, are a means of
supplying the vast areas in the north and northeast, especially for heavy and
non-perishable goods, and Lake Titicaca serves as a navigable link with the



ANNEX 11
Page 2
southern Peru railway and the Pacific port of Matarani. Pipelines is the
latest mode that became developed.
Transport Modes
5.         By far the most important individual transport mode in Bolivia is
the pipeline, which accounts for a very high share (75%) of freight transport
(in ton-km). This reflects both the importance of the petroleum industry and
the relatively low level of development of the rest of the economy. The state
oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines and 754 km of gas pipelines.
Compared with this system, the road network of about 38,000 km is much larger,
but only 1,166 km are paved and 6,559 km have gravel surface. The railway
system is about 3,400 km long, and the river system measures about 1,600 km.
The national airline, LAB, has a route network of about 27,800 km, of which
11,000 km are within Bolivia.
6.        Most of the country is accessible by only one transport mode; for
large areas of the country, access is available only at high transport cost
or with poor service, or both. Topography and the quality of the transport
infrastructure place serious restrictions on the vehicles that can be used,
i.e., 5-6 ton trucks on most roads, 25-40 ton barges on the rivers, turbopro-
peller aircraft of 5 tons payload at most airports and relatively short trains.
Although improvements, particularly for railways and aviation, are being made,
many of the vehicles (e.g., trucks, barges and aircraft) have not been main-
tained properly and are clearly overaged. Bolivia has about 17,500 trucks
with a carrying capacity of 88,000 tons. The river barges have a total
capacity of some 3,000 tons; 50 aircraft, about 300 tons; and 1,950 railway
wagons, about 43,000 tons. These numbers are only roughly indicative, due to
the number of vehicles out of service, e.g., about 40% for the railway wagons
and a similar, but less serious, situation for both aircraft and barges.
Other factors are the speed of the vehicles (25-30 km/hour for trucks) and the
amount of idle time since vehicles are used for storage. These differences
would have to be taken into account in any estimate of productivity by trans-
port mode. Passenger traffic is served by some 50,000 light vehicles, 4,000
buses, eight aircraft in scheduled air services, 188 railway passenger cars
and hydrofoils on Lake Titicaca.
7.        Traffic data are incomplete, particularly for intercity road trans-
port. Apart from the specialized role of pipeline transport, road transport
accounts for 65% of the remaining transport effort as compared to 28% for the
railways and small contributions by river, lake and air transport (about 2%
each). Intercity passenger transport by railway in 1975 totalled about 832,000
passengers for the Western System and 317,000 passengers for the Eastern
System; this may be compared to 463,000 domestic air passengers. Intercity
road transport is probably more important than other modes of transport, but
very uncertain in view of the large number of unaccounted-for travellers by
truck.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
8.        A common major problem for all transport modes (except possibly
lake) is the lack of supporting infrastructure coupled with poor maintenance
of existing infrastructure. This is a serious matter since it limits the
use of larger, more economical vehicles and decreases average utilization.
Transport Planning and Coordination
9.        The Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aviation (MTCCA)
is responsible for formulating, directing and executing policy. The invest-
ment proposals of MTCCA are reviewed by the National Economic and Planning
Council (CONEPLAN) to determine the overall level of investment in light of
national priorities. At present, only four of the five transport modes are
fully under the jurisdiction of MTCCA: highways, railways, aviation and
waterways. Pipelines are under the jurisdiction of Yacimientos Petroliferos
Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB), which, in turn, reports to the Mlinistry of Energy
and Hydrocarbons.
10.       A National Transport Survey for Bolivia, financed by UNDP, was com-
pleted in 1969, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency. It proposed a
program for integrated transport development over the following ten years,
and those projects which were justified in the Survey have mostly been started
or are included in the 1976-1980 National Development Plan. One of the
Survey's main recommendations was that a Directorate of Planning and Coordi-
nation (DPC) should be created. The Directorate was created and, for a time,
was attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning, but is now in
MTCCA. As a means of achieving better planning and coordination, the Bank, in
1972, assisted in the preparation of terms of reference for a UNDP-financed
technical assistance program to strengthen this Directorate.
11.       This UNDP-financed program of technical assistance to the Direc-
torate of Planning and Coordination, with ECLA acting as executing agency,
was begun and cancelled in 1976, due to lack of funds, after only partial
implementation.
12.       The gap in knowledge regarding transport facilities and equipment,
their condition, age and ability to meet expected demands is serious, espe-
cially for highways and waterways. Although many individual project studies
have been undertaken, there has been no real coordination among them. Accord-
ingly, the Government has decided that DPC, with the help of consultants,
should update the National Transport Survey. The main objectives of this
National Transport Survey would be to:
(a) analyze and project the transport demand in relation to
planned development of the economy;
(b) review existing capacity and operations;



ANNEX 11
Page 4
(c) determine the role of each mode in relation to the demand;
(d) recommend policies and operational improvements designed to
make best use of existing and future capacities;
(e) prepare a program of investments necessary to improve and
expand capacities to meet projected demands;
(f) recommend measures for the strengthening of DPC under MTCCA
and develop a new organization and staffing plan for it;
(g) ensure that a maximum amount of working knowledge is imparted
to the counterpart personnel, and assure that the organization
of traffic counts and other data collection exercises will be
undertaken in such a way that they can most easily be incor-
porated in the future routine work; and
(h) indicate the method of implementation for the major policy
recommendations that might serve as terms of reference for a
subsequent two-year technical assistance to DPC.
Export-Import Transport
13.       Bolivia relies heavily on exports and imports for the development
of its economy. The main exports are minerals via Peru and Chile, crude oil
to Argentina and Chile, gas to Argentina, and agricultural commodities, espe-
cially cotton and wood, to Argentina and Brazil. Recently, major sugar exports
to Chile also took place. Imports are mainly wheat and flour from Argentina
and, via Peru and Chile, iron and steel, mechanical equipment, vehicles and
other durable goods.
14.       The main carrier (except pipelines) is the railway, which, in 1975,
carried 350,000 tons of imports and 153,000 tons of exports by the western
network (mainly through Arica and Antofagasta) compared to imports of 167,700
tons and exports of 89,600 tons by the eastern network.
15.       External transport facilities assume special importance in the
economy of the nation since most imports and the exports of high-bulk ores
and certain farm commodities depend on efficient, low-cost transportation and,
especially, on access to the Pacific ports of Antofagasta, Arica and Matarani.
Another related problem is that Bolivia's potentially most significant export
markets in South America--represented by such cities as Lima, Santiago, Buenos
Aires, Asuncion, Montevideo, Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro--are located at
great distances from La Paz, ranging from 1,100 to 2,800 km by air and even
farther by overland and river routes.



ANNEX 11
Page 5
Sector Objectives and Strategy
16.       The Government's present Five-Year Plan (1976-1980) includes, as
major goals, the expansion of the main export sectors--hydrocarbons and
minerals and agriculture and agro-industries--in order to break the foreign
exchange constraint to development. The plan recognizes that infrastructure
such as transport and communications is basic to the country's development
and is given high priority. The latest Economic Memorandum on Bolivia (March
23, 1977) concurs with this view. The targets for transport call for invest-
ments in projects already started of about US$475 million, excluding pipelines:
56% for highways, 23% for railways, and 21% for aviation. Some 62% of these
investments are in foreign exchange. In addition to these projects already
under way, the Government has under study some US$439 million in possible
projects. The Five-Year Plan does not include capital investments for water-
ways, which are relatively minor.
17.       From the Five-Year Investment Plan (1976-1980), it appears that the
Government's major objectives for the Transport Sector are:
(a) Roads: extension of the road network;
(b) Railroads: rehabilitation and modernization of the National
Railroad System to allow more efficient operation and to
continue its financial viability; and
(c) Air Transport: improvement and construction of airport
facilities and improvement of the air navigation system to
provide all-weather availability of most airports.
18.       The pipeline subsector has proposed new investments for 1976-1980
of some US$799 million, which would extend the pipeline network and increase
throughput over existing lines.
19.       The Five-Year Plan addresses itself primarily to new construction
with no added emphasis being given to rehabilitation and maintenance of the
existing network (para. 20), particularly in the road subsector. Since the
transportation investments are large, and may even be excessive, continued
sector planning and coordination are required to ensure that the projects
under study are justified in their overall content and are well-timed. Since
even the transport investments already' committed are ambitious, it is likely
that most of these projects under study cannot be carried out in the 1976-1980
period. In considering the development needs of the country, it should be
recognized, however, that not all the perceived investments will necessarily
be economically justified, but each should be a least-cost solution. In
particular, duplication of services, i.e., parallel road and rail lines,
should be avoided.



ANNEX 11
Page 6
Bank Group Contribution
20.       The Transport Sector Mission identified several maintenance and
investment requirements (particularly for rehabilitation) in the Bolivian
transport sector; it has also pointed out the need for updating the National
Transport Survey and for strengthening the Directorate of Planning and Coordi-
nation under MTCCA. The Bank's main objective is to assist in high priority
infrastructure projects and to guide in the selection of a future investment
program as yet only partly defined, i.e., projects under study estimated to
cost US$439 million. This two-part objective would not only deal with overall
transport coordination, but to be effective, would also approach, at the same
time, the most important of the individual transport modes. The Bank's
previous involvement with railways and pipelines will now be broadened by
projects in aviation and, possibly, in roads. A focus will be put on the
selection of projects meeting the development strategy, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the present system with emphasis on the Government-provided
infrastructure and upgrading of managerial capability to perform these tasks.
21.       The Bank's immediate measures to assist the Government in reaching
these objectives in the transport sector should be the provision for financing
the foreign exchange component of:
(a) the updating of the National Transport Survey and subsequent
technical assistance to the Directorate of Planning and
Coordination under the proposed Third Railway Project (para.
21 (c)) at an estimated cost of US$1.5 million equivalent;
(b) the technical assistance for highway maintenance funded under
the proposed Third Railway Project (para 21 (c)) at an estimated
cost of US$0.5 million equivalent (para. 22);
(c) investments included in ENFE's Five-Year Investment Plan
(1977-1981) which are to be committed in 1977 and 1978, and
the continuation of the ongoing program of technical assis-
tance to ENFE with an estimated cost of US$32.9 million
equivalent also in the proposed Third Railway Project;
(d) assistance to AASANA for airport construction; provision of
technical assistance to AASANA; electronic equipment; construction
equipment for runway maintenance; design of works at Cochabamba.
The estimated total cost is US$39.5 million, with a Bank contribu-
tion of US$25.0 million equivalent in the proposed airfields project.
22.       During discussions with the Transport Sector Mission, the Government
authorities requested Bank assistance in the field of highway maintenance.
The proposed initial project is a Pilot Project in three separate districts
(La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz) of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos (SNC).
April 1977



AlNNEX 12
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Details of the Economic Evaluation
1.        The most important economic benefits are derived from the use of
more efficient aircraft or from more efficient utilization of existing air-
craft. The basic costs are derived from current aircraft used by Lloyd
Aereo Boliviano and the major non-scheduled cargo airlines. These data have
been compared with cost experience in other countries, particularly the
United States. The costs have all been referred to 1975 price levels.
Similarly, the traffic composition and route lengths have been the latest
available. For each airport, passengers and air cargo were multiplied by
weighted averages of travel distances and by the differential in aircraft
costs.
2.        These estimates are based on conservative assumptions.  First, rela-
tive costs for old aircraft will increase overtime when spare parts become
more difficult to obtain and maintenance and fuel consumption increase.
Second, the benefit data all relate to price levels of 1975 whereas the proj-
ect economic costs are mid-1976. Third, with improved aircraft and better
services, the average stage length for passengers and, to a certain extent,
for air cargo, will increase.
3.        The basic direct operating cost data for the main types of aircraft
are the following:
Boeing       Fairchild    Douglas    Curtiss   Convair
B-727-100        F-27          D-C3       C-46    CV-580
------------------------____   US$-
Block hour cost           1,032             427        357        400        482
Cost per ton-km                         used for
performed                 .2012        pass. only  1.1357       .3300      .2754
Cost per pass-
km performed              .0243           .0664      .0978     used for cargo only
4.        The average distances used are the following in km:
Tarija        Riberalta      San Borja    Santa Ana de Yacuma
Passengers        488              365            232              209
Cargo             488              752            232              440



ANNEX 12
Page 2
5.        Present delays can be caused either on the ground or enroute.
Diverted flights normally mean additional time enroute, whereas cancel-
lations normally mean non-productive time for an aircraft on the ground.
For delays, cancellations or diversions in this economic evaluation, the
benefit-per-hour for better electronic equipment for communications and
navigation or runway maintenance equipment has been assumed as the average
revenue per block hour less variable costs for an F-27 (i.e., US$700-US$363 =
US$337). For diversions or delays caused by airport conditions, the block
hour cost for F-27 (US$427) or C-46 (US$400) has been used.
6.        The differentials in cost between expected future aircraft and
current (1975) aircraft use have been converted to an average cost per
passenger or ton of cargo for each airport. Average costs for aircraft
include depreciation to reflect more accurately the gradual changes from
one type to another of aircraft which are in the present fleet. No new
aircraft are expected to be needed only for the relatively limited traffic
at project airports. Without the project, additional second-hand aircraft
may have to be purchased. The effect of this is likely to understate bene-
fits more than the slight overstatement due to generated traffic by the
project.
7.        These have been multiplied by forecast passenger volumes or cargo
tonnages. The delays, cancellations or diversions have been estimated from
LAB and AASANA daily records for 1975. For non-scheduled aircraft, only the
diversions from San Borja have been possible to ascertain. These delays have
been assumed to grow in the same proportion as traffic over the project period.
8.        The economic life of the airports has generally been assumed at 19
to 22 years, with the exception of San Borja at 12 years due to the possibil-
ity of competition from improved road connections from this community, which
may change the character of the airport. The physical life of the electronic
equipment and the runway maintenance equipment has been assumed at 11 and 5.5
years, respectively. No residual values have been assumed.
9.        For Riberalta, the site of existing airport land close to builtup
parts of the town is expected to yield US$600,000 in today's prices and is
included as a benefit in 1981. For Santa Ana de Yacuma, the yearly avoided
cost of maintaining the airport has been estimated at US$100,000 based on works
carried out in 1975-1976 which, in the absence of the project, would have to
be carried out annually.
April 1977



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BOLIVIA
AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Assumptions
1.        Revenues, expenses and capital costs are stated in constant values
(1976), but include price contingencies for project capital costs.
2.        Tariffs used are in accordance with the revised User Charges of
AASANA, which became effective in August 1975. Commencing with the year 1977,
the date of project implementation, total revenues have been increased as
follows based on expected tariff increases (para 6.08);
Individual Increase      Cumulative Increase
1977                 20%                      20%
1979                 20%                      44%
1980                 10%                      58%
1982                 10%                      74%
1984                 10%                      92%
3.        Wages were increased at 2% per year to allow for increased require-
ments resulting from greater traffic.
4.        Other expenses were increased at 2% per year to allow for the require-
ments resulting from increased AASANA operations.
5.        Depreciation employed is in accordance with the depreciation policy
established by the Government.
(a) Civil works (runways, buildings, access roads, fences) - 2.5%
commencing when the facilities are expected to be in use.
(b) Aviation equipment (communications, navigational aids, lights) -
10% commencing when the facilities are expected to be in use.
(c)  Maintenance equipment - 20% commencing when the equipment is
received and in use.
6.   Maintenance:
(a)  Civil works after 1976 - 1% of replacement cost per year.
(b)  Aviation, ground maintenance, and firefighting equipment -
5% of replacement cost per year.
(c) In 1975 and 1976, minimal required to operate existing aircraft.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
7.        Terms of the Bank loan:
Repayment over 20 years, including a grace period of four-and-
one-half years at an interest rate of 8.2%.
January 1977



BOLIVIA AVIATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Organization of AASANA and Related Government Entities
|  Nat,onal                     n |    eIsy of Transport   |
Aviation                  Communications and
Council                   Civil Aviation
|    Sub-SecretLrA
T,ansp.rt and                Board of Directors                                        lodAee
Civil Aviation  Aerial Work         Aviation
t- ---- -f- .-  -. --------------- Eeuie-------------------T                                                             ------------------
Director
Council of Executive
Coordination
|Accounting | rTreasury  |           n|  5                                                              A aud|in
~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                                                                                                                                                                               I~~~~~~u a
I                                                                                                                                                            I
o  ratons                                                                                                              ectron
.                                       ,_..                                                                                                         I        .I
niorm.tio           Sui s &           Corio &r    |                            Eectroo
ca  l             eeorologY
|                t~~~~omniain Informat           ion
* Rional Ofe                                               S |ionas ce  |  |      eiona    ce                      Regional Office
* La P          ||Ccamba                              ||Snta Cruz                           ||Trinidad
r Arons                                 r |   iprts                          r |   iprts   ||Airports
'Technical exPeI funded by the Worlmt  Bank loanM
World Bank-16840






IBRD-12654
r       - ::  ...~ ~~~~~~~~. .    . .  ........   .          . 4...   .... ....  .. .    . - . ..                    ..                      f  X    fz
B  R  A-so 1-.B                                                                                            A
AM- ITON   MO CT,
COBIJA                  >                   < t RIBlRAL-
\       ,        Sr          - It. _ ' ' . ' - '     '  '         - - '        AIO+  -    IA A~
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~Sao0 Ram6rr   Maigdolena
0IIAA                      Santa An,                                                                                     
"'_/5' i / $5  _ f:, , .,,.Re   . .          0
/           ~~~~~Ru  beqaue
(  ApoQVi       U                Son ~gci deMoe    TRINIDAD
r                                                 4~~~~~~~~~~0o
,  :  - *   f                /              a                    , .,,,, ., .   ' 'S r Borja              ES
Ascensiiirr~
T  /,4 A                                  ,4.A,>                               L  
. 4K4  !                   fy   ?                  Sar Ra    o        d Guaroyos
i           ,                                                                                Concepc4cIn  San Ignaci ,-de Velosco
iJ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~air Ciee                                                                      SaanaAO   
TO C.                 LA PAZ \   g        R      TodosSants                       vie
.uaquacqe:                                                ,2                     
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AooD;.,.SnIncoeoos                                                                                                                           Ki+IA X\..
,  O -l;ASaM Borja                                       CRUZ
~~~.            O~~~ ~~RUR                iquil
nria (  X\\Robo                                                                                                /
ika                                                                                                                                                  ReKtr |  \  Ascenstrno t
fo~~~~~~~   ~~~~ Guqu     Mul t
Gamin .'                  /  ~.-AR  AG  U A Y
Tl /z /RioMuluta   ni                           %                  T 
c i - - ) t Ouech,sla ) \~~~~~~~ ....-. ... . .                                             =2    =    6=
<   0   4                              >TA1<JA            t      \X0      /                          : i! -
_ -                               .               f7'5 ta                   Yacuiba    E            " ;            L0OMeaos7{)l/nz
tC-fiL;EN                                                    .-.-k--'  /-<-    R MAE                                                     toe
707 < - t~ - -G; E "i T                                                      A <   *    1X 






0                                                                                                                     f                       cT
O'Z/
LJW J                                                     _                                            j9 0\                                     ,                       ef              _', ,
U  o     UE                                                       i        \                         i /             I                                      f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
- ~  ~       ~      ~     ~      - 4-- v,                                                                                      I f  - J\     1s         o
toz 
ea         N-                                                                     V               2      .                                                                       ~;                       F*X ,
<~~~ ~    ~ _                                                                                           N,S&+u                Ij U                                               
,,  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ v  ,.7\8-'  
,6           o                       _                                                                   N E      
-                ,                         DEc                                     
- -    . D  .   O  ...   .              C              m \                                      | D                       O                                                               V~~~~~~~~~~   If
'''.~~~~ ' .--' /\Sto\                                                                                     /                             g  
'~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 'N                                                                                                    \ '       tOO    /t
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                            \ _  D f                                                                     D  .'7.' ..
8 - j tq ffi  | * b r i 77                                        ~                                                         N                                  /J  /       9                     0~



