DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1351a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
January 17, 1974
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CJRRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit                  Yerlen Rtal-
US$ 1                        YR 4.50
YR 1                -        US$ 0.22
YR 1,000            -        US$ 222
YR 1,000,000                 US$ 222,200
Fiscal Year: July 1 to June 30
1/  o pa)r vniL"e has bc.. cuu:.lliea-ii i-o tche± I'. ToW:3ver the
Yemen Aral, Republl.r a  :.ed in 19702 to a provI.Sional rate of
US$ 1   YR 5. Miost f:rce Ma,t t2:allsactiona took place at
t.hat rate duc.lrig 1972. Yollovwli.m. the devaluation of the dol-
lar , the rial appreciated to a rate of US$ 1.00 = TR L.50
in February 1973.



INTERNATIONAL D)EVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOfMENDATION OF TilE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSElD CREDIT TO TlE YNEMEl ARAJB RE.PUBLIC
FOP AN INDUSTPIAL ESTATE Pi`OJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic for the equivalent of US$2.3
million on standard IDA terms to help finance an industrial estate project.
A portion of the credit ($0.8 million) would be relent to the Industrial
Estate Development Authority for 25 years, including 6 years of grace,
with interest of 9 percent ner annum. A second portion ($0.6 million) would
be relent to the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development at not less
than 7 percent per annum for an average term of 7 years.
PART I - ThE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Development in the Yemen Arab Republic"
(98a-YAR), dated June 18, 1973, and based on the findings of an economic mis-
sion which visited the Yemen Arab Republic in September/October 1972, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 28, 1973 (R73-161). A country
data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        The present Yemen Arab Republic was established in 1962, replacing
the ruling Iman and his oligarchy, under whom Yemen had remained almost com-
pletely isolated from the rest of the world. Lack of internal transport and
communications facilities has contributed to the continuing isolation of many
parts of the country. Since 1962, Yemen has witnessed a long civil war (1962-
1970), frontier clashes with the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, drought,
and subsequent famine in certain areas (1969 and 1970).
4.        Political integration has been hindered by tribal differences.     The
end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhis in a stronger and more independ-
ent position than before. This fragmentation of power, combined with the ab-
sence of institutions and of trained cadres at the central government level,
has greatly hindered the government's ability to formulate national economic
objectives, tax adequately and otherwise direct the economy, and carry out a
program of economic development.
5.        Despite these problems, coalition governments have made considerable
progress since early 1970 in introducing basic elements of modern government.
Within the past two years, Yemen has elected its first national legislature,
established a central bank, organized a national planning and statistical
agency and a public works authority, and improved its revenue performance.
The Government produced its first budget in 1973. Four commercial banks be-
gan operation in 1971-72 (bringing the total number to five), and the Govern-
ment has been successful in soliciting increased external assistance from



- 2 -
Eastern, Western, and Arab sources. In November 1972, an agreement was signed
at Tripoli between the governments of the two Yemens; this agreement aims at
a merger between the states and improved the prospect that greater attention
can now be given to the task of economic development.
6.        Yemen is among the least developed countries in the world.    Over
90 percent of its estimated 5-6 million people are engaged in agriculture.
Although there are still only a few hundred thousands living in cities and
large towns, a pattern of urban migration is beginning to develop. Yemen's
cities still lack most public services. Neither Yemen's capital city, Sana'a,
or port city, Hodeida, has municipal water supply systems, and electric power
supply is unreliable. In other forms of infrastructure, considerable pro-
gress has been made in building a national road network and other transport
facilities over the last decade, and development of the primary highways
should be completed by 1974. However, Yemen remains extremely underdeveloped
in virtuallv every other form of economic and social infrastructure, and in
most forms of institutional and administrative capacity. The most basic con-
straints to development and the country's ability to absorb aid are the lack
of skills (technical, entrepreneurial and managerial), the lack of institu-
tions, and the meager quantity and quality of the country's resource base
and the information concerning it.
7.        Land and water are both very scarce in Yemen, yet agriculture ac-
counts for perhaps three-fourths of GDP. Farmers are industrious, and land
and water resources are carefully husbanded, with well-planned terracing and
irrigation work. Cereals for local consumption are the principal crops, while
very modest amounts of cash crops are exported; rock salt comprises the only
significant non-agricultural export. These exports have long been stagnant,
and there seems little prospect for much growth in the near future. Food
imports, on the other hand, increased rapidly in recent years. Improved
rainfall in the past two years has narrowed the food gap in the countryside,
but the trade deficit in food products has contintied to mount.
8.        Yemen's known non-agricultural resources are very limited.     Unlike
most countries of the Arabian peninsula, Yemen has no known oil resources.
No basic resource survey has been made, and except for rock salt, no minerals
are known to exist in commercial quantities.
9.        Until a few years ago, industry was virtually non-existent.     Recent-
ly a number of factories have been built in the main cities, the larger ones
mostly with foreign aid. There appear to be good prospects for industrial
expansion especially in agricultural processing and in light manufacturing
for construction and domestic consumption.
10.       The overall economic situation has improved substantially since
about mid-1970, due to the end of the civil war, a substantial inflow of
capital and entrepreneurs from the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen,
improved rainfall, and large injections of foreign aid in support of both
current and capital expenditures. Production in the countryside rose subs-
tantially in 1971 and 1972 (mainlv due to better weather), and there has been
a boom in construction and consumption in Yemen's cities.    Urban growth has
been supported bv large private remittances from Yemenis working abroad (over



-3-
$90 million in 1972), by inflows of private capital and higher public expend-
itures. The large inflows of both public and private capital and transfers
in 1972 contributed to the accumulation of cash balances by the government
and to a stabilization of the free exchange rate of the Yemeni rial. However,
the rising foreign assets and expanding credit to the private sector contri-
buted to continuing inflationary pressures.
11.       Yemen's recent fiscal performance has been mixed.    Current revenues
have more than doubled in the past two years, despite fundamental social and
political constraints on tax capacity. Nevertheless, the current budgetary
deficit continued to widen as current expenditures increased even more.
Budgetary support (largelv from Saudi Arabia) was equivalent to almost 30 per-
cent of total current expenditures in FY72, while development expenditures con-
tinued to be financed almost entirely from foreign aid. Foreign project and
commoditv aid commitments in FY71 and FY72 averaged almost US$20 million an-
nually. Yemen's budgetary and balance of payments' position is extremely
vulnerable, and greater control needs to be exercised on the growth of current
expenditures. The growing prosperity of the urban sector will remain largely
dependent on remittances and capital inflows from abroad until development
efforts begin to improve productivity, establish a stronger industrial sector
and create an economic surplus in the rural sector.
Reserves and External Debt
12.       Yemen's foreign exchange reserves increased by USS10 million in
1970, by US$17 million in 1971, and by US$25 million in 1972. These increases
brought the gross foreign assets of the Central Bank to over $100 million as
of June 30, 1973. Of this amount, only US$46 million represented free re-
serves, the balance being in blocked accounts with the Central Bank of Egypt.
Free reserves were equivalent to slightly more than 5 months of imports at
current levels.
13.       The external public debt outstanding on May 31, 1973 was estimated
at US8303 million, of which US$134 million was undisbursed. The major cred-
itors were: Russia, The People's Republic of China, the Federal Republic of
Germany, and Egypt, Saudi Arabia and more recently, the Association. The
USSR, China, and Fgypt have provided interest-free loans. German and Kuwaiti
loans have been at an interest rate between 1 to 2-1/2 percent per year;
other lenders have charged 4-6 percent per annum. The debt service for
1972/73, prior to a rescheduling exercise described below, was estimated
at US$10 million, equivalent to 12 percent of estimated exports of goods
and services including remittances in 1972.   In relation to recorded exports
of goods and services, the ratio would be about 25 percent.
14.       In early 1972, the People's Republic of China agreed to postpone
debt service on its loans until 1981, and a similar agreement was reached
shortly thereafter with the USSR. As a result, the Government estimates
that actual repayment obligations for 1973 is less than $1 million. Although
the rescheduling has provided substantialrelief and most of Yemen's other
debt was contracted on quite soft terms, debt servicing obligations will soon
constitute a relatively heavv burden. Information is not yet complete on the
terms of the outstanding loans. However, the available data indicate a sharply



- 4 -
rising trend in debt servicing obligations by about 1975/76. Yemen has
very limited debt service capacity. As a least-developed country with an
already high debt burden, but with improving economic performance and an
enhanced prioritv for development objectives, Yemen has a strong case for
obtaining assistance in as concessionary a form as possible.
PART II - BANE GROUP OPERATIONS IN YENEN
15.       To date the Bank Group has had three lending operations in Yemen.
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank grants and notes
on the execution of on-going projects, as of December 31, 1973. In 1971, the
Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help finance jointly with the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development a team of planning and economic advisors. The
team, currently composed of five members, has helped create the Central Plan-
ning Organization (CPO) which is responsible for designing and carrying out
Yemen's economic development plans. The CPO is perhaps the most active and
best organized and staffed organization in the Government. It is drafting
a national development strategy and mid-term investment program, helping to
channel external aid, advising on general economic policv and identifying
and preparing investment projects. The Executive Directors approved, on
September 11, 1973, a second Bank grant of US$200,000 to make possible the
continuation and expansion of the planning team services. The Bank is also
helping to build a strong Ministry of Agriculture through the provision of
four advisors, financed by the UNDP with the B4nk as Executing Agency. The
Chief of Mission arrived in Yemen in October 1973.
16.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the es-
sential prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills and
physical infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive
sector--agriculture. In June 1972, IDA extended a Credit of US$7.7 million
equivalent for a Highway Project. The project has helped create a national
Hlighway Authority, provided equipment for road maintenance and feeder road
construction, and financed feasibility studies and detailed designs of import-
ant highwav links. An important secondarv road from Taiz to Turba will also
be constructed under the project. Although the project was the first IDA
Credit to Yemen, the Government has carried out its responsibilities quickly
and efficientlv.
17.       In Hlay 1973, the Association made a IJS$10.9 million Credit for the
Tihama Agricultural Development Project which will help finance: the devel-
opment of surface and groundwater irrigation works at Wadi Zabid in the
Tihama (coastal) region, the introduction of a Tihama Development Authority
and institutions for agricultural credit, extension and research, training
and a major soils and groundwater survey of the Wadi Mawr region. The proj-
ect is proceeding satisfactorily. The Kuwait Fund is financing US$6.0 mil-
lion of project costs.  An US$11.0 million Credit for an Education Project



- 5 -
was approved in July 1973. The project is an integrated program of assis-
tance with the UNDP (UNESCO, FAO, ILO), Federal Republic of Germany and
United Arab Emirates, and will help meet the most immediate needs of the
educational system. It will concentrate on improving and expanding teacher
training and secondary school education and establish the country's first
vocational and agricultural training institutions and non-formal basic edu-
cation centers.
18.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agri-
culture and public utilities; and continuing to help devise an appropriate
development strategy and investment program including special project iden-
tification and preparation work. This strategy recognizes that Yemen is
among the poorest of the 25 least-developed countries, requiring special
assistance and justifying IDA financing of a high percentage of project
costs, including local costs.
19.       One further project is being submitted to the Executive Directors
during FY1974 -- the Sana'a Water Supply Project. Project preparation activi-
ty is advanced for future projects in highways, Hodeida water supply, and
agricultural development in the southern highlands region.
20.       The Bank Group has become among the most important sources of as-
sistance to Yemen. Although the Bank Group's share in total external debt
is still less than 10 percent, IDA projects currently represent about half
of total new aid commitments. One of the major objectives of IDA lending is
to stimulate the flow of bilateral and regional organization assistance to
Yemen, and IDA's proportion of total borrowing is likely to decrease after
FY74.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
21.       UIntil 1962, Yemen had no industrial sector.   There were only trad-
itional handicraft activities that served a very limited local market, such
as weaving of textiles on handlooms, leather work and production of tobacco
powder. Ilowever, since the late 1960's when the civil war drew to a close,
industrial and commercial activity has developed rapidly. The number of new
enterprises established each year has increased from 89 in 1968, to 170 in
1970, 201 in 1972, and 184 in the first half of 1973 alone. All indications
are that this upward trend is continuing and strengthening. A number of
relatively large public sector industries have been established, with ex-
ternal aid, for textiles, cement, and food processing.
22.       The most significant growth has been in the private sector.    The
rapid expansion in the establishment of enterprises has been generated by
a commercially aware group of entrepreneurs, who are seeking investment op-
portunities particularlv in small-scale manufacturing industry. Yemen con-
tinues to be a refuge for capital and entrepreneurial talent from Aden.



- 6 -
Since the end of the civil war, some of the estimated one million Yemenis
living abroad have also returned to Yemen. This growing pool of skills is
paralleled by an increase in capital available for investment. Emigrant
remittances have more than doubled since 1970 (to about US$90 million in 1972)
and commercial bank advances have tripled. A recent survey has confirmed a
strong interest by entrepreneurs in small-scale industrial investment.
23.       Desoite its recent expansion, Yemen's industrial sector is still
very small. It employs only about one-half of one percent of the labor force,
and its value added was perhaps 2 percent of CDP in 1971. There were about
250 manufacturing enterprises with more than four workers at the end of 1971,
in a limited number of fields: Mi) construction materials, fixtures, and
furniture (54 percent); (ii) food, beverages, and tobacco (37 percent); (iii)
textiles (7 percent); (iv) other (2 percent). Average employment per enter-
prise was 12 workers, if the large, Government-owned textile mill at Sana'a
(1,43S workers) is excluded. About 75 percent of all enterprises had less
than 10 workers. However, two of the more significant developments of the
past two years have been the increase in the average size of new enterprises
and the more sophisticated products produced.
24.       The Government has had no clearly defined industrial s%:rategy.
It has proceeded on an ad hoc basis, establishing a few relatively large,
foreign-aid financed public enterprises and providing rather generous incen-
tives to (foreign and domestic) private investors.
25.       In 1970, the Government issued an investment law that provides cer-
tain incentives to private investors of foreign and national capital. It of-
fers a measure of protection to new industries with import duties ranging up
to about 30% ad valorem, but recognizes that it lacks the administrative ma-
chinery to enforce a full protectionist policy. Nevertheless, this level of
customs duty appears to provide adequate protection to the limted number of
enterprises to which it has been granted. The Government also recognizes
the long-term disadvantages of excessive protection. For Yemen, an investment
law is not enough to induce private investment in industry. There are other
impediments, such as the lack or inefficiency of public institutions that
can provide effective technical and financial assistance, and the almost
total absence of sites that have the infrastructure required for industrial
settlement. The Government is making efforts to strengthen its institutions,
provide technical assistance to entrepreneurs and develop appropriate sites
for small scale industry. The proposed project would be the major vehicle
for this promotional effort.
26.       The Ministry of Economy is responsible for industry and commerce,
and implements the Government's industrial development policy through its
Department for Industry. The Government hopes to strengthen the Ministry
through the establishment of an Industrial Promotion and Advisory Unit (IPAU).
It will be staffed with two expatriates, one economist and one engineer, whom
the Government has requested from UNDP and who are expected to be appointed



by earlv 1974. In addition, the Government plans to set up a new organiza-
tion, the Industrial Estate Development Authority (IEDA) that would build and
manage the industrial estate at Sana'a and any future estate which might be
built, and provide technical assistance to the estate tenants (including
potential tenants) in the establishment and running of their enterprises.
Availabilitv of Finance
27.       Long-term finance for private industrial investment has not been
available from Yemen's banks, which have traditionally made only short-term
advances for trade and construction. Private investors have used suppliers'
credits to finance their imported machinery. However, the liquidity of Yemen's
banks is now quite high, and the proposed project will help tap this liquidity
through the creation of a long-term credit facility available to entrepreneurs
on the estate. The proposed credit facility will be established within the
majority Government-owned Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD).
In addition, Yemen's entrepreneurs possess a pool of capital which will also
be tapped by the proposed project. A survey conducted during preparation of
the project confirmed that individual merchants and trading companies were
willing to invest YR 100,000 to YR 500,000 ($22,000 to $110,000) in small-
scale industrial ventures.
Potential for Industrv
28.       Yemen has a large balance of trade deficit.   In 1972, imports were
seventeen times larger than exports (TTS$118 million versus US$7 million),
resulting in a balance of trade deficit of US$111 million or about 25 per-
cent of Yemen's GNP. Yemen's large trade deficit indicates that there should
be a number of opportunities for domestic manufacturing through import sub-
stitution, in such areas as foodstuffs, consumer goods and building materials.
Yemen's export potential, on the other hand, should continue to be very limited,
except perhaps in a few agricultural products like cotton, coffee and hides
and skins which could be exported in partly processed form.
PART IV - TIUE PROJECT
29.       The proposed industrial estate project is a pilot project designed
to help stimulate investment in modern small-scale industry and provide a
model and pattern for future industrial development. A credit and project
summary is attached as Annex III together with a map showing the location
of the proposed industrial estate. A report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic -
Appraisal of the Industrial Estate Project" (284a-YAR) dated January 4, 1974
is being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
30.       The project is based on a report by a UNIDO small-scale industry
acdvisor to Yemen, which was revised and updated in late 1972 by UNIDO. The
project was appraised in March/April 1973. Negotiations were held in Decem-
ber 1973. The Yemen delegation was headed by Dr. Abdul Karim El-Eryani,
Chairman of the Central Planning Organization.



- 8 -
31.       The proposed project would provide:
(i)  an industrial estate of about 32,500 m2 (with provisions
for later expansion to 130,000 m2) in the outskirts of
Sana'a which will provide for the leasing of standard
factory buildings and industrial sites for individual
occupancy;
(ii) technical assistance to potential and actual occupants of
the estate, for the preparation of feasibility studies,
obtaining finance, selection of equipment suppliers, erec-
tion and start up of machinery and equipment and day-to-day
operation of enterprises; and
(iii) long-term credit facilities to entrepreneurs on the indus-
trial estate for the import of machinery and equipment.
Organization and M4anagement
32.       The estate will be built and administered by an Industrial Estate
Development Authority (IEDA) which will also provide the technical assistance
to entrepreneurs. IEDA will be an autonomous Government body under the gen-
eral supervision of the Ministry of Economy. A Board of Directors will super-
vise IEDA's administration and formulate its policies. The Minister of Eco-
nomy will be the Chairman of the Board and the Director General of IEDA will
be responsible for implementing Board decisions. Legislation establishing
IEDA was enacted in December 1973.
33.       The Government will appoint a qualified Yemeni Director General
and industrial engineer of IEDA who would be responsible for providing tech-
nical assistance to entrepreneurs. They would receive guidance and on-the-job
training from two foreign experts. Appointment of the advisor to the Director
General is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit. In addition to on-the-
job training, the Director General and industrial engineer would receive about
six months training each outside Yemen.
The Industrial Estate
34.       A site of 13 ha. (130,000 m ) in the outskirts of Sana'a alongside
the asphalted highway from Hodeida has been selected for the estate. The
Government has compensated property owners with Government land nearby and
now holds the entire site for the industrial estate free of all claims.
35.       Initially only about one-quarter of the estate will be developed.
Seven standard factory buildings will be constructed, to serve about 20
enterprises by 1979. Although the estate will be made as attractive as pos-
sible through its technical and financial services, provision of infrastructure,
etc., and favorable rental policy, it is difficult to assess how many enter-
prises will wish to settle on the estate at the beginning. Some entrepreneurs
mav prefer the anonymity of the bazaar, and may not perceive the advantages of



-9-
the estate immediatelv. Developing the estate in self-contained phases not
only minimizes the Government's financial exposure, but offers the flexibil-
ity to accelerate or slow the development of the balance of the estate, in
light of actual demand.
36.       The estate will purchase power from the Sana'a Electricity Company
at a bulk rate and sell it with a small margin to estate tenants. By late
1975, it will also be served by the public water supply system for Sana'a to
be constrlcted with the help of the Association in a water supply project
scheduled for Board consideration at the same time as the proposed project.
A public sewage disposal system is not likely to be built in Sana'a for some
time, and the estate will construct its own.
37.       IEDA will help entrepreneurs select and evaluate industrial projects
for the estate. In determining the enterprises which will be eligible for
the estate, IEDA will emphasize the economic and social impact of the enter-
prise, and determine the most appropriate technology to be used.
38.       IEDA will have its administrative building on the site.    It will
also set up a central repair shop in part of one of the standard factory
buildings for its own requirements but, against payments, its repair services
will also be available to the tenants of the estate and, to the extent possi-
ble, to outside enterprises.
39.       IEDA will receive income from (i) rent for space inside standard
factory buildings; (ii) rent for industrial sites let to entrepreneurs who
set up their own buildings; (iii) the services of IEDA's central repair shop
to estate tenants and possibly outsiders; (iv) margins earned through bulk
purchase of power and water and resale to estate tenants. The rents would
be sufficiently attractive to stimulate interest in the estate. Flexibility
will be needed in setting a rental policy. Initially, the rents will be
fixed at a level that permits IEDA to earn a minimum acceptable return on
total investment.
40.       The financial rate of return to the IEDA is expected to be about
8.3 percent if the cost of technical assistance is excluded, and 6.5 percent
if the technical assistance is included. The relatively low rate of return
is due to the modest assumptions about the rate of occupancy and rental fees
during the initial years of the estate. If the estate project is considered
as a whole -- i.e., if Phases II and III are implemented -- the rate of return
would be 13 percent and 12 percent respectively.
Credit Facility
41.       A credit facility of US$1.2 million will be established within
the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) to be financed in
equal shares by YBRD and IDA. A banking expert will be provided under the
project to work with YBRD in the establishment and operation of the credit
facility. The facility will finance up to 80 percent of the foreign exchange
cost of imported equipment for enterprises on the estate which are expected



- 10 -
to average about $80,000 per enterprise. Following the preparation of feasi-
bility studies for individual projects prepared by the entrepreneurs with
the assistance of IEDA, the YBRD will analyze the appropriateness of the
proposed financial plan and the ability of the investor to provide the stipu-
lated equity, as well as his general creditworthiness, and the suitability
of the securitys offered. The Government and YBRD will share the risk of
loan recovery. The YBRD has had no experience in long-term lending. It's
current lending volume is composed entirely of short-term advances for trade
and construction which have carried limited risk. The Government wishes to
introduce long-term lending in YBRD and provide variable experience, awithout
exposing YBRD unduely to the higher risks associated with such lending. Con-
sequently the Government has agreed to guarantee 75% of each loan made from
the credit facility. The 25% of the risk borne by the YBRD should ensure
proDer credit evaluation and debt collection efforts. The Government intends
to have YBRD assume an increasingly larger share of the risk in subsequent
phases of the project. The Government would carry the foreign exchange risk.
42.       YBRD would on-lend to entrepreneurs at prevailing short-term commer-
cial rates, plus a margin to reflect the longer maturity of the funds from
the credit facility. The relending rate is expected to be about 10 percent
initially, but could be modified, in agreement with the Association, in light
of actual operating experience. YBRD will obtain the IDA funds ($0.6 million)
for the credit facility from the Government at an interest rate three percentage
points below its average interest rate charged to entrepreneurs, or seven
percent per annum, whichever is higher. An interest spread of 3 percent should
enable YBRD to cover its operating expenses, including the local costs of the
banking expert (para. 42), and provide against bad debts. The repayment terms
of the credits made to the individual investors will be determined in accord-
ance with the financial requirements of their respective projects. Of course,
in no case will the maturities exceed the minimum expected life of the assets
financed. Conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and YBRD would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
43.       The credit facility would only serve to supplement and not to replace
the funds that are available among Yemen's potential investors. They will be
expected to provide finance for at least 20 to 30 percent of the total project
cost from their own funds; their contribution would cover the 20 percent of
the foreign exchange cost not available from the credit facility, local cost
of imported equipment, and some working capital. Additional working capital
if necessary, could be financed throuigh additional credits from any of Yemen's
commercial banks.
Project Costs
44.       The total cost of the project is US$3.3 million.    The proposed IDA
credit will finance US$1.28 million of the construction cost of the estate,
covering all but the cost of land, working capital and interest during con-
struction which will be provided bv the Government. In order to launch IEDA
on a sound financial basis, 37.5 percent (IJSS480,000 equivalent) of the IDA



funds will be passed on from the Government to IEDA in the form of equity,
and the remainder (US$800,000) as a loan, bearing 9 percent p.a. interest
and repayable over 25 years, including six years of grace. Interest during
construction (5 years) will be capitalized. Conclusion of a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Government and IEDA would also be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit.
45.       The total program of technical assistance until 1979 is estimated
to cost US$490,000 which provides for about 147 man/months of expert services
and 6 months each of training abroad for the Director General and industrial
engineer. The credit would finance the foreign exchange cost ($420,000), and
the Government will cover the local currency costs (US$60,000) of the technical
assistance to IEDA, and the YBRD the local currency cost of the banking expert
(S10,000). The UNDP is unable to provide finance for the technical assistance
component as its funds are fully committed to other high priority projects
through FY1976.
Consulting Services
46.       There are a few construction firms in Yemen with architectural
bureaus that provide engineering services, but there is only one independ-
ent Yemeni consulting firm. This firm, Yemen Industrial Consultants (YIC),
has prepared a number of feasibility studies and engineering designs, and
supervised the execution of civil works. At present, YIC is carrying out
a major engineering job together with a Canadian consulting firm, which has
commented favorably on the competence of YIC. Since knowledge of local con-
struction methods and building materials is essential for keeping construc-
tion costs low, and the cost of the contract would be modest in any case
(US$65,000), it is proposed that YIC should carry out the detailed engineer-
ing for the industrial estate, provided it submits an acceptable proposal.
Disbursement and Procurement
47.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$2.3 million would be disbursed over
six years. The estimated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex III. The
Credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent of total expenditure
for civil works and engineering services, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for technical assistance and training, and imported equipment for IEDA, 80%
of locally procured imported equipment and the ex-factory cost of locally-
produced equipment for IEDA, and 50 percent of eligible foreign expenditures
under the credit facility.
48.       Contracts for the civil works, estimated to cost $50,000 or more,
including land development and the standarcl factory buildings will be submit-
ted to international competitive bidding, in accordance with the Guidelines.
In view of the relatively small size of the contracts involved, it is unlike-
ly that any foreign firms would be interested in the bidding, except perhaps
firms that are currently operating in Yemen under other development projects.
Yemen, has ahout a dozen contractors who appear qualified for the work in
question. Small contracts of less than $50,000 each (e.g. for the fencing of



- 12 -
the estate) be awarded under local bidding procedure. Equipment orders by
IFDA and under the credit facility estimated to cost over S25,000 would be
made after offers from at least three suppliers have been obtained.
Economic Justification
50.       The project is essentially a demonstration project and an experi-
ment. It is designed to tap a growing reservoir of entrepreneurs and a pool
of capital seeking investment opportunities. It seeks to serve as a model
and set the pattern for industrial development by providing an alternative
and contrast to the bazaar. It will offer the essential capital and techni-
cal advice to encourage the growth of import-substituting small-scale indus-
try in Yeren. In economic and social terms, it will give entrepreneurs an
opportunity to improve the quality and quantity of their output through modern
production methods. For labor, the estate offers safer and healthier working
conditions. The potential value of the estate is essentially in its demons-
tration effect rather than the incremental value of production, though the
latter is expected to be significant.
51.       In a country where industrialization has barely begun, where medium-
and long-term lending has never been available before and where Government is
generally viewed with distrust, the creation of a public industrial estate
carries inevitable risks. There is the risk that the level of industrial ex-
pansion drops off for political and economic reasons. In such circumstances,
capital from the banks and entrepreneurs may dry up. Secondly, there is the
risk common to new industrial estate projects, that the incentives offered
will be insufficient to attract entrepreneurs, who may not perceive the ad-
vantages of the estate compared to their distrust of new things, desire for
anonymity and fear of higher costs associated with the industrial discipline
required on an estate.
52.       Every effort has been made to minimize the project-related risks.
Although data are limited, the available evidence indicates a continuing
strong growth in the number of enterprises in Yemen, a shift to modern small-
scale industry, a high level of consumer demand stimulated by the rapid growth
of the economy during the past three years, and considerable interest in plans
for future investment. The Government will offer a measure of protection for
local industries through tariff increases for competing products although the
level of protection will be limited (para 24). In general, the risk that in-
dustrial development overall will falter is therefore not considered great
at this stage.
53.       The estate itself has been designed to maximize its attractiveness
while limiting the financial commitment of the Government. Entrepreneurs
will be provided with technical assistance, credit, good physical facilities,
and other incentives. At the same time the construction of the estate has
been divided into three phases and only the first phase, representing about
one-quarter of the estate, will be built under the project. This will mini-
mize the Government's financial exposure.   Subsequent phases can easily be
accelerated or deferred depending on growth of demand.



- 13 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRMTENT AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Republic and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
IEDA, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the Resolution approving
the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separate-
ly.
55.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMEIDATION
56.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. HcNamara
President
Attachments
January 17, 1974






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 2 PaU-es
COUNTRY DATA - Y:jTh'.N ARAB REPUBLIC
AREA                                 POPULATION                    DENSI'TY
Roughly 75,000 nq.rm                 5-6 million (1971 est.)       65-8o per sq.m.
no cenrsu
Rate, o:C growth: 2-35s
(1960-70)
POPUIA TION C MIAP.  -RTSrsTICS                   HEALTH
Life expectancy; est. 30-4  years                 Populatiorn per physician: 20,003 est.
Ilfant, mortali-uy: about 50/.                    Population per hosipital bod: 1530-25Q0Gt
NTJT'01 TTO?N                                     EDUCATION
'Nidespread malautrition and                      Literacy: Est. 10% of total popalation
protein deficiencoy                             School enrol2ment (1971):   o,Co
GNP PER CAPITA TN 1972: $9O est.
CJTPUT1' ANTD LAPDET '1CI;TO             c of GD?              % of Labor Fcrce
Agr.cUul e r                        70-8O                      80-90
0ther sectors                       20-30                      10-20
CO\in2Nr.rlfT FTr,A;NCE (ni-llions of rials)
FY6F     FY70     FY71      F-R2
Revenues                                 TIT       73       98      151
ExréendittJre,                           122      129      171       228
Currc- P Bala:ce       1/              -70      -56      -73      -83
Develop:ioent ex.qenrlitures-             23      'F1        3 
Ovo'ra 11 Pa' ainG                   --93     -137     -156     -139
Doresti.c ba.ik financing                 70       45       37      -32
Fxt,t-rnl fCi.naariing                    23       92      119      171
Y3'"T-7 A. M-) 1DIMT  (millious of rials)
1969.    1970     1971     1972
lonley SuppP2y                           190c     230      277       2
Quazi l,;olue,>r                           5        8       36      81
Credit to private sector                  1i9      29       70     120
Niet clair'is on goverrl3isnt            118      151      110      116
1T/  aivalent to foreign project aid.



ANNE I
Page 2 of 2 pages
BAL! `;CE 01? Alillfr.sn ($S rQi.ns)
15'6';   1970      1971     1972
D-uort;                                                        U                6. 8
|Tm  LVs                                                      8 139   -72    -102.5
IiI7il_.-!bIc5 arnd worker rer1tt2n?eS              12        45       47      81.3
GaSh and Commclrdo;_i y grants                        5       18        6      18.8
I,DU, S5.i1                                    ...   .. D;         D ! lNf Ne lfl ..... -20  -13  h4.
I;o;1-ilo:'b+g>4-f 5C AJ UaDl X   .  ri       ~~   ~   ~~~~30  31  2,T
o Uvcs, c(                 s)0                                      -.18     26.8
Te  rVe PCsi,  i (s .,ilirez)
Nz3t rcE s.rvcuz o........ , 0: l'& :n tr~.X Pank g  FT1l(: '15 ..........580  95  110
( ci wich: ,VeC I i ITI)  (e I)                               (7)     (23)     141.8
R'LTGP7  F    I    (l,T< 3 0 p r r i a 1)
I ree n:;rife rate (average)                        22        18       19        20
! ,FCI` NDYSt B   O-;,  T(kIcorXdeT2/       voroX  eé,'.  969-71
Coffee                                                   3
Qat                                       o.6            16
Cottou                                    o.6            16
Hiick's a-ild s%inlS                      o.5            14
Otber                                     o.6            16
Tot al   3.7           10 3
ET,-T?V,NATL T)-,DT, JIne 3Q'Jj)72'                     U3$,n.
Public   b.    . inc l. glLranttcd,                     21l6
of' i]ulch: disbu.;sod                               (147)
I)bt' s.rvi.e due 1572/73
Debt . iervice ratio, ^zt. 19172/73                      12 -2,!
RATE OF EXCHANGE 5                              IBRD/IDA LENDING
Free Market Rates          (as at Dec. 31, 1973)          US$ min.
1972 Average  March 1973                                   IB(as am DA
1 Rial               $ 0.20      $ 0.22         Outstanding and disbvrsed       -    o.8
1 US$               YR 5.0      YR 4.5          Undisbursed                     -   2&.8
Outstanding inc1l. undismursed  -   29.6
1  . n 1uwc~ sDT .i M ;ltCj exr1or s ar:i o;!ti ssonis.
V/ on3ly akxut 5iO--6  of e..;vi;ate  ot '..oial  ecchandisc e..Y.rts are rt.,-zded.
,,/ Thioe .          £rc-n L irferct c;iir;uQ:s p;icd in ''cpt .,"Oct   972, :,. mr. .
on thc. dcbt and dcbt se)-;i.e ourcnda  as astill Ioin_- assenibled fro.n variO11S ugcce,s
i/ The clebtL service ratio :1: esti-natcd on the basis of debt s>e-vcc as % o.f P:;^jiclt.d
1972 cxmrort.s (- niudni nè unrecorded) arnd nut ir.nvisibles aad remrn.ttances. It ex-
cludes a reported rescheduling exercise with the two major aid donors, the USSR
Ain:d FeQol' ls raenunlic oI Gnin; in earlv *1972.
o/ -ro iar value has oeen comxunicated to the IivTh. However, Yemen agreed in 1972 to
a provisional rate of US$1 = YH5.
January 17, 1974



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN
THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.    Statement of IDA Credits
(As at December 31, 1973)
US$ Million
Credit                                                Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year         Borrower        Purpose        IDA              Undisbursed
315      1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways        7.7                6.9
376      1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agri-
culture      10.9               10.9
421      1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education      11.0               11.0 /1
Total                                       29.6               28.8
Of which has been repaid                      -                  -
Total now held by IDA                       29.6
Total undisbursed                                              28.8
/1    Not yet effective.
B.    Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team
of five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO)
which is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general
economic policies, identifying and preparing investment projects, and coor-
dinating external aid.   The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and acti ve public
sector organization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on September 11,
1973 a Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the continuation
of the planning team.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.    Projects in Execution 1/
Credit 315 - Highway; US$7.7 million Credit of June 26, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The Yemen Government moved very quickly to establish a Highway
Authority, appoint its Director and select three different sets of project
consultants (for technical assistance, feasibility studies and supervision
of construction). The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The feasibility
studies have recently been completed and roads for detailed engineering are
expected to be selected in January 1974. Bids for construction of the Taiz-
Turba road are being evaluated.
Credit 376 - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 million Credit of May 7, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30_, 1978.
The Development Credit was declared effective on September 4, 1973.
The Chairman and General Manager of the Tihama Development Authority have
been appointed. Consultants for preparation of designs for the Wadi Zabid
irrigation works and execution of the Wadi Maur feasibility study have been
in the field since April 1973. Field work for the topograhic mapping of
Wadi Mawr was undertaken in June-September 1973 by the United States Geo-
logical Survey. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 421 - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The terminal date for effectiveness is April 1, 1974. In the
meantime recruitment is in progress for the project implementation unit and
for the UNESCO Task Force to help strengthen the Ministry of Education. An
equipment specialist has visited nine project schools to prepare lists of
equipment to be provided under the project.
1/    These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX III
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
DEVELOPHENT CREDIT AND PROJECT SMIThARY
Borrower:           Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:             US$2.3 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Project              The proposed project would be a demonstration project
Description:       to help promote modern small-scale industry in Yemen.
It would provide potential investors with physical fa-
cilities on an industrial estate (including factory
buildings), technical assistance, and a credit facility
to help them import machinery and equipment.
Specifically, the IDA credit would help finance the
following:
(i) an industrial estate of about 32,500 m2 (with pro-
vision for expansion to 130,000 m2) in the outskirts
of Sana'a which will provide for the leasing of
standard factory buildings and industrial sites for
individual occupancy;
(ii)  technical assistance to potential investors on the
estate in the preparation of their individual proj-
ects, obtaining finance, selection of equipment
suppliers, erection and start-up of machinery and
equipment and technical help in solving day-to-day
problems during the initial critical years; and
(iii)  long-term credit facilities to entrepreneurs on
the estate for the import of machinery and equip-
ment.



ANNEX III
Page 2
Estimated Cost:
US$ Ilillion
Local           Foreign        Total
Industrial Estate (Phase I)       1.110             .550        1.660 (49%)
Technical Assistance               .070             .420         .490 (15%)
Credit Facility                     -              1.200        1.200 (36%)
Total                          1.180            2.170        3.350 (100%)
Financial Plan:
US$ Million
Government        YBRD              IDA
Industrial Estate (Phase I)          .380            _              1.280
Technical Assistance                 .060           .010             .420
Credit Facility                        -            .600             .600
Total                            .440 (13%)     .610 (18%)      2.300 (69%)
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ Million
Cumulative
FY74    FY75    FY76    FY77     FY78    FY79    FY80         Total
0.04    0.4     0.8     0.4      0.5     0.3     0.1           2.3
Procurement         Contracts of $50,000 or above for the civil works, in-
Arrangements:     cluding land developrmient and standard factory buildings,
will be submitted to international competitive bidding.
Small contracts for civil works (e.g. fencing of the
estate will be awarded under local bidding procedures.
Contracts for the supply of en uipment valued at US$25,000
or above will be awarded after offers have been obtained
from at least three suppliers.
Consultants:        Yemen Industrial Consultants (YIC) would be given the
task of preparing the detailed engineering for the
industrial estate, provided it submits an acceptable
proposal. Individual consultants would be recruited
as advisors to I17DA's Director General and industrial
engineer and as the banking specialist.
Rate of Return:     Financial rate of return to the Estate Authority for
Phase I (the Project) 8.3%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 284a-YAR
Date: January 4, 1974



IBRD 10720R
I                         ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANUARY  1974
2 %   \  4 - \  t   /  YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
RAWDDA         INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
I5r  \   |  8   /          PROJECT
2325
\  L  _;. __ncWlirRc1 Zone
IN\ '"  n Sanga Master Plar
-          ~~~~~~Sre for rioustrl Estate
./tilt-ap  oreas, 1971
)2250  Contour lines in meters
E ... Exst,ng  oads
\\ jIRAF   }               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~23nC
1302                                   '2                      / / '00
2   %S                              '2X  
"4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~71
2325,                                       ,I 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
ZJ2S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
2                              2                      sDi  . 0,       3    o 
5? N,d.,dO  i∞  i2l L OU. E T r Rs                           3 |  2 ,  ,' ET CIoPIA  's c! - -*  lb
A4irport;  N           RSAD
N   \)i,               N      'Oed  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUIARABIA
.,7~~~~~~N
SUDAN   '  .2  1   I    EEC'
RE`oe0r.   ORMEEi
11      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RILO EE C                                   tPi    2'' ~ -"
MILE              ;  - f  ~ '7>-                '  OAI



