RETURN TO                                                FILE COPY
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN
ONE WEEK
DOC        1 I_ e  INTEMAT1IiL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 284a-YAR
APPRAISAL OF THE
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
January 4, 1974
Industrial Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURREM;CY EQUIVALENTS                              MEASURES
All fi gures are quoted in Yemeni                  1 m        = 3.281 ft.
Rials (YR) or US dollars (US$). 1/                 1 m2       =  10.764 ag. ft0
1 hectare  =  10,000 min
US$ 1           =   YR   4.50                      10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
'Xi 1               US$  0.22
YR  1,000       =   US$  222
YR  1 million       US$  222,200
1/ No par value has been communicated to the fIF. Ilowever, the Yemen Arab
Republic agreed in 1972 to a provisional rate of US$ 1 = YR 5. Most free
market transactions took place at that rate duririg 1972. Following the
devaluation of the U.S. dollar in February 1973, the Yemeni Rial appre-
ciated to a rate of US$ 1 = YMR 4.5.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS
IEDA     _      Industrial Estate Development Authority
YPRD     _      Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
CPO      -      Central Planning Organization



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ...........        ............   i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .................        ,     .    .........      1
II.   PROSPECTS OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.                            2
A. General Background.                                          2
B.  Recent Industrial Development.                              2
C.   Government Strategy for Industrial Development             3
D. Availability of Finance.                                     4
E.   Potential for Export-Oriented Industry         .5
F.   Potential for Import-Substituting Industry                 5
III. THE PROJECT.                                                      8
A. General Outline.                                             8
B. The Estate.                                                  9
1. Site Selection.                                        9
2. Land Use Pattern .10
3. Utilities .11
4.   Management Complex and Common Facilities            11
5. Demand for Estate Land .11
6.   Phasing of Land Development .12
C. Technical Assistance .13
D. Credit Facility and YBRD .14
IV.  PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN   .             .16
A. Summary .16
B. The Estate .16
1. Cost Estimate .16
2. Financing Plan .18
C. Technical Assistance .19
D. Credit Facility .19
This report was prepared by Messrs. G. Becher and T. Nasu of the
Industrial Projects Department.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT ....                   21
A.    Project Implementation ..........................                 21
B.    Procurement and Disbursement  .....             ...............   21
VI.  FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                 ....................  23
A.    Capital Account  .................................                23
B.    Current Account  ..............       ..     .................    24
1.   Revenues  ...................................                24
2.    Cash Flow Forecasts  ........................               25
C.   Debt Service Coverage and Audits  ....               ............    27
D.   Financial Return ................................                  27
E.   Major Risks .....................................                   28
VII.    ECONOMIC AND OTHER BENEFITS  ..........................                  29
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ......................................                    30



TABLES
1. Number of New Enterprises by Year of Establishment and Location
2. Recorded Exports by Principal Commodities
3. Recorded Imports of Selected Goods Suitable for Local Small-Scale
Production
4. Balance of Payments Estimates
5. Technical Assistance, Manpower Requirements
6. Structure of Interest Rates
7. Industrial Estate Development Cost
8. Cost of Technical Assistance and Financing Plan
9. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10.  Expenditures for Fixed Assets, Capital Account, Phase I
11.  Revenues, Phase I
12.  Current Account, Phase I
13.  Operating Cost, Phase I
14.  Financial Rate of Return, Phase I
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Industrial Census of 1972
2. Yemen's Banking Sector and Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development
3. Site Selection
4. Preliminary Designs and Costing of Civil Works
5. The Credit Facility
MAP (IBRD 10720R)






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the establishment of an indus-
trial estate on a portion of a 13 ha (130,000 m2) site in the outskirts of
the capital city of Sana'a in the Yemen Arab Republic. The project, to which
the International Development Association (IDA) has been asked to contribute
US$2.3 million equivalent, will establish the country's first industrial
estate, and is intended to demonstrate and support the potential for modern
small-scale industry. Today, industrial activity consists primarily of
traditional workshops operating under primitive conditions with low pro-
ductivity and low wages. Since the late 60s, however, following a period of
civil war, more rapid development has taken place, and a number of enter-
prises have been set up to manufacture consumer goods and building materials.
Currently, private investment in construction, trade and services is high,
and there is increasing interest in investing in light industry.
ii.       Yemen has a large trade deficit.  Three-fourths of 1972 imports
(US$118 million vs. US$7 million of exports) were foodstuffs and manufactured
goods, and a number of the latter could be economically manufactured within
the country. The proposed project is designed to provide Yemen's would-be
entrepreneurs with industrial sites and standard factory buildings that have
all the necessary utilities, and to give them at the same time technical assis-
tance, and long-term credits for the import of machinery. Sana'a is current-
ly attracting the largest share of new enterprises, and this together with
the presence of the Government there were the main reasons for selecting
Sana'a for the first estate.
iii.      Because of its pilot character, the estate will be built in three
self-contained phases so as to provide maximum flexibility in its concept and
timing. When completed, it will provide for the leasing of 28 single story,
standard factory buildings and 10 vacant sites, the latter for entrepreneurs
who decide to set up their own buildings, in accordance with approved designs.
The standard factory buildings will be of simple design, and each will be
shared on an average by three enterprises, though flexibility in subdividing
will permit variations. Phase I, the project to be financed now and the main
object of this report, covers about one-fourth of the estate site and will
offer seven standard factory buildings and two vacant sites which, by the end
of 1979, are expected to be occupied by some 20 enterprises.
iv.       The total cost of Phase I of the estate is estimated at US$1.66
million, towards which the Government would contribute US$380,000, for the
estate land, for working capital and for interest during construction, and
IDA the remainder of US$1.28 million, for internationally-bid civil works for
development of the estate, the factory buildings and the administration center



- ii -
of the estate, and for detailed engineering services, and equipment for the
estate administration that would be procured under normal international shopping
procedures. IDA would finance all of the foreign exchange costs (US$550,000)
plus 66% (US$730,000) of the local currency costs (US$1,110,000). A total of
123 man-months of technical assistance, estimated to cost US$410,000, will be
required to establish and administer the estate and help its investors set up
and operate their enterprises. IDA would finance the foreign exchange compo-
nent of US$350,000, and the Government the local currency component of
US$60,000. A credit facility of US$1.2 million will be established within
the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) to assist the enter-
prises on the estate in financing their imported machinery and equipment.
IDA and YBRD would each contribute US$0.6 million. YBRD is a majority govern-
ment-owned bank that is at the same time the development bank for government
projects and Yemen's largest commercial bank. A total of 24 man-months of
technical assistance, estimated to cost US$80,000, will be required to intro-
duce YBRD to appropriate procedures of handling long-term credits to small-
scale industry. IDA would finance the foreign exchange component of US$70,000,
and YBRD the local currency component of US$10,000. IDA's contribution to the
project would thus total US$2.3 million.
V.        An Industrial Estate Development Authority (IEDA) will be created
to plan, set up, and run the estate and any future estates that might be
built elsewhere in Yemen, and to provide technical assistance to the estate
tenants. A Board of Directors representing the Government and the private
sector will supervise IEDA's administration and formulate its policies. Day-
to-day operations will be carried out by a Yemeni Director General who will
be assisted by a Yemeni industrial engineer. The technical assistance program
provides for a management advisor and an industrial engineer who will guide
and assist the two Yemenis. The program also provides for the training of the
two Yemenis of six months each outside the country.
vi.       In order to start off IEDA on a sound financial basis, it would
receive from the Government US$480,000 out of the IDA Credit portion of
US$1.28 million as equity, and the remaining US$800,000 as a loan of 25
years, including 6 years of grace, at 9% interest. This, together with the
Government's contribution of land and working capital to IEDA's equity, will
give IEDA an initial debt/equity structure of 60/40. The funds for technical
assistance from IDA (US$350,000) and from the Government (US$60,000) would
be given to IEDA as a grant. Initially, it is not intended to charge enter-
prises for the technical assistance they receive, so as to ensure that full
use is made of it. However, as the entrepreneurs increasingly come to
appreciate the benefits that they can derive from the technical assistance,
IEDA will begin charging fees for the technical assistance provided.
vii.      Since the estate is an innovation in Yemen, and there is no experi-
ence to build on, modest assumptions had to be used regarding the rate of
occupancy and rental fees that could be charged. This is reflected in a
relatively low financial return for Phase I of the estate of 8.3% in real
terms, excluding the cost of technical assistance; or 6.5% including it.



- iii -
Calculations for Phases II and III which by necessity had to be very tentativ
show that the incremental return of Phase II (13%) and of Phase III (12%)
would be markedly above that of Phase I and would bring the overall return of
the project to 11.5%.
viii.     Individual investments in machinery and equipment and working
capital by enterprises on the estate are expected to vary widely but are
assumed to average around US$130,000. The average CIF cost per enterprise
of imported machinery and equipment is estimated to be US$80,000. Long-term
loans would be made from the credit facility to finance up to 80% of this
cost. The entrepreneurs would be expected to finance 20% to 30% of their
projects from their own funds, to cover the cost of machinery and equipment
not met by the credit facility and some of the working capital needs.
Additional working capital could be borrowed from any of Yemen's commercial
banks. The interest rate on the loans from the credit facility would be
acceptable to the Association, and would not be less than the prevailing
rate for short-term advances plus a margin to account for the longer maturity
of the loans. IDA would disburse its funds pari passu and in equal shares
with YBRD. YBRD would pay an interest rate on the IDA funds that would be
not more than 3 percentage points below the average interest rate charged on
the loans, but in no case less than 7% p.a. Since YBRD has no experience in
long-term lending to small-scale industry, the Government has agreed to
guarantee 75% of each loan made from the credit facility. The interest
spread retained by YBRD should be sufficient to cover YBRD's operating
expenses, including the local currency cost of the banking expert, and the
25% of bad debts to be covered by YBRD. The IDA funds of US$70,000 for
technical assistance would be given to YBRD as a grant.
ix.       The project is being recommended for its demonstration effects; it
will provide a model and a pattern for future industrial development. What
is being attempted involves a shift in the milieu in which industrial activit:
takes place in Yemen. Such a fundamental change is inherently risky. The
risk that the attractions of the estate and its attendant incentives are in-
sufficient to call forth the response of entrepreneurs and that hence inade-
quate numbers of enterprises will locate on the estate, is not judged to be
unduly high, and has been reduced through the proposed phasing of the estate.
Nevertheless, in a country at Yemen's stage of development, the obstacles to
be overcome by any industrial project are great, but the potential benefits
are also great. The estate will make it easier for Yemen's would-be entre-
preneurs to establish modern small-scale enterprises, and will provide
an opportunity to improve the quality and quantity of their output through
the institution of modern production methods, properly directed to meet
Yemen's economic and social needs. For labor, the estate offers the prospect
of safer and more healthful working conditions, plus a better opportunity to
raise productivity and increase income.
x.        With the agreements reached (listed at the end of the report), the
proposed project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$2.3 million equivalent.






YEIEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Since the beginning of the 1970's, the pace of development has
picked up in the Yemen Arab Republic.  Highways and telecommunication facili-
ties have been built and projects for the development of agriculture and edu-
cation initiated. The Government is now encouraging private investment in
small-scale, import-substituting industry, for which the time seems
appropriate.
1.02      There are products that could be economically manufactured in the
country on a small scale. Yemen's merchants have accumulated funds that
they are interested to invest in such manufacturing. The proposed project
of a first industrial estate at the capital city of Sana'a (Map, IBRD 10720R)
aims at providing them with the infrastructure, technical and financial
assistance, and at developing appropriate institutions to stimulate private
industrial investment. Until very recently, "industry" in Yemen was limited
to traditional handicraft. The estate would form the basis for a "quantum
jump" in the industrial experience of the country through the establishment
of small-scale industry in a modern environment, and should have a demonstra-
tion effect for future industrial development.
1.03      In 1970, the Government asked the United Nations Industrial Develop-
ment Organization (UNIDO) to help outline a plan for the promotion of industry.
UNIDO recommended the establishment of industrial estates at each of Yemen's
three main towns, Sana'a, Hodeida, and Taiz. The Government decided to start
with one estate, and thus determine the reaction of industrial investors in
Yemen to the idea of providing a package of developed land, preconstructed
factory space for rent, and technical assistance, and gain experience with
estate administration before embarking on the other two. In 1972, the
Government approached the International Development Association (IDA) to
assist in the detailed preparation of the project and its financing. In re-
sponse, IDA provided terms of reference for further preparatory work by UNIDO
to determine the feasibility of the project.
1.04      This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission to Yemen
in March/April 1973, consisting of Messrs. G. Becher and T. Nasu of the
Industrial Projects Department, and Mr. M. Hasan, a civil engineer, seconded
by UNIDO. Additional work was done in Yemen in August, 1973 by I. Serageldin,
an architect by training, of the EMENA Region, to standardize civil works
and simplify designs of the factory buildings, thus reducing these important
items in project costs. This report proposes an IDA Credit of US$2.3 million
equivalent for the industrial estate and related technical and financial
assistance to small-scale enterprises on the estate.



- 2 -
II. PROSPECTS OF INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
A. General Background
2.01      Yemen is one of the world's least developed countries.  GNP per
capita is about US$80. The vast majority of its six million people depends
on subsistence agriculture. The country is very poor in known mineral re-
sources. Agricultural land and water are scarce. Long-run development will
need to be supported by industry and commerce. Because of the pressure on
land, an estimated one million Yemenis have left the country and are working
abroad, primarily in other Arab countries. Since the end of a civil war
(1962-1970), Yemen's economic situation has improved markedly; there has been
an inflow of substantial external aid from Eastern, Western and Arab sources
and of rapidly increasing remittances from Yemenis working abroad. Some
entrepreneurs and capital came from the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen because of political conditions there. Foreign commercial banks estab-
lished branches in Yemen in 1971-1972. These developments have led to a gen-
erally high level of confidence among Yemen's business community and stimu-
lated strong private investment in construction, trade, and service enterpris-
es; and there is a growing interest in investing in light manufacturing indus-
try.
B. Recent Industrial Development
2.02      Yemen's industry employs less than 0.5Z of the labor force, and its
value added was perhaps 2% of GDP in 1971. But since the late 1960's, when
the civil war drew to a close, the recorded number of new enterprises in
traditional handicraft, modern manufacturing, mining and quarrying, power
generating and certain services 1/ established each year has been increasing
from 65 in 1967, to 170 in 1970 and 201 in 1972 (Table 1), and all indications
are that this upward trend is continuing and strengthening.
2.03      Equally important is the increase in the average size of individual
private investments in manufacturing and in the number of workers per new
enterprise that can be observed as investments are moving toward the manu-
facturing of more sophisticated products. In the 1960's, enterprises were
set up to manufacture very simple products, such as cement tiles and furni-
ture, but in recent years enterprises have been established using modern
production processes and producing items such as plastic footwear, steel
trunks, sweets, wire nails, parts for water pumps, and a tannery.
2.04      The paucity of statistical data makes economic analysis and project
evaluation in Yemen difficult. A statistical agency was set up in 1971. In
early 1972, this agency carried out a census of industry, covering all enter-
prises with more than four workers in manufacturing, mining and quarrying,
power generating, car repairs and printing. The census results are described
in detail in Annex 1. They show that by the end of 1971, Yemen had 237 manu-
facturing enterprises, all of which fell into one of the following four
1/   The included service enterprises are car repairs and printing.



- 3 -
categories: (a) construction materials, fixtures, and furniture (54%); (b)
food, beverages, and tobacco (37%); (c) textiles (7%); and (d) other (2%) 1/.
Average employment per enterprise was 12 workers, excluding a large government-
owned textile mill (financed by the People's Republic of China) at Sana'a
(1,438 workers). About 75% of all enterprises had fewer than 10 workers.
2.05      The significant elements in the recent industrial growth are:
(a) the heightened interest by merchants in investing in manufacturing, as
evidenced in a survey conducted during the preparation of the project;
(b) the shift in investment toward modern small-scale industry, as indicated
by the increase in enterprises utilizing machinery and power, as well as by
an increase in the number of employees in the new enterprises; and (c) the
stimulation of consumers' demand that has attended the opening of the economy
starting in the late 1960's. While still in its infancy, and hence highly
vulnerable, industrial development can be expected to continue if supported
by appropriate policies and projects.
C.   Government Strategy for Industrial Development
2.06      So far the Government has not had a clearly defined program for the
promotion of industry. Currently, the Central Planning Organization (CPO) is
drafting the first economic development plan (for a three-year period). The
plan is expected to set agricultural development as the country's first prior-
ity, but also to put emphasis on encouraging private investment in small-scale,
import-substituting industry, as the best way of bringing to productive use
the investible funds that are available among Yemen's merchants.
2.07      In 1970, the Government issued an investment law that provides cer-
tain incentives to foreign and local investors, such as exemption from customs
duties on imported machinery, equipment and spare parts, reduction of import
duties on raw materials, and exemption from business taxes for a period of
five years from the date of production start-up. The Investment Law also
provides that the Government may restrict imports of certain commodities -
normally through an increase in custom duties - to protect local manufacturers.
Currently custom duties, which form the Government's main source of revenue, ore
generally between 10% and 30% ad valorem. So far the Government has increased
the custom duties on products in only a limited number of cases to protect new
local manufacturers (e.g. for plastic footwear from 25% to 30%, for nails
from 10% to 15%). In principle, the Government intends to continue this
policy of protecting the country's infant industry. At the same time, the
Government is fully aware of the disadvantages that may result from providing
too much protection or protection for too long a time. It also recognizes
that it would be difficult to enforce a high level of protection in any event,
since it lacks the administrative capacity to deal with widespread smuggling
and other methods of avoiding customs declaration which would be the inevit-
able result. Though an important first step, the impact of the law apparently
1/   Comprising five enterprises that produce aluminum utensils, plastic
shoes, paints, paper bags, and oxygen.



- 4 -
has been limited so far, partly because of the short time the law has been
in operation and because of poor tax and customs administration, but also
because for a country at Yemen's stage of development an investment law alone
is not enough to induce private investment in industry. There are other im-
pediments, such as the lack or inefficiency of public institutions needed to
provide effective technical and financial assistance, and the nearly complete
lack of sites that have appropriate infrastructure for modern industrial
settlement.
2.08      The Government is making efforts to strengthen its institutions.
The Ministry of Economy is responsible for implementing the Government's in-
dustrial development policy through its Department for Industry. Its present
functions are to provide Yemen's business community with general technical
assistance in the identification of investment opportunities and to generally
promote and coordinate the establishment of new industrial capacity through
an appropriate application of the incentives of the Investment Law. So far,
the Ministry has not been able to fulfill these functions properly, largely
because of the shortage of qualified staff. The Government is strengthening
the Ministry through the establishment of an Industrial Promotion and Advisory
Unit (IPAU) that will be attached to the Department for Industry. In addition
to a Yemeni contingent, it will be staffed with two expatriates, one economist
and one engineer, whom the Goverment has requested from UNDP and who are ex-
pected to be appointed in early 1974. In addition, the Government will set
up a new organization, the Industrial Estate Development Authority (IEDA),
that - as its first task - will be responsible for building and operating
the proposed industrial estate, including the provision of technical as-
sistance to existing and prospective enterprises on the estate (para. 3.02).
D. Availability of Finance
2.09      Long-term funds for private industrial investment have not been
available from Yemen's banks, which have traditionally made short-term advances
for trade and construction. Private investors have used suppliers' credits to
finance their imported machinery. However, the liquidity of Yemen's banks is
now quite high, and the proposed project makes provisions to tap this liquid-
ity for the creation of a long-term credit facility available to enterprises
on the industrial estate.
2.10      The majority government-owned Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (YBRD) is Yemen's dominating commercial bank and the only one that
is represented in all of the three main towns. Currently YBRD also serves as
the development bank for government projects. A study of Yemen's banking
sector, made by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development in 1971, recom-
mended that eventually a new development bank should be set up to specialize
in long-term lending to industry. But the Government decided that until the
volume of such lending will have increased significantly, YBRD should be the
channel for such funds. IDA agrees with the decision and the proposed credit
facility will, therefore, be established within YBRD. Yemen's banking sector
and YBRD are described in detail in Annex 2.



- 5 -
E. Potential for Export-Oriented Industry
2.11      Yemen's exports are small and stagnant (Table 2), and the country's
export potential is likely to continue to be very limited, concentrated on a
few commodities such as cotton, coffee, hides and skins, some of which may be
exported in partly processed form (e.g. through ginning and tanning), and somi
other raw materials (primarily rock salt). Cement may be a future possibilit
For Yemen's merchants who seek investment opportunities in small-scale manu-
facturing at this time, the potential must, therefore, be found in import-
substituting industry.
F. Potential for Import-Substituting Industry
2.12      Yemen has a substantial trade deficit.  There appear to be oppor-
tunities for domestic production of a variety of items such as soap, yarn and
thread, footwear and other similar light manufacturing products that are stil
largely imported today (Table 3).  In 1972, imports were 17 times larger than
exports (US$118 million versus US$7 million), resulting in a trade deficit
equal to nearly 25% of Yemen's GNP if one assumes this to be around US$480
million. The current account balance, however, was positive, since the large
inflow of remittances from Yemenis working abroad (US$96.1 million), and
grants (US$21.4 million) covered the resource gap. Over the last four years,
remittances increased rapidly (they were only US$42 million in 1969) (Table 4
and were paralleled by an equally rapid increase in imports of food and
manufactured consumer goods.
2.13      Customs records of imports were screened to gain a better idea abou
the potential for manufacturing in Yemen. However, these records understate
Yemen's actual trade by something between one-third and one-half, since much
of it crosses the border illegally or is for other reasons not accounted for.
In addition, records are available only for private sector imports since in
the past none had been maintained on government imports. Nevertheless, cus-
toms records are still the best data available to analyze the composition of
Yemen's imports, and they are summarized in the table below. It indicates
that in 1972, half of these imports were foodstuffs, and another 25% were
textiles and other manufactured goods. Potential for import-substituting
industry will have to be found under these categories since the remainder
were raw materials, fuels, chemicals, machinery and equipment.



- 6 -
Recorded Private Sector Imports
by Main Group of Commodities
(YR 1 million)
% Increase
1972 over
1969     1970     1971      1972        1969
Foodstuffs /1                  67.1    116.4      81.7    152.8         128
Raw Materials and Fuel         10.4       7.3     17.1      16.9         63
Chemicals                       6.1       5.5      9.4      15.9        161
Manufactured Goods
Except Textiles    )                26.6      39.2     67.5   )
Textiles                )      24.0       6.0      7.9      12.9   )    235
lIachinery & Equipment  )      50.2       8.6     14.1      22.5   )    (22)
Transport Equipment    )                  8.1     15.4      16.8   )
Total                         157.8    178.5    184.8    305.3           93
/1   Includes food, live animals, beverages and tobacco.
2.14      To determine whether a realistic investment opportunity exists for
individual products, an analysis was made of the size of the domestic market
(as shown by apparent consumption, i.e. estimated imports plus any domestic
production). At the same time the production technology was reviewed to
ensure that it was simple and standard and thus appropriate for Yemen's state
of trained manpower. From this analysis, a list of promising investment oppor-
tunities was prepared. Through a survey and in discussions, the interest of
the local business community in investing in the manufacturing of these
products was gauged. In the survey, individual merchants and trading compan-
ies expressed willingness to invest between YR 100,000 and YR 500,000. The
following list of products serves as an illustration only. It will be con-
tinuously revised and expanded.
(1)       Foodstuffs:  Pastes (e.g. macaroni and spaghetti), Ghee, Fruit
and Vegetable Processing, Grain Milling;
(2)       Consumer Goods:  Yarn and Thread, Socks and Underwear, Ready-
Made Garments, Buttons, Footwear, Leather Goods, Household
Plastic Goods, Soap, Candles, Chalk, Crayons, Brushes, Kero-
sene Lamps, Cutlery, Furniture;
(3)       Building Materials:  Building Fixtures, Locks, Nails, Screws,
etc., Electrical Fittings, Rigid PVC Pipes, PVC Cables,
Asbestos Cement Pipes, Solar Heaters;
(4)       Other Manufactured Goods:  Tire Retreading, Water Pumps (some
casting and machining, but primarily assembly), Small Agri-
cultural Implements.



-7-
2.15      To test the feasibility of a sample of these possible investments,
tentative profitability calculations were made for five small-scale enter-
prises to produce: (i) electrical fittings; (ii) locks and padlocks;
(iii) building fixtures; (iv) household plastic goods, and (v) socks. Pro-
fitability as expressed by gross profit before financial charges as a percent-
age of total investment came to 9% to 14%. These rates can be considered as
a floor level because of the conservative nature of the assumptions used; for
example, it was assumed that sales would have to be made at 10% below current
market prices to compete with imports; fixed and operating cost estimates in-
cluded contingency factors; and market sizes were conservatively set, making
no allowance for the fact that apparent consumption has been growing at about
10% per year for most products. In short, the results are reasonably re-
assuring for the existence of opportunities in import-substituting industry.



III. THE PROJECT
A. General Outline
3.01      The proposed project has three principal components:  (i) an indus-
trial estate of about 32,500 m2 (with provisions for later expansion to
130,000 m2) in the western outskirts of Sana'a which will provide for the
leasing of standard factory buildings and industrial sites for individual
occupancy; (ii) technical assistance to potential and actual occupants of
the estate in the preparation of their individual projects, obtaining of
finance, selection of equipment suppliers and other procurement matters,
training, erection and start-up of machinery and equipment and, finally,
technical help in solving the enterprises' day-to-day problems during the
critical initial years of operation; and (iii) a credit facility to provide
long-term credits to entrepreneurs on the estate for the impQrt of machinery
and equipment.
3.02      An Industrial Estate Development Authority (IEDA) will be set up.
It is to plan, establish, and run the Sana'a estate and any future estates
that might be built at other locations, admit potential tenants to these
estates and provide technical assistance to them. The establishment of IEDA
will be an important contribution to building an effective institutional sys-
tem in the country. Though initially small, IEDA will start off with an
efficient organization and a favorable capitalization, so that it can become
self-supporting and can expand and grow into an important role in promoting
small-scale industry. IEDA will be a government body under the general super-
vision of the Ministry of Economy, but with a juridical personality and finan-
cial and administrative autonomy that will protect it from government inter-
vention in day-to-day management decisions. Among IEDA's powers will be the
right to employ staff as needed and prescribe the terms of their employment
including remuneration; it will also have the right to raise loans and to
acquire real estate.
3.03      A Board of Directors will supervise IEDA's administration and form-
ulate its policies. It will have six members: the Minister of Economy as
Chairman of the Board; the Chairman each of CPO and YBRD as representatives
of the public sector; a representative each of the Yemeni Chamber of Commerce
and of the estate occupants for the private sector; and the Director General
of IEDA who will be responsible for implementing Board decisions. The direc-
tor of the Department for Industry in the Ministry of Economy will attend
IEDA's Board meetings as an observer to assure close cooperation between his
Department and IEDA. The legislation-satisfactory to the Association-estab-
lishing IEDA and the major rules, regulations and policy objectives under
which it will operate has been enacted by the Government.
3.04      The Government will - in consultation with the Association -
appoint a qualified Yemeni as IEDA's Director General. In addition, IEDA
will have a Yemeni industrial engineer, also to be appointed in consultation
with the Association, who will be in charge of providing technical assistance
to the estate enterprises. Both Yemenis will initially be guided and advised
by foreign experts, and will receive six months of training each outside Yemen.



- 9 -
3.05      IEDA will advertise the facilities of the industrial estate among
Yemen's business community, which is expected to take advantage of the general
identification of investment opportunities being done in the Ministry of
Economy. Interested investors will approach IEDA, and be assisted in the
r7eparation of a feasibility study and a financial plan, if the investment
proposal looks promising. After all financing has been secured, IEDA on
behalf of the entrepreneur will proceed with procurement of machinery and
equipment. Guidelines still need to be worked out on the types of industry
to be permitted on the estate, the general economic and financial criteria
that should apply to estate enterprises, and the building design standards
that should be followed by the few enterprises that might decide to build
their own factory space. In selecting and helping to formulate industrial
projects for the estate, IEDA will place major emphasis on (a) the determina-
tion of the economic and social impact that the estate enterprises will have
in Yemen, and (b) the evaluation of the various alternative technologies that
may be employable in order not only to maximize the economic utilization of
labor but also to help spread the transfer of a type of technical knowledge
that can be digested by as broad a segment of the Yemeni population as possi-
ble. Hopefully, this should also help to create additional demand for sub-
supplies and repair services within Yemen that otherwise might have to conti-
nue to come from abroad. This is consistent with the Investment Law (para.
2.07) which provides that a project receiving the benefits of the law should
- among others - satisfy the following conditions: (i) employ and train the
largest possible number of Yemenis, and (ii) use appropriate technical methods.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that IEDA will prepare its guide-
lines in a form satisfactory to the Association by September 30, 1974.
B. The Estate
1. Site Selection
3.06      Historically, Hodeida, the country's port, Taiz, the agricultural
center, and Sana'a, the capital city, have attracted most of Yemen's industrial
enterprises. With the end of the civil war, Sana'a has grown in importance
and economic potential, and currently attracts by far the largest share of
new enterprises. This and the presence of the Government were the main reasons
why Sana'a was selected for the first estate. The following table shows the
total number of enterprises in traditional handicraft, modern manufacturing,
mining and quarrying, and certain services (power generating, car repairs and
printing) that have been established each year since 1968, and their distri-
bution among the three major towns. When interpreting these data, it must be
kept in mind that between one half and three fourths of these enterprises have
less than five workers and that many of them would not consider locating on
an industrial estate.



- 10 -
Number of New Enterprises /1 by Year
of Establishment and Location
Year           Total        Sana'a       Taiz        Hodeida        Others
1968             89           19          19            11            40
1969            101          17           19            13            52
1970            170          49           26            16            79
1971            122          36           18            11            57
1972           201           86           26            19            70
1973 /2         184          94           15            18            57
/1   Comprising traditional handicraft, modern manufacturing, mining and
quarrying, power generating, car repairs, and printing.
/2   Six months only.
3.07      The site selected for the estate is alongside the asphalted highway
connecting Sana'a with Hodeida (Map, IBRD 10720R). It was chosen from among
five alternatives considered, primarily because of its good location and
accessibility, and the fact that it lies in the center of one of the areas
which the master plan for Sana'a has reserved for industrial settlement and
thus does not interfere with the future expansion plans for Sana'a city.
The master plan was prepared by a UNDP town planner in 1972 and endorsed by
the Government. The Government has compensated property owners with other
government land and is now holding the entire estate site free of all claims.
A brief description of the site and the reasons for its selection are pro-
vided in Annex 3.
2. Land Use Pattern
3.08      The total area of the site is 130,000 m2 of which eventually
(a) 30,000 m2 will be used for infrastructure, administrative building of
IEDA, special workshops and open space; (b) 70,000 m2 will be divided into
plots of 2,500 m2 each for the 28 standard-type, multi-purpose single story
factory buildings to be provided by the estate; and (c) the remaining 30,000 m2
will be available to entrepreneurs who decide to set up their own buildings in
accordance with approved designs. A preliminary site development plan together
with the design of the standard factory building which has been kept as simple
as possible is included in Annex 4. Each standard factory building will have
1,200 m2 of covered floor space and can be easily subdivided for several enter-
prises to share. It is estimated that enterprises will rent on an average
about 400 m2 covered floor space, so that three enterprises would share one
building, but individual needs are likely to vary between 100 m2 and 1,000 m2
and the buildings are designed to offer this flexibility. The buildings will
be constructed only as required by the demand for space. Once the estate is
fully occupied it could house nearly 100 enterprises, but the extent to which
the final number will deviate from this figure will, of course, depend on the
industry mix that will be attracted. Internal roads (paved for main roads



- 11 -
and dirt roads for secondary connections) will provide easy access to the
individual factory buildings. Main roads will be publicly lit during night
hours. The entire estate will be fenced, with two guarded entrances.
3. Utilities
3.09      The site is only 500 m from the power station of Sana'a Electricity
Company (SEC) to which it will be connected by a high tension transmission
line (15 KV). The estate will set up a transformer and the internal distri-
bution network. It will purchase power from SEC at a bulk rate and sell it
with a small margin to the estate tenants. At present, Sana'a has no water
supply system, but a water supply project for Sana'a, to be presented to the
Executive Directors in FY1974, is expected to bring water in sufficient
quantities within 100 m of the estate by 1976. In case construction of the
water supply system falls behind schedule, the cost estimates for the estate
include funds for an electric tubewell and an overhead tank. These instal-
lations could later serve as standby and for fire fighting purposes. A
public sewage disposal system will not be built in Sana'a for some years, and
the estate will have to build its own. It will be simply designed, consisting
of septic tanks and soaking pits. The site has a natural gradient towards
the northeast of about 1%, just sufficient to facilitate construction of the
sewage disposal system and also of surface water drainage. Assurance was
obtained from the Government that all utility connections for which agencies
other than IEDA have responsibility, will be provided to the estate at the
time and to the extent required.
4. Management Complex and Common Facilities
3.10      IEDA will have its administrative building on the site, with offices
for the entire staff. It will also set up a central repair-shop in part of
one of the standard factory buildings for its own purposes, but against pay-
ment repair services will also be made available to estate enterprises and,
to the extent possible, to outside enterprises. A mechanic and an electrician
will be on the staff of IEDA. As the occupancy of the estate increases,
additional communal facilities may be built, such as an assembly room, a bank
and a post office. Also, a warehouse and special workshops for electroplating,
heat treatment, tool and die making, etc. are eventually foreseen. To the
extent possible, these latter services will be left to private initiative or
otherwise provided by IEDA on a self-liquidating basis.
5. Demand for Estate Land
3.11      On the basis of developments during the last few years it has been
estimated that annually between 20 and 30 modern small-scale manufacturing
enterprises will be established in Yemen that are potentially suitable for
settlement on estates. As pointed out in para. 3.06, the total number of
new enterprises established in 1972 was 201, but that includes all enter-
prises, even those very small, "bazaar" or "cottage" workshops in traditional
handicrafts, such as silver and gold smithing, handweaving, and pottery making.



- 12 -
Many of these very small operations will never consider moving onto an
industrial estate, because for them the gains that could be derived from a
modern industrial environment do not outweigh the costs associated with it.
Even some of the modern small-scale enterprises will prefer to settle out-
side an estate for a variety of reasons such as an unwillingness to subject
themselves to the more rigorous standards on an estate together with a lack
of awareness of what advantages locating on an estate can bring. But this
will be partly compensated by some existing enterprises that will probably
want to move from their present production quarters onto the estate. Some
enterprises are, of course, not suited for an estate, for instance because
of their locational limitations near a raw material source (e.g. quarrying
and mining).
3.12      On the basis of the above, it has been assumed that during the first
six years of the industrial estate (1974-1979), on an average five enterprises
per year would wish to rent factory space (at an average of 400 m2 each) on
the Sana'a estate. Since the first three factory buildings will become avail-
able only in 1976, there might be only some 20 enterprises operating on the
estate by the end of 1979, occupying 7 factory plots of together 17,500 m2,
equivalent to only one-fourth of the total number of 28 plots available for
standard factory buildings. It is, therefore, clear that even if occupancy
should take place more quickly than now predicted, phasing of estate construc-
tion will be indispensable. Making predictions beyond 1979 is, of course,
difficult, but it can be expected that the rate of occupancy on the estate
will accelerate and that the estate will probably be fully occupied by the
end of 1986. This expectation is based on the assumption that the industrial-
ization process in Yemen will continue to gain momentum and that by then the
attractiveness of the estate will have been fully established.
6. Phasing of Land Development
3.13      Land development on the estate and construction of standard factory
buildings, therefore, will take place in three distinct phases. The three
phases would provide maximum flexibility for any adjustments in the concept
and timing of developing the estate. Phase I has been kept as small as
possible to minimize the initial financial exposure. Only 7 standard factory
buildings will be built during Phase I, and of those, initially only three
will be constructed, and two more in each of the next two years, if demand
develops as currently anticipated, which should lead to full occupancy for
the facilities of Phase I in 1979. Utilities will be provided only to the
extent needed by each of the three phases, so that each phase is self-contained
and further development of Phase II or III could be abandoned in the extreme
case that there should be inadequate demand for them. On the other hand,
timing of the phases could be advanced and Phases II and III combined if this
should prove to be warranted by the demand for space. The phasing as presently
conceived is shown below:



- 13 -
Phased Development of Sana'a Industrial Estate
No. of Plots    Total Area
(1)  Standard Factory Buildings:                                          (m2)
(Plot Size 2,500 m2)
Phase I (1974-1979)                                7          17,500
Phase II (1980-1983)                             13           32,500
Phase III (1984-1986)                             8           20,000
Sub-total                              28          70,000
(2) Plots for Construction by Entrepreneurs:
(Plot Size 3,000 m2)
Phase I (1974-1979)                               2            6,000
Phase II (1980-1983)                              4           12,000
Phase III (1984-1986)                              4          12,000
Sub-total                              10          30,000
(3)  Infrastructure, Open Space, Administration              -           30,000
Grand Total                            38          130,000
C. Technical Assistance
3.14      Because of Yemen's acute shortage of trained personnel, IEDA would
employ two foreign experts on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, to guide and advise IEDA's Director General and industrial engineer.
Knowledge of Arabic would be highly desirable for the foreign experts. UNIDO
will assist in the identification of suitable candidates. In addition, a
banking expert would be employed by YBRD on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, to work in YBRD for the establishment and operation of
the long-term credit facility. The technical assistance program includes six
months of training outside Yemen for IEDA's Yemeni Director General and in-
dustrial engineer.
3.15      Technical assistance requirements until 1979, the end of Phase I,
have been estimated at a total of 147 man-months, distributed as follows:
advisor to Director General (45), advisor to industrial engineer (60), bank-
ing expert (24), and 18 man-months of short-term consultants for cases which
require specialists for certain branches of industry. The detailed annual
manpower requirements as estimated at this time are shown in Table 5. The
appointment of the advisor to the Director General will be a condition of
effectiveness for the Credit. He is expected to stay through 1977. The
advisor to the industrial engineer will be hired about one year later. The
banking expert will be employed by YBRD by July 1, 1975. It is difficult to
predict when Yemeni management capabilities will require no further outside
assistance. During negotiations agreement was reached that IEDA will regu-
larly consult with the Association on the need to adjust the technical assist-
ance program.



- 14 -
D. Credit Facility and YBRD
3.16      A credit facility will be established within YBRD to help finance
sniz CIF cost of imported equipment for enterprises on the estate, which are
expected to be about US$80,000 per enterprise. Up to 80% of this amount
will be available from the credit facility, but not all enterprises are ex-
pected to use it to the full extent. The total credit needs for the 20 some
enterprises that are expected to settle on the estate during Phase I have,
therefore, been estimated as US$1.2 million equivalent. Borrowers would be
expected to finance with their own means 20% to 30% of the total costs of
their projects to cover the 20% or more of the cost of imported equipment
not covered by the credit facility, local cost components, and some of the
working capital needs. Additional working capital could be financed through
credits from any of Yemen's commercial banks and is adequately available.
3.17      YBRD was set up in 1962.  Its paid-up share capital is YR 10 million,
51% of which is held by the Government and 49% by the public. YBRD was
Yemen's only bank until 1971, when a central bank was established, and foreign
banks opened branches in Yemen. Today, YBRD is still the dominating commer-
cial bank; it is the only bank that has branches in all of Yemen's main towns
and, in 1972 had made advances of YR 88 million (US$19.5 million equivalent)
or 84% of the total bank advances to Yemeni customers (other than the Govern-
ment). Operations have been very profitable, and reserves have been built
up. Besides its lending activities, YBRD holds participations totalling
YR 13.5 million in ten of Yemen's largest enterprises. Appraisal and super-
vision of these enterprises is the responsibility of YBRD's Investment
Department, which will also be in charge of administering the credit facility.
As mentioned previously (para. 3.14), it will be assisted by a foreign bank-
ing expert whose task will be to introduce YBRD to appropriate procedures for
the financial evaluation of small-scale industry projects, the obtaining of
appropriate securities and assurances, loan approval, the handling of dis-
bursements and, eventually, loan recovery. The Government hopes that, at
some future date, when long-term lending to industry will have reached an
appropriate level, YBRD's Investment Department will form the basis for a
separate "Industrial Development Bank".
3.18      YBRD will not prepare feasibility studies for the enterprises on
the estate. That will be done by the investors and IEDA. Only if his proj-
ect is being recommended by IEDA, the investor will be able to apply to YBRD
for a loan from the credit facility. YBRD will assess his creditworthiness,
including his ability to assure his equity contribution and provide adequate
securities. YBRD has an intimate knowledge of Yemen's business community,
and should, therefore, be in a better position than any other institution to
assess the creditworthiness of the investors.
3.19      YBRD, in consultation with IEDA, will determine the repayment terms
of the loans from the credit facility, including, where appropriate, provi-
sions for a period of grace and capitalization of interest. The terms will
be set in accordance with the financial requirements of the respective pro-
jects, but the maturity will in no case exceed the average expected life of



- 15 -
the machinery and equipment financed. The cost of the loans to estate enter-
prises should be in line with the cost of capital in Yemen. Since there has
been no long-term lending in Yemen so far, there is no comparable interest
rate for long-term loans. Furthermore, loans from the credit facility are
not expected to be made before the second half of 1975, since the first fa-
cilities of the estate should not be available before mid-1976. Therefore,
instead of fixing a specific interest rate for the loans from the credit
facility at this time, it was agreed during negotiations that (i) YBRD will
charge an interest rate that is not less than the prevailing rate for short-
term commercial advances plus a margin that accounts for the longer maturity
of the loans from the credit facility, and (ii) the interest rate so deter-
mined by YBRD should always be acceptable to the Association, and should not
be changed by YBRD without the Association's approval. The current interest
rates for short-term credits in Yemen are shown in Table 6. Over the past
three years, these interest rates have gone up, and short-term commercial
advances now cost 9% p.a. The foreign exchange risk on loans from the credit
facility would be borne by the Government, which is justified because of the
infant state of industry in Yemen.
3.20      Currently, YBRD's lending volume consists entirely of short-term
advances for trade and construction. Bad debts generally do not exceed 5%
of the loan portfolio. Except for its participation in ten enterprises,
YBRD has no experience with long-term lending to industry, and the risks are,
of course, higher than under YBRD's short-term lending. Some of the ventures
on the industrial estate must be expected to fail. Since the Government wishes
to introduce YBRD to long-term lending to industry, and to use the project as
a first learning experience for YBRD, the Government has agreed to guarantee
75% of each loan made from the credit facility. The 25% of the risk to be
borne by YBRD should be sufficient to ensure that YBRD will make maximum
efforts to prevent any bad debts, through a thorough check on creditworthiness
and - equally important - a close supervision of debt collection. The Govern-
ment's guarantee will become effective only after all other recovery pro-
cedures by YBRD, including the utilization of all securities held by YBRD for
the loan in question, have failed. For later phases of the Sana'a industrial
estate and any other project involving long-term lending by YBRD, the Govern-
ment intends to gradually turn over the entire risk to YBRD.



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Summag-
4.01      The cost of the project covers (i) Phase I of the estate (detailed
engineering, land, infrastructure, standard factory buildings); (ii) technical
assistance (foreign experts, training abroad of Yemeni staff); and (iii) the
credit facility to assist in financing the investment by enterprises settling
on the estate. The following table s.ummarizes the total cost of the project
and the financing plan.
Project Cost and Financing Plan, Summary
(UJS$ '000)
Cost                           Financing
Local  Foreign  Total         Government   YBRD         IDA
Industrial
Estate
(Phase I)        1,110    550   1,660 (49%)    380             -       1,280
Technical
Assistance          70    420      490 (15%)      60          10         420
Credit Facility        -  1,200   1,200 (36%)        -         600         600
Total            1,180  2,170   3,350(100%)    440(13%)   610(18%) 2,300(69%)
B.   The Estate
1.   Cost Estimate
4.02      The cost estimate for Phase I of the industrial estate is summarized
below and given in more detail in Table 7 which also contains the cost estimate
for the complete estate (in 1973 prices).



- 17 -
Industrial Estate Cost Estimate (Phase I Onl
YR '000               US$ '000
Local  foreign Total  Local  Foreign Total   _
2
Land (32,500 m )          585        -    585    130         -    130    7.8
Land Development,
Infrastructure          447      259    706      99       57    156    9.4
Buildings               1,220   1,082  2,302    271        241    512   30.8
Equipment                   68     292    360      16       64     80    4.8
Engineering               250       43    293      55       10     65    3.9
Contingencies:
Physical                298      251    549      66       56    122    7.4
Price Escalation      1,002      548  1,550    223       122    345   20.8
Sub-total             3,870   2,475  6,345    860        550  1.1410   84.9
W4orking Capital           315       -    315      70        -      70    4.2
Interest During
Construction            813        -    813    180         -    180   10.9
Total Financing
Required:             4,998   2      475      1,110     550  1,660  100.0
4.03     2Although only about one fourth of the ultimate estate site of
130,000 m will be developed during Phase I, the above cost estimate provides
for fencing of the entire site to prevent illegal settlement. Should the
estate not be developed beyond Phase I, the remaining land would be available
for other uses. For purposes of estimating project cost and of assessing one
of the Government's contribution to the project, the land has been assigned
a value of US$4.0 per m2. This constitutes an average of the price at which
land around Sana'a is changing hands at the present time, even though indi-
vidual transactions vary widely.
4.04      Building cost estimates include the administration center (400 m )
to house the offices of IEDA and seven of the standard factory buildings
(8,400 m2) which will also contain the central repairshop. Site development
and building costs, by far the major cost category, were assessed in detail
by the Association in the field in August 1973 on the basis of interviews
with industrialists, government officials and contractors and an analysis of
recent bid documents (Annex 4). Equipment cost estimates, which include
office furniture, equipment and cars for the administration center as well as
machinery and equipment for the repairshop are also based on 1973 prices.
4.05      A physical contingency of 15% on all cost items (except land) was
added, and annual price escalation was assumed at 8% for foreign exchange
costs and at 12% for local currency costs. During the past three to four



- 18 -
years, Yemen, and Sana'a in particular, has experienced an unprecedented con-
struction boom, and construction costs have gone up at an annual rate of about
15%. Those familiar with the situation believe, however, that the rate of
increase will decline somewhat as the introduction of formal bidding procedures
and rational management methods that is now taking place, and the hiring of
qualified personnel (many from other Arab countries) in Yemen's contracting
firms are expected to mitigate against the upward trend of prices. The above
provisions for physical contingency and price escalation should, therefore,
be adequate. In any event, the Government would provide any additional funds,
both local currency and foreign exchange, if needed to complete the project
(Phase I). The Droject's foreign exchange component is estimated at 40% of
total cost excluding land and interest during construction.
2.   Financing Plan
4.06      IDA would finance US$1.28 million of the cost of the estate, covering
everything except for land, working capital and interest during construction
which will be provided by the Government. In order to start off IEDA on a
sound financial basis, 37.5% or US$480,000 equivalent of the IDA funds would
be passed on from the Government to IEDA in the form of equity, and the re-
mainder (US$800,000) as a loan, bearing 9% p.a. interest and repayable over
25 years, including six years of grace. Interest during construction (5 years)
would be capitalized. Since the large majority of the estate assets has an
expected life in excess of 25 years, the length of loan appears warranted.
Conclusion of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and IEDA
in a form satisfactory to the Association, will be a condition of effective-
ness for the Credit.
4.07      The Government would contribute the land (valued at YR 585,000 or
US$130,000) and the initial working capital of YR 315,000 (US$70,000) as
equity. The capitalized interest of US$180,000 on the US$800,000 loan from
the IDA funds can also be considered as a Government contribution, and will
be repaid as part of that loan. This capitalization would give IEDA an ini-
tial debt/equity ratio of 60/40:
Industrial Estate Development Authority
Initial Capitalization
(US$ '000)
Assets                           Liabilities
Fixed Assets                  1,590     Debt                        980 (60%)
Land                  130                (from IDA)         800
Interest during                          (from Government)  180
construction        180
Other               1,280             Equity                      680 (40%)
Working Capital                  70        (from IDA)          480
(from Government)  200
Total                       1,660       Total                   1,660 (100%)



- 19 -
C.   Technical Assistance
4.08      The purpose and the extent of the technical assistance was described
in paras. 3.14 and 3.15. Its cost is estimated at US$490,000, including
US$70,000 equivalent in local currency, as summarized below and detailed in
Table 8.
Cost of Technical Assistance
(US$ '000)
Foreign        Local       Total
IEDA                        350          60           410
YBRD                         70          10            80
Total                 420           70           490
IDA would cover the entire foreign exchange costs.  The Government would cover
the local currency costs (US$60,000 equivalent) of the services provided by
the two foreign experts of IEDA, and the short-term consultants, and of the
training of the two Yemenis. YBRD would provide the local currency costs of
the banking expert.
4.09      IEDA would receive the government funds and the proceeds of the IDA
Credit for technical assistance as a grant. During the first years of the
estate, the high cost of technical assistance cannot be passed on to the
estate occupants through IEDA's rental fees without reducing the attractiveness
of the estate. To charge estate occupants separate from rents for the services
of the experts could cause entrepreneurs not to use the services to their full
extent, not at least until the benefits of technical assistance have become
fully evident to them. However, IEDA will endeavour to defray as early as
possible an increasing part of the cost of technical assistance to the bene-
fiting enterprises. This will be particularly so in cases where IEDA would
call in short-term consultants to solve specific problems of estate enter-
prises. As part of IEDA's annual consultations with IDA on the rental policy
to be followed (para. 6.08), discussions will cover ways in which estate
enterprises could pay for at least a portion of the cost of technical assist-
ance.
D.   Credit Facility
4.10      The credit facility of US$1.2 million would be made up from contri-
butions of US$600,000 equivalent each from YBRD's own resources and the pro-
ceeds of the IDA Credit.  IDA would disburse its funds pari passu with YBRD
against 50% of the loans made to borrowers. YBRD would pay on the IDA funds
an interest rate that is 3 percentage points below the average interest rate
charged by YBRD on the loans from the credit facility, but not less than 7%
p.a. The repayment terms from YBRD to the Government would be established
each year as 50% of the principal repayments due from the borrowers of the
credit facility during that year. In case of a bad debt, the Government would



- 20 -
reimburse YBRD 75% of the funds that cannot be recovered. The interest spread
of 3 percentage points that YBRD would receive 1/, should cover YBRD's admin-
istrative expenses, including the local currency cost of the expatriate bank-
ing expert, plus 25% of the funds lost by YBRD under bad debts. YBRD's ac-
counts concerning the credit facility would be audited annually by an indepen-
dent auditing firm satisfactory to the Association. Conclusion of a subsidiary
loan agreement satisfactory to the Association between the Government and YBRD
will be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit. A complete description
of the credit facility, including tentative cash flow projections for the
credit facility is contained in Annex 5.
1/  YBRD would receive an interest spread of 3 percentage points only if the
interest rate to the borrowers would be set at 10% p.a. or more.



- 21 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT
A.   Project Implementation
5.01      Appointment of the advisor to the Director General of IEDA (para.
3.15), and conclusion of subsidiary loan agreements satisfactory to the
Association, between the Government and IEDA (para. 4.06), and the Government
and YBRD (para. 4.10) will be conditions of effectiveness for the Credit.
From the date of the Credit Agreement critical points in the project imple-
mentation are as follows:
Project Implementation Schedule
Time in Months
from Date of
Major Steps                                                     Credit Agreement
1.   Appointment of Yemeni Director General of IEDA
and foreign advisor                                          3
2.   Selection of firm to prepare detailed
engineering of estate                                        6
3.   Appointment of Yemeni industrial engineer of IEDA and
foreign advisor                                             12
4.   Completion of bidding documents for estate development         15
5.   Appointment of banking expert for YBRD                         18
6.   Award of construction contracts under 4                        19
7.   First factory buildings ready for occupancy                    30 (2.5 years)
Principal responsibility for project execution will rest with IEDA and thus,
at least initially, heavily on its expatriate staff.
B.   Procurement and Disbursement
5.02      There are a few construction firms in Yemen with architectural
bureaus that provide engineering services, but there is only one independent
Yemeni consulting firm. This firm, Yemen Industrial Consultants (YIC), has
prepared a number of feasibility studies and engineering designs, and has
supervised the execution of civil works. At present, YIC is carrying out a
major engineering job together with a Canadian consulting firm, which has
commented favorably on the competence of YIC. Since knowledge of local con-
struction methods and domestically available building materials is essential
for keeping construction costs low and within estimates, and since the esti-
mated cost of the engineering services is relatively small in any case
(US$65,000), it is proposed that IFDA first invite YIC to subnit a proposal
on carrying out the detailed engineering for the estate, and that YIC be given
the task provided that it submits an acceptable proposal. IEDA will appoint
the engineering firm by not later than July 1, 1974. The engineering firm and
the contractors to carry out the civil works, and their terms of reference
will be acceptable to the Association.



- 22 -
5.03      Contracts for civil works (land development, construction of the
administration building and standard factory buildings) estimated to cost
US$50,000 or more, will be submitted to international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines.  In view of the relatively small size of
the contracts involved, it is unlikely that any foreign firms would be inter-
ested to participate in the bidding, except perhaps firms that are currently
operating in Yemen under other development projects. Yemen has about a dozen
contractors who appear qualified for the work in question. Contracts for
civil works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 will be subject to IEDA's
usual local bidding procedure. The total value of the contracts so awarded
will not exceed US$100,000. Equipment orders over US$25,000 each will be
made after offers have been obtained from at least three suppliers, while
equipment costing less than that will be procured through direct purchase.
Since Yemen does not produce any equipment that would cost over US$25,000,
the question of local preferences does not arise.
5.04      The allocation of amounts of the IDA Credit to each category and
the percentage of eligible expenditures so-to be financed is summarized below.
An estimate of quarterly disbursements of the Credit is shown in Table 9.
Allocation of IDA Credit
(US$ '000)
Amount of Credit        % of Expenditure
Category                              Allocated             to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                        668,000         100% of total expenditure
II. Equipment for IEDA
(a) imported                                 )    100% of foreign expenditure
j
(b) locally manufactured            80,000   )    100% of total expenditure
)    (the ex-factory cost)
(c) imported and locally                     )
procured                                 )    80% of total expenditure
)    (representing estimated
)    foreign exchange cost)
III. Equipment under Credit Facility  600,000           50% of foreign expenditure
IV.  Consultants' Services               65,000         100% of total expenditure
V.   Technical Assistance               420,000         100% of foreign expenditure
VI.  Unallocated                        467,000
2,300,000



- 23 -
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
6.01      The following financial analysis covers only the Industrial Estate
Development Authority, but not the credit facility in YBRD which does not
lend itself to this type of analysis. 1/ IEDA will prepare annual budgets
comprising two accounts: (i) a capital account showing all transactions
concerning fixed assets, and (ii) a current account on current receipts and
expenditures.
A.   Capital Account
6.02      Capital expenditures on Phase I of the estate are expected to be
concluded by 1978 with completion of the last two of the seven standard
factory buildings. , The capital account and the expected timing of the
expenditures is shown below. More details are given in Table 10.
Industrial Estate Development Authority
Expenditures for Fixed Assets - Capital Account
(YR 1,000)
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978        Total
Receipts
Government
- Equity             585       -       -        -        -         585
- Loan                 9       62      158     250      334        813
IDA
- Equity             126      566     640      392     436       2,160
- Loan               211      942   1,067      652      728      3,600
Total         931   1,570   1,865   1,294    L498        _7_158
Expenditures
Land                 585       -       -        -        -         585
Land Development      -       567      139      -        -         706
Buildings             -       359     719      612      612      2,302
Equipment            135       -      225       -        -          360
Engineering          130      133      30       -        -         293
Contingencies         72      449     594      432      552      2,099
Interest during
Construction         9       62     158      250     334         813
Total         931   1,570   1,865   1,294   1,498         7,158
IDA will finance all expenditures except for land, which will be provided
by the Government, and interest during construction.
1/   A tentative cash flow projection for the credit facility is contained
in Annex 5.



- 24 -
B.   Current Account
1.   Revenues
6.03      IEDA will receive income from: (i) rent for space in standard fac-
tory buildings; (ii) rent for sites let to entrepreneurs who set up their own
buildings; (iii) the services of IEDA's central repairshop to estate tenants
and possibly outsiders; (iv) margins earned on bulk purchases of power and
water and resale to estate tenants; and (v) at some later stage, fees for
technical assistance.
6.04      The rent that IEDA will charge is of course central to the estate's
success since it will be the most important factor influencing the number of
industrial enterprises that will decide to settle on the estate. At this
point it is very difficult to determine what the appropriate rent would be
since rented factory space is not available in Yemen, nor is there available
the type of factory building that is foreseen on the estate. Furthermore,
cost data provided by factory owners tend to be low because they have con-
structed their buildings mostly on their own, using low building standards
without much regard to appropriate lighting, safety measures and environmental
considerations. There is also the possibility that during the initial years
of the estate, potential entrepreneurs may not be able to properly quantify
the advantages offered by the estate because of its newness. Therefore,
during this initial period, the price elasticity of demand for space on the
estate may prove to be particularly high.
6.05      It is clear from the foregoing that the evolution and administration
of the rental policy will be difficult, and that flexibility will be needed to
deal with changing circumstances. Consequently, only modest assumptions could
be made regarding the initial rents. Starting in 1976, IEDA will charge annual
rents of US$1.5 per m2 (YR 6.75) for industrial sites and US$15 per m4 (YR 67.5)
for covered space. The cost to IEDA of providing and maintainin8 1 m2 of cov-
ered factory space is about 10 times higher than the cost of 1 m~ industrial
site. During the appraisal of the project, merchants and entrepreneurs from
Sana'a considered higher rents (generally about US$20 per m2 of covered space)
as acceptable, but these responses have to be viewed with caution particularly
when taking into account the lack of experience with estates in Yemen. The
proposed rent of US$15 per m2 is in line with the rent on other industrial
estates elsewhere. including the two recently assisted by the Association
(Mauritius; US$11.10/m2, and Indonesia:  US$15.2/m2, both for 1976).
6.06      IEDA will adjust its rents to the prevailing demand for land and
factory space and to the general development of prices in Yemen.  However,
its contracts with new estate tenants will be for a period of at least three
years during which IEDA will not be permitted to raise its rents beyond the
amounts stipulated in the contracts. For the financial projections it has
been assumed that the proposed initial annual rents of US$1.5/m2 and US$15/m2
respectively would be valid for three years, and would be increased 25% in
1979 and a further 25% every three years thereafter. A 25% increase after
every three years is equivalent to an annual increase of only about 8%, which
is a conservative assumption in comparison with that of 12% for local construc-
tion costs.



- 25 -
6.07      It is unlikely that in the first couple of years of the estate,
entrepreneurs would wish to rent vacant sites (US$1.5 per m2 and year) for
construction of their own factory buildings. For the financial projections
it has been assumed that such demand would occur only from 1978 onwards. In
cases where vacant sites are leased, IEDA will require that factory construction
start within one year. Also, should a factory owner decide to sell his build-
ing, IEDA will be given the right of first refusal. The projected build-
up of IEDA's revenues from land leases, building rentals and other revenues
is shown below with more details provided in Table 11.
Industrial Estate Development Authority
Projected Revenue Build-up    2
(Revenues: YR 1,000; Area 1,000 m )
1974  1975  1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
Lease of vacant sites
Area (cumulative)      -     -      -      -        3      6       6      6       6
Revenue                -     -      -      -    20.3   50.6   50.6   50.6   63.4
Rent of Factory Space
Area (cumulative)      -     -       2      4       6      8       8      8       8
Revenue                -     -   67.5  270.0  405.0  675.2  675.2  675.2  844.0
Other Revenues           -      -   15.7   41.8   65.2   83.7   83.7   83.7   83.7
Total Revenues         -     -   83.2  311.8  490.5  809.5  809.5  809.5  991.1
6.08      In view of the uncertainties surrounding the demand build-up for the
estate and the most effective rental policy, it is not intended to impose
covenants on the specific rents that should be charged for the facilities of
the estate, and on the fees for other services rendered, as these may have
to be adjusted and fixed differently from those assumed here. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that IEDA: (i) will annually review its rents
and fees with the Association, (ii) will offer its new tenants contracts
for a period of at least three years, (iii) will during its first three years
of operation charge rents not below those assumed in this report unless ap-
proved by the Association, and (iv) will in its rental policy follow the ob-
jective of earning sufficient income to cover operating expenses and interest
on debt and to provide by 1980 a return of 8% on its net fixed assets in
operation (appropriately revalued to correct for price changes).
2.   Cash Flow Forecasts
6.09      Projected cash flow through 1982 is summarized below from Table 12
which also contains the major assumptions made.



- 26 -
Industrial Estate Development Authority
Cash Flow Forecasts - Current Account
(YR 1,000)
1974  1975  1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982
Receipts
Revenues (para. 6.07)          -     -     83   312   491   810   810   810   991
Technical Assistance Grant
- IDA                        126   316   340   378   227   189    -       -      -
- Government                  27    58    55    61    37    31    -              -
Working Capital Contribution
- Government                 135   112    68    -      -      -     -     -      -
Total Receipts          288   486   546   751   755 1,030   810   810   991
Expenditures
Technical Assistance          153   374   395   439   264   220    -        -     -
Operating Cost                 54   112   151   200   226   255   268   281   295
Debt Service
- Interest                   -      -     -      -     -    397   397   389   379
- Principal                   --              -               -     96   104   114
Total Expenses          207   486   546   639   490   872   761   774   788
Annual Cash Surplus            81    -     -    112   265   158    49    36   203
Cumulative Cash Surplus       81    81    81   193   458   616   665   701   904
Debt-Service- Coverage         -     -     -      -     -    1.4   1.1   1.1   1.4
6.10      IEDA's operating costs (Table 13) include salaries of Yemeni staff,
other administrative costs, promotional costs (publications, travel), and the
cost of maintenance of IEDA's assets, but not the cost of technical assistance
which will be provided as a grant and is shown separately in the above table.
Until completion of the administrative building on the estate, IEDA will have
to rent office space and an appropriate provision has been made in the operat-
ing costs. Interest during construction on the loan to IEDA from the proceeds
of the IDA Credit has been capitalized through 1978. Repayment of principal
to the Government would start in 1980 and run over 19 years at an interest
rate of 9% per annum. To relieve debt service payments in the early years of
the estate's operations, constant payments covering both principal and interest
have been assumed. IEDA will not be subject to income taxes.
6.11      The Government's contribution to IEDA's working capital would be
YR 315,000 (para. 4.07). During the first three years of its operation, IEDA
is not expected to have sufficient revenues to cover its operating cost, and
would incur a cumulative cash deficit of YR 234,000, were it not covered by
the Government's contribution of working capital. If, through operating costs
that are higher or revenues that are lower than those projected, IEDA would
incur any additional losses during its initial years of operation, the Govern-
ment has agreed to reimburse IEDA for such losses in case IEDA has not accumu-
lated sufficient surplus funds from which to cover these losses itself. This
commitment of the Government expires at the time when IEDA has for the first
time let all the facilities of the estate, but not later than December 31,
1980.



- 27 -
C.   Debt-Service_Coverage and Audits
6.12      The cash flow forecasts in para. 6.09 and Table 12 show that IEDA
should be able to service its debt. Debt-service-coverage is only 1.1 in 1980
and 1981, but by 1980 IEDA should have already accumulated YR 665,000 in surplus
cash. During negotiations agreement was reached that IEDA will not without the
approval of the Association incur any medium- or long-term debt unless its debt-
service-coverage would still be at least 1.5 after including the service for
the new debt. Normally, IEDA will transfer its surplus cash into a reserve
fund for future expansion of its activities, but it could make transfer payments
to the Government if the surplus cash were not needed for future activities.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that no such transfer payments (other
than for debt service) would be made to the Government without the consent
of the Association. Agreement was also reached that IEDA's accounts will
annually be audited by an independent auditing firm acceptable to the
Association.
D.   Financial Return
6.13      It should be clear from the foregoing that to calculate the finan-
cial return of chis long-lived industrial estate project, must by necessity
be a somewhat arbitrary undertaking, and the results should be viewed with
caution. This applies even more for any calculation of the financial return
for Phases II and III. It is obvious, however, that if industrial development
in Yemen continues as anticipated and these two phases are implemented, their
incremental financial return should be markedly above the financial return
of Phase I, and improve the overall return of the estate.
6.14      The lifetime of Phase I has been assumed as 30 years, with only
land and half of the original investment in land development (not buildings)
taken as residual value. The salaries of IEDA's staff have been assumed to
increase at a rate 1 percentage point above the rate of inflation. Rents
have been assumed to increase at a rate of 4 percentage points above the rate
of inflation, to reflect the expected increase in demand for industrial sites
in Yemen in general and on the Sana'a estate in particular. On the basis
of these assumptions, the project's financial return in real terms is 8.3%
if the cost of technical assistance is excluded (Table 14). If the cost
of technical assistance is included, this would reduce the financial return
to 6.5%. The probability that the return falls below these values is low,
while the probability is higher for the return to be above these values. A
10% increase in IEDA's revenues would increase the financial return to 9.3%.
A 10% increase in construction cost would reduce it to 7.6%, but it is unlikely
that construction cost would go up without at least a partial set-off through
higher rents.
6.15      The same assumptions regarding lifetime, residual value, and
changes in real prices have been used for calculating the incremental return
for Phases II and III, and an overall return, for the entire estate, comprising
all three phases. Full occupancy of Phase II has been assumed in 1983 and
of Phase III in 1986 (para. 3.13). Under these assumptions, the incremental
return in real terms of Phase II would be 13%, of Phase III 12%, and the
overall return of Phases I through III 11.5%.



- 28 -
E.   Major Risks
6.16      There are three major risks in the project.  One risk is simply the
possibility that the stimulus to industrial investment in Yemen proves weak
or fades away, and that hence few, and inadequate, numbers of enterprises
settle on the estate. Secondly, the same could happen even with continuing
industrial investment, if in spite of the attractions of the estate and its
attendant incentives, entrepreneurs still prefer to locate in traditional
areas -- through distrust of new things, an ingrained desire for anonymity to
escape the notice of Government, or a belief that they can more effectively
exploit their labor, lower costs, ant raise their profits by doing so. It is
evident that the caliber of IEDA's experts will play an important role in
convincing Yemen's merchants of the benefits that they could derive from the
estate. In any case, the risk that settlement on the estate will be even
slower than is forecast under the assumptions made, is judged not to be great,
for reasons set forth earlier in the report -- including the recent growth
in industrial investment, the favorable response of the merchants in the sur-
vey, and the increase in consumer demand. The adverse effects that would
result from slow settlement have also been reduced to the minimum through
the proposed phasing of the industrial estate development.
6.17      The third risk concerns the possibility that YBRD would not be able
to make available credit funds in foreign exchange in the amount required
because of a rapid drop in its liquidity. Though liquidity is high at present,
the possibility of an erosion through capital flight or hoarding, or reduc-
tion in the remittances from Yemenis working abroad cannot be completely ruled
out. The circumstances in which that might occur normally involve sharp and
persistent inflation, government policies that are regarded as inimical to
the safety of the funds, or those events that are usually included in the
term force majeure. At the present time the risks of any of these occurrences
are low.
6.18      Nevertheless, the overall risk in the project is regarded as higher
than in the usual industrial project; what is being attempted here involves
a shift in the milieu in which industrial activity takes place, and this
type of fundamental change is inherently risky. At the same time, while the
obstacles to be overcome are great, the potential benefits are also great.



- 29 -
VII. ECONOMIC AND OTHER BENEFITS
7.01      The potential "worth" of this project cannot adequately be measured
by a financial or economic return, or by any other single measure. The nearly
complete lack of a modern industrial sector makes it clear that the justifi-
cation for the project does not consist merely of marginal, though significant,
improvements in the fabric of industrial development. The project is recom-
mended because of its demonstration effects, because it will provide a model
and a pattern for future industrial development. It will provide an alterna-
tive and a contrast to the bazaar. In economic and social terms, it will
provide an opportunity for enterprises to improve the quality and the quantity
of their output through the institution of modern production methods; the
consuming public will be better served. For labor, the estate offers the
prospect of safer and more healthful working conditions, plus a better
opportunity to raise productivity and increase income. No attempt is being
made to quantify the project's benefits. This is an experimental project that
assumes that economic and social change in industrial activity can take place,
given the attractions and incentives offered, plus the support of government
policies generally. A few years ago, a project such as this would have been
premature, but the circumstances now seem favorable.
7.02      The estate can be expected to accelerate the growth of import-
substituting, small-scale industry in Yemen. By centralizing in a single
package industrial sites and standard factory buildings with all utilities,
and technical and financial assistance, the estate will help Yemen's merchants
to take the critical step from dealing in import trade to investing in manu-
facturing industry to replace such imports. The estate will thus help to
develop local industrial entrepreneurs, and generate employment and savings
in foreign exchange. It is also possible that the estate will lead to private
foreign investment in manufacturing, though this is likely to remain relatively
unimportant. Some investors from other Arab countries (primarily Lebanon)
have shown interest in investing in Yemen. The total amount of investment,
employment, production and income on the industrial estate can, of course, not
be imputed to its creation, but only the additional amounts generated if
compared to a situation without the estate. However, in Yemen, with its very
limited industrial experience, it is difficult to assess even the total amounts,
let alone the incremental investments created through the estate. These
amounts will also depend on the mix of industrial enterprises that will even-
tually settle on the estate. Total employment on the estate at the end of
Phase I could reach 400 to 500.
7.03      The concentration of industrial enterprises on the estate, as
opposed to the haphazard and dispersed pattern which would occur otherwise,
will greatly facilitate the planning of infrastructure and lead to consider-
able savings in investment per enterprise. It will ensure that industrial
settlement will take place with due consideration to the environment, and
the future expansion of Sana'a.



- 30 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(1)  the Government
(a) will ensure that all necessary utility connections
for which agencies other than IEDA have responsibility
will be provided to the estate (para. 3.09);
(b) will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with IEDA
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.06);
(c) will make available to IEDA the land, and initial work-
ing capital of YR 315,000 as equity (para. 4.07), and
finance the local currency cost of the technical
assistance provided to IEDA (para. 4.08);
(d) will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with YBRD
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para. 4.10) that - among others - will provide that
YBRD will employ a banking expert (para. 3.14), charge
an interest rate on loans from the credit facility
that is not less than the prevailing rates for short-
term loans plus an adequate margin to account for medium
or long maturity (para. 3.19), and bear one fourth of the
losses from bad debts incurred under loans from the
credit facility, the remaining three fourth to be borne
by the Gover ent (para. 3.20); YBRD's accounts con-
cerning the credit facility will be annually audited
(para. 4.10);
(e) will reimburse IEDA for any loss that it might incur
in operating the estate and that exceeds any surplus
funds that IEDA might have accumulated. This obliga-
tion of the Government ends when IEDA will have let
all facilities of the estate or December 31, 1980,
whichever comes earlier (para 6.11).
(2) The Industrial Estate Authority
(a) will prepare by not later than September 30, 1974,
guidelines on the types of industry to be permitted
on the estate, general economic and financial criteria
that should apply to estate enterprises, and building
design standards that should be followed by enterprises
that build their own factory space on the estate
(para. 3.05);



- 31 -
(b) will employ an advisor to IEDA's Director General,
acceptable to the Association and upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.14);
(c) will employ by not later than July 1, 1974, engineer-
ing consultants acceptable to the Association and
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion (para. 5.02);
(d) will rent its facilities to new estate occupants for
an initial term of not less than three years, and will
adjust its rents and fees so as to cover its operating
expenses and interest on debt, and--starting 1980-to
earn a return of not less than 8% on its net fixed
assets in operation (para. 6.08);
(e) will not without the approval of the Association incur
medium-or long-term debt unless its debt-service-cover-
age will still be at least 1.5 times after including
the service for the new debt, and will not make transfer
payments (other than for debt service) to the Govern-
ment without the approval of the Association (para.
6.12);
(f) will have its accounts audited annually by an inde-
pendent auditing firm acceptable to the Association
(para. 6.12).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the Credit are:
(a)  appointment by IEDA of the advisor to its Director General
(para. 3.15);
(b)  conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and IEDA (para. 4.06);
(c)  conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Government and YBRD (para. 4.10).
8.03      The Government has enacted legislation satisfactory to the Associa-
tion establishing IEDA (para. 3.03).
8.04      The Government has confirmed that it holds the site selected for
the estate, free of all claims (para. 3.07).
8.05      The proposed project provides an acceptable basis for an IDA
Credit of US$2.3 million equivalent to the Government of the Yemen Arab
Republic.
Industrial Projects Department
January 4, 1974






TABLE 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
NUMBER OF NEI ENTERPRISEvY YEAR
OF ESTA.BLISHMENT AND LOCATION
Year                  Total      Sana'a        Taiz       Hodeida          Others
Before 1963                   528          133          19           287              89
1963                    35          15            4             8              8
1964                    31          18            5             2              6
1965                    43          20            7             2             14
1966                    50          25            6             3             16
1967                    65          20           16             9             20
1968                    89          19           19            11             40
1969                   101          17           19           13              52
1970                   170          49           26            16             79
1971                   122          36           18            11              57
1972                   201          86           26            19             70
1973                   184          94           15            18             57
Total     31619          532         180           399             508
/ncludes all enterDrise8 in traditional handicraft, modern manufacturing,
mining and quarrying, power generating, car repairs, and printing.
/ Six months only.
Source: Central Planning Organization, September, 1973.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEN ARAB R2EPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATS PRJECT
RECORDED EKPORTS BY PRINCIPAL CMOI*OITIES
(YR 1 million)
1969       1970        1971         1972
Coffee                       7.8         8.1          4.6          5.3
Quati/                       2.1         4.3          2.8          1.0
Cotton                       0.4          -           8.0         7.1
Hides & Skins                4.0         1.2          2.0          3.4
Rock Salt                    1.4         1.5          2.4          0.7
Others                     --.83 0f7                  :L.8         2f5
Total         18.0       15.8          21.6        20.0
/ A mild narcotic leaf, exported exclusively to People's Dmocratic Republic
of Yemen.
Source: Central Bank of Yemen
Industrial Projects Departaent
November 13, 1973



TABLE 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
RECORDED  IMPORT OF SELECTED GOODS SUITABLE FOR IOCAL SIv1ALL-SCALE PRODUCTION
(YR 1000)
1969         1970         1971        1972
Macaroni, Spaghetti                        91           105         495         n.a.
Bread, Biscuits                           406         1,101       1,107         n.a.
Sugar Confectionary                       512         3,812       1,574        2,006
Ghee                                      n.a.        5,422      10,568        8,843
Soap                                    1,669         2,148         995        3,478
Matches, Candles                           11            13         234         n.a.
Yarn and Thread                           340           623       1,302          676
Cotton Fabrics                            n.a.        3,295       2,041        4,574
Ready-made Clothes                        n.a.          383       1,576        6,863
Buttons                                    29            27         148         n.a.
Footwear                                1,893         2,290       3,076        4,927
Lighting Fixtures                         532           248         573        1,822
Furniture                                 472           550         662        1,747
Glass (Sheet)                              92           651         355          497
Glassware                                 n.a.          n.a.        454        1,545
Nails                                      70           122         341          n.a.
Locks                                     315           219         436          n.a.
Cutlery                                   405            51         251          n.a.
Pumps and Centrifuges./                   n.a.        2,361       2,566        3,532
Tires and Tubes2/                         n.a.          935       1,882        3,784
1/ Some casting and machining, but primarily assembly could be done locally.
2/ Retreading would be a suitable industry.
Scource:  Central Bank of Yemen.
industrial Projects DeDartment
November 13, 1973



- YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
BALANCE  OF  PAYMENTS  ESTIMATES
(U.S. $ Million)
1969       1970      1971       1972
Trade Balance                               -57.7       -82.6     -65.7     -111.1
Exports 1/                                   7.9      _77          6.4        6.8
Imports 2/                                 -65.6      -88.4    -72.1    -117.9
Invisibles and Transfers                     47.2        62.7      52.7      117.5
Net invisible receipts and
remittances by Yemenis
working abroad 3/                          42.0       45.0       47.0       96.1
Official and private cash and com-
modity grants                               5.2        17.7       5.7       21.4
Current Balance                             -10.5      -19.9      -13.0        6.4
Non-monetary capital                         10.5        29.9      29.5
Official project loans, net                13.1       17.9        *.6       10.4
Other official loans, net                   -           8.2      12.6        -
Balances with Central Bank of
Egypt                                     -          0.6         -         -
Errors and omissions (including
private capital                          -2.6         3.2       7.2        9.0
SDR allocations                               -            -        1.1        -
Monetary movements (-increase in
assets                                     -        -10.0      -16.5      -26.2
Central Bank                               -           .2      -15.1       18.o
gold, silver and convertible
foreign exchange                   ( _ )      (-6.2)   (-14.0)    (-17.6)
SDR holdings                        (   -       ) (  )   (- 1.1)    (--1.2)
Commercial banks                      -         -3.8      -2.5       - 7.4
I/ Rock salt and cotton exports from customs data; qat exports from import records of Peoples
Democratic Republic of Yemen; for other exports, customs figures were increased by one-
third to allow for unrecorded exports.
v Estimate of private sector imports based on letters of credit opened with the banking
system, adjusted for estimated lags, and increased by 33% of customs-recorded imports to allow
for imports paid for abroad.  Estimate for public sector importsfrom foreign aid disbursements;
commodity grants were also inflated by 33% to allow for underestimation of actual transactions.
2 Banking system receipts adjusted upwards to the extent that estimated imports were financed
from unrecorded sources.
Source: Central Bank of Yemen
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



TABLE 5
YE:N ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
TECHNICAIL ASSISTANCE:, MANPOWER REQUIREMENTS
------- --------       nt- Ma-              -----------
Total    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979
1. Foreign Experts
Adviser to
Director-Genlral-  45         9      12       12      12        -       -
Industrial Fngineer 60        -       12      12       12      12      12
Short-term
Consultants      18        -        -       3       6        6       3
Banking Expert       24       -        6      12        6       -        -
Total      147        9      30       39      36      18
2. Training Abroad
of Yemeni Staff
Director General      6       6        -
Yemeni Industrial    6        -        6
Engineer
12       6       6                  -      -
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUST1IAL  $TATE PROJECT
STRUCTURE OF INTEREST RATES
(per cent per annum)
Sept.   Jan.    June    June    Dec.    June
1964    1967    1970    1971    1971    1972
Central Bank
Discount and interest
on Treasury bills          -        -       1       1        1       3
Y.RD/Coi  cal
Banks               2/
Debtor interest rates-
Advance to Government   3        3        4       4        3       4
Commercial and other
advances              7       7        8       8        8       9
Mortgage and personal
loans                10      10       11      11       11      11
Creditor Interest rates
Demand deposits              -            -       -        -       -
Fixed deposits
3 months                      3        3       3        3       4
Over3 to 6 months    3       A       3-1/3   3       3      5
Over 6 to 9 months            4        4       4       4 h
Over 9 to 12 months           4       4      h       h      6
Savings Deposit                     3       3       3        3       4
1/ Until June 1971, YBRD only.
2/ In principal, banks do not give credits for more than 12 months, except
where credits are rolled over.
Source: Central Bank of Yemen
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT COST
TOTAL (1973 Prices)                                                              PHASE I  ONLY
(YR 1,000)                      (US$ 1,000)                            (YR 1,000)                                    (US$ 1,000)
Local       Foreign        Total                Local         Foreign         Total
1.  LAND                                        2.340                              520                     585            -          585                   130             -            130
2.  LAND DEVELOPMENT                            1,165                              258                    447            259          706                    99            57           156
Site Clearance,
Levelling                                  131                               29                     92            39          131                    20              9            29
Site Fencing                                182                               40                    143             37         180                    32              8           40
Surface Drainage                            42                                 9                      8              6           14                    2              1             3
Roads                                      378                                84                     94            40          134                    21             9             30
Water Supply                               158                                35                     68            58          126                    15             13            28
Power Supply                                 76                               17                     14            37           51                     3              8            11
Sewerage                                     77                               17                     13              9           22                    3              2             5
Street Light and  Telephone                 121                               27                     15            33           48                     3              7            10
3.  BUILDINGS                                   9,591                            2,131                   1,220        1,082         2,302                   271           241           512
Administrative Center                      640                               142                     85             75         160                    19             17            36
Warehouse & Special Workshops               383                               85                       -             -           -                      -             -             -
Standard Factory Buildings               8,568                             1,904                  1,135         1,007        2,142                   252            224          476
4.  EQUIPMENT                                   1,035                              230                      68           292          360                    16            64            80
Office Furniture & Equip-
ment, Cars                                 225                               50                     34           101          135                      8            22            30
Fire Fighting Equipment                     135                               30                       -             -           -                      -             -             -
Equipment for Special
Workshops and Repairshop          675                              150                      34           191          225                     8            42            50
5.  ENGINEERING                                   752                              168                     250            43          293                    55            10            65
6.  CONTINGENCIES                               1,881                              418                   1,300           719        2,099                   288           178           466
Physical                                  1,881                              418                     298           251          549                    66            56           122
Price Escalation                             -                                -                   1,002            548        1,550                  223            122           345
Sub-total                      16,764                            3,725                   3.870         2.475        6,345                   860           550         1,410
7.  WORKING CAPITAL                                -                                -                      315            -           315                    70            -             70
8.  INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                   -                                                       813            -           813                   180            -            180
TOTAL PROJECT COST                    166764                              3.725                 4,998         2,475       7,473                  1.110            550         1 660
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



TABLE 8
YEMET ARAR REPUPLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
COST OF TECINICAI ASSISTANCE AND FINANCING PLAN
YR 1,OOO     _              US$ 1,000
Foreign   Local   Total      Foreign   Local   Total
A. Cost of Technical
Assistance
1. IEDA
-Foreign Experts         1,548     252    1,800         344       56     400
-Training Abroad
of Yemeni Staff            27      18        L           6        4      10
Sub-total           1,575      270    1,845         350      60      410
2. YBRD                    315    _4          60         70       10      80
GRAND TOTAL             12890     315    2,205         420       70     490
B. Financing Plan
1.  IDA                  1,890      -      1,890        420       -      420
2.  Government             -       270       270         -        60      60
3.  YPRD                   -                  145  45     -       10      10
TOTAL                   1,890           .20 J0                         1490
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



TABLE 9
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ 1,000)
Disbursements for  Disbursements  Disbursements                          Cuaulative
IDA Fiscal Year   Development of    for Technical   for Credit         Total Quarterly   Disbursements
and Quarter      Industrial Estate   Assistance       Facility        Disbursements   at Ead of Quartr
FY 1974
IV                      25                 9              -                   34               34
FY 1975
I                       25                 9              -                   34               68
II                       25                 8              -                   33              101
III                       25                17              -                   42              143
IV                       25                17              -                   42              185
FY 1976
I                      140                25              -                  165              350
II                      145                25              -                  170              520
III                      155                28             37                  220              740
IV                      160                28             37                  225              965
FY 1977
I                       65                28             38                  131            1,096
II                       -                 28             38                   66           1,162
III                       60                30             37                  127            1,289
IV                       60                30             37                  127            1,416
FY 1978
I                       55                 21            38                  114            1,530
II                       60                 21            38                  119            1,649
III                       65                 13            37                  115            1,764
IV                       65                 13            37                  115            1,879
FY 1979
I                       60                 13            38                  111            1,990
II                       65                 13            38                  116            2,106
III                                           11            37                  48            2,154
IV                                          11             37                  48            2,202
FY 1980
I                                          11             38                  49            2,251
II                        _                 11             38                  49            2,300
1,280                420           600               2,300
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPNENT AUTHORITY
EXPENDITURES FOR FIXED ASSETS. CAPITAL ACCOlNT. PHASE I
(YR 1,000)
TOTAL            1974              1975             1976           1977             1978
RECEIPTS
GOVERNNENT                                                              1,398             594                62              158            250              334
Equity                                                                 585             585 
Loan                                                                   813               9                62             158             250              334
IDA                                                                    5.760              337             1.508           1.707           1.044            1,164
Equity                                                               2,160             126               566             640             392              436
Loan                                                                 3.600             211               942           1.06              652              728
TOTAL RECEIPTS                                        7,1CR9            _I1_.57                          1.865          1.294            1,498
EXPENDITURES
LAND                                                                     585              585                 -               -                -              -
LAND DEVELOPMENT                                                          706              -                567             139                _              _
Site clearance, levelling                                              131              -                131               -
Site fencing                                                           160              -                180
Surface drainage                                                        14              -                 14
Roads                                                                  134              -                134
Water supply                                                           126              -                108              18
Power supply                                                            51              -                  -              51
Sewerage                                                                22              -                  -              22                -              -
Street light and telephone                                             48               -                  -              48                -              -
BUILDINGS                                                               2.302              -                359             719              612             612
Administration Center                                                  160              -                 53             107                -
Warehouse & Special Workshops                                            -              _                  _               _
Standard Factory Buildings                                          2,142               -               306              612              612             612
EQUIPMENT                                                                 360             135                 -             225                -              -
Office furniture and equipment, cars                                   135             135                                 -
Fire fighting equipment
Equipment for special workshops & repairshops                          225              -                  -             225                -              -
CONTINGENCY (Other Costs)                                                 549              39               159             167               92              92
ENGINEERING & PROCUREMENT                                                 293             130               133              30                -              -
Sub-Total (1973 prices)                                             4.795              889             1,218           1.280              704             704
PRICE ESCALATION                                                        1,550              33               290             427              340             460
Sub-Total (actual prices)                                            6,345             922             1.508           1,707            1.044           1.164
INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION                                              813               9                62             158              250             334
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                                    7.158              931            1.570            1.865            1.294           1.498
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
REVENUES, PHASE I
(YR 1,000)
1974        1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981         1982         1983
Vacant Sites Leased                     (3,000 m2 each)               -            -            -            -             1            1           -            -            -            -
Production Area Leased                  (400 m2 each)                 -            -             5            5            5           5            -            -            -            -
Quantity of Water Sold (in m3)          (300 m3 p.a. each)            -            -           750       3,000        4,800        6,600        6,600        6,600        6,600         6,600
Quantity of Power Sold (in 1,000 kwh) (60,000 kwh p.a. each)          -            -           150          600          960       1,320        1,320        1,320        1,320          1,320
Revenues
Rent for Vacant Sites                                                 -            -            -            -          203         25.3          25.3        25.3        31.7           31.7
-         25.3          25.3        25.3        31.7          31.7
Sub-total              -            -            -            -          20.3        50.6          50.6        50.6        63.4           63.4
Rent for Production Area                                              -            -           67.5       135.0       135.0        168.8         168.8       168.8       211.0         211.0
-         135.0       135.0        168.8         168.8       168.8       211.0         211.0
-  -  -     -         135.0        168.8         168.8       168.8       211.0         211.0
-               -            -        168.8          168.8       168.8       211.0         211.0
Sub-total               -            -           67.5        270.0      405.0        675.2          675.2       675.2       844.0         844.0
Revenue from Sale of Water and Power                                  -            -            7.7         30.8       49.2         67.7          67.7        67.7        67.7           67.7
Revenue from Use of Repairshop                                        _            -            8.0         11.0        16.0         16.0          16.0        16.0        16.0          16.0
Sub-total                -            -           15.7         41.8        65.2         83.7          83.7        83.7        83.7          83.7
TOTAL REVENUES               -           _           83.2        311.8       490.5        809.5         809.5       809.5       991.1         991.1
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
CURRENT ACCOUNT, PHASE I
(YR 1,000)
1974          1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980         1981          1982         1983         1984          1985         1986
RECEIPTS
1/
Revenues-                            -            -             83          312          491          810          810           810          991          991          991         1,218        1,218
Technical Assistance Grant2/
- IDA                            126            316          340          378          227          189           -            -             -            -            -             -            _
- Government                      27             58           55           61           37           31
Working Capital Contribution
- Government                     135            112           68           -           _             -            -            -             -            -                          - 
Total Receipts                 288            486          546          751          755        1,030          810          810           991          991          991        1,218         1,218
EXPENDITURES
Technical Assistance                153           374          395          439          264           220           -            -            -            -             -            -
Operating Cost3/                     54           112          151          200          226          255           268          281          295          310           326          342          359
Debt Service
- Interest                        -              -            -            -                        397          397          389          379           369          358          346           332
- Principal                       -              -            -            -            -            -            96          104           114          124          135           147          161
Total Expenditures             207           486           546          639          490          872          761          774           788          803          819           835          852
Surplus (Deficit)                    81            -            -           112          265          158            49           36          203          188           172          383          366
Cumulative Surplus (Deficit)         81            81           81          193          458          616          665           701          904        1,092        1,264         1,647        2,013
Debt Service Coverage                -             -            -            -            -           1.4           1.1          1.1          1.4          1.4           1.3          1.8          1.7
1/ See Table 11
2/ Foreign exchange component financed by IDA, local currency component by Goverment
3, See Table 13
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVFLOPMENT AUTHORITY
OPERATING COSTS PIASI 1
(YR 1,OOO0
1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
1.  Salaries of   1/     15.3   55.9   87.6  109.5  115.5  121.0  127.1  133.4  140.1  147.1  154.5  162.2   170.3
Yemeni Staff
2.  Cost of Adminis-     39.1   51.6   32.5   26.3   26.3   27.4   28.8   30.2   31.7    33.3    35.0    36.7    38.6
tration an&
Promotion -
3.  Cost of      3         -      4.1   31.1   63.9   84.2  106.7  112.0  117.6  123.5  129.7  136.2  143.0   150.1
Maintenance-
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS   54.4  111.6  151.2  199.7  226.0  255.1  267.9  281.2   295.3  310.1  325.7  341.9   359.0
1/ Assumed to increase by 5% a year. See Table 13, Page 2.
2/ Includes stationery, communications, utilities, travel, publications, etc.
3/ Assumed as 2% of investment in land development, buildings and equipment.
IV3
HD
U.



TABLE 13
Page 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
ESTIMATED SALARIES OF YEMENI STAFF
Monthly
Salary
Date of Appointment          in 19741/
(YR)
1, Director-General                       April 1Y74 2              1,600
2. Yemeni Industrial Engineer             April 1975 2/            1,300
3. Mechanic                               July 1976                   850
4. Electrician                            January 1977                850
5.  Clerk                                 April 1974                  700
6.  First Typist                          April 1974                  600
7. Second Typist                          January 1975                600
8.  Watchmen (4)                          January 1976                200
9.  Drivers (2)                           July 1974                   300
1/  Salaries are assumed to increase by 5p a year.
2/ Six months of training abroad after date of appointment.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



TABLE 14
BMN ARAB REPUBLC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVEICPMENT AUTHIOITI
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN, PM  I
(YR 1,000)
Year          ProJect Cost                oerating Costl'            Revenues
Nominal      Real          Nominal       Real         Noainal       Real
1 (1974)   1,003       1,003              54         54             -            -
2          1,508       1,450             112        108             -            -
3          1,707       1,578             151        140              83          77
4          1,0044        928             200        178             312         277
5          1,16          995             226        193             491         420
6            -           -               255        210             810         665
7            -           -               268        212             810         640
8            -           -               281        214             810         616
9            -           -               295        215             991         723
10            -           -               310        217             991         702
11            -           -               326        220             991         669
12            -           -               342        222           1,218         792
______________________________________________________________________________________
13            -           -               344        224           1,267         823
*~~ _                                 *           *S 
29            _           _               372        242           2,373       1,543
30            -           -               374        244           4,766       2,884
Financial Rate of Return: 10.8% (nominal)
8.3% (real)
Main Assumptions:
1. Project life is 30 years.
2. Residual value is land plus half of the investment in land development.
3. Rate of inflation during first 12 years of project life is 4% p.a., but
discntinues thereafter.
4. Salaries of IEDA's staff increase 1 percentage point above rate of infla-
tion throughout project life.
5. IEDA's rents increase 4 percentage points above rate of inflation througb-
out project life.
1/ Excluding cost of technical assistance.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973






ANNEX 1
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
SUMMARY OF INDUSTRIAL CENSUS OF 1972
1.        In early 1972, a government census of industry was carried out
that covered all enterprises with more than four workers in mining, manufac-
turing, electricity generating, and certain services (car repairshops and
printing). The 351 enterprises employed 6,706 workers or 19.1 per enterprise.
The value of their total production in 1971 was YR 69.7 million (US$15.5 mil-
lion) or YR 0.2 million (US$44,000) per enterprise. However, these averages
include a few larger scale operations: the textile mill in Sana'a (1,438
workers), the salt mine at Salif (250 workers) and 27 power companies (in
total 1,126 workers). If these were excluded, the number of establishments
would be 322, employing 3,892 workers or 12.1 workers per enterprise and
producing goods and services worth YR 49.8 million or YR 0.15 million
(US$33,000) per enterprise in 1971. Seventy percent of the establishments
had less than 10 workers, and only 4% had more than 50 workers (Table i).
The manufacturing enterprises were producing either foodstuffs, non-durable
consumer goods, or building materials. The 351 enterprises are listed below
by branch of industry, employment and value of production. More details are
provided in Table (ii).
Number of Enterprises Covered by
Industrial Census by Branch of Industry, Employment,
Production
Employment     Production (1971)
No. of Establishments    No. of          Million
Branch of Industry          Nos.            %          Workers   %    Rials    %
(1) Construction Materials,
Fixtures and Furniture 128         36.5 (54.0)    1,123    16.7   8.3   11.9
(2) Food, Beverages &
Tobacco                  88        25.1 (37.1)       952    14.2  15.3   22.0
(3) Textiles                 16         4.6 ( 6.8)    2,016    30.0  25.4   36.5
(4) Miscellaneous /1          5         1.4 ( 2.1)       129      1.9   3.0    4.3
Total Manufacturing   237         67.6(100.0)    4,220    62.8  52.0   74.7
(5) Car Servicing            63        17.8              766    11.4   3.8    5.5
(6) Printing and
Publishing                8         2.3               92      1.4   1.0    1.4
Total Manufacturing
and Services           308        87.7            5,078    75.6  56.8   81.6
(7) Stone Quarrying and
Gypsum Mining            15         5.3              252      3.8   1.9    2.7
(8) Salt Mining               1         0.3              250      3.7   1.7    2.4
(9) Electricity Generating  27          7.7            1,26    16.8   9.3   13.3
Grand Total            351       100.0            6,706   100.0  69.7  100.0
/1   Comprises production of aluminum utensils, shoes, paints, paper bags, and
oxygen.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
2.        The census results also show that practically all enterprises were
located at one of Yemen's three main towns. 1/ The results of the census on
regional distribution of industry, employment and production are shown in
Table (iii), and summarized below:
Sana'a     Taiz       Hodeida      Others
No. of Establishments                 88       104          150           9
Employment                        2,725      1,060        2,874         47
Production (YR million, 1971)       17.6      13.6         38.4        0.1
Hodeida is first in number of establishments (42.7%), employment (42.9%) and
value of production (55.1%). Sana'a is last in number of establishments
(25.1%) but second in employment (40.6%) and value of production (25.2%) be-
cause Yemen's largest manufacturing enterprise, the Chinese-built textile
factory, is located there. In 1971, this enterprise alone employed 1,438
workers or 21.4% of the country's total industrial employment and contributed
12.7% of the country's total value of production. If one excludes this one
enterprise, then it is fair to say that Hodeida is Yemen's most "industrial-
ized" town, followed with some distance by Taiz and then Sana'a.
3.        About three out of four of the 351 establishments had single owner-
ship. Half of the remainder were partnerships, the other half were limited
companies and cooperatives or had government and government/private owner-
ship. Government-owned and partly government-owned establishments plus
limited companies are practically identical with the larger scale operations
in Yemen. Government establishments are concentrated around the seaport
(Hodeida) and the capital (Sana'a). Table (iv) gives the detailed results
of the census by ownership and location.
4.        Less than half of the 351 enterprises existed before 1967.  Table
(v) shows that the number of new enterprises established each year, in each
of the three main towns has practically constantly been rising, from a total
of 24 new enterprises in 1967 to 69 in 1971. It is interesting to compare
the results of the industrial census in Table (v) with the data in Table 1,
attached to the main body of the report. Both cover the same kind of indus-
tries (para. 1 above) but the latter covers all enterprises, the former only
enterprises with more than four workers. In 1971, a total of 122 enterprises
was established, but only 69 had more than four workers.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973
1/   The census lists the establishments only per province, but in actual
fact this is equivalent to the provincial capital.



ANNEX 1
Table (i)
YEN, AAULB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATF PROJECT
NMeJ13R OF ESTABLISMENTS COVERED BY INDUSTRIAL CENSUS
BY SIZE OF IPLOYMNT AND LOCATION
No. of
Workers        Total       Sana'a         Taiz          ITodeida           Other
5  -  9          2h7          69           82               88               8
1o  - 14C                      8           11              30                1
15 - 19           13           2            4               7
20 - 24           10           2            2                6
25 - 29            2           -            -               2
30-3               5           -            3                2
35- 39             h                                         4
40 - 44            _           _            _ 
45- 49             6           6
50 and above      '4                        2               11
lotal                        88          134             150               9
Source:  Central Planning Organization, Census of Industries, February 1973
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table (ii)
YELIEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
INEUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
NUMBER OF ESTABLISHMENTS COVERED BY INDUSTRALL CENSUS,
EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTION
Branch of Industry                             No. of Establishments    No. of Workers        Production
(YR 1,000)
(1971)
Construction Materials                                    51                     500            46178
a.  Cement blocks, tiles, etc.                       29                     308             2,83_
b.  Clay bricks                                      22                     192             1,340
Fixtures and Furniture                                    77                     623             4 122
a.  Metal furniture and fixtures                                            227             1,
b.  Wood products                                    52                     396             2,260
Food Stuffs                                               78                      5                X
a.  Bakery                                           53                     3 2               '32
b.  Confectionary                                    22                     164             2,600
c.  Spices                                            3                      24               100
Beverages                                                  5                     247             6'877
a.  Soft drink                                        3                     222             6,642
b.  Ice                                               2                      25               235
Tobacco Products                                           5                     155             2,o62
a.  Cigarettes                                        1                     121             1,792
b.  Tobacco powder                                    4                      34               270
Textiles                                                  I6                   2,016            25,32
a.  Ginning                                           2                     192            14,8c8
b.  Spinning, weaving, finishing                     14                   1,824            10,5466
Car Servicing                                             63                     766             3,751
Printing and Publishing                                    8                      92             1,012
Other                                                      5                     129             3 101
a. Aluminum Utensils                                  1                      T3             1,215
b. Shoes                                              1                      17               504
c. Paints                                             1                       9               878
d. Paper bags                                         1                      13                25
e. Oxygen                                             1                       7               373
Total Manufacturing and Services                   308                    5,o78            56,817
Stone Quarrying and Gypsum Mining                         15                     252             1 887
a. Stone quarrying                                   11                     216             1,h1d
b. Gypsum mining                                      4                      36               469
Salt Mining                                                1                     250             1,710
Electricity                                               27                   1,126             9,256
Grand 'Total                              6,706
Source: Central Planning Organization, Census of Industries, February 1973
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION BY GOVERNORATES OF ESTABLISHMENTS COVERED
BY INDUSTRIAL CENSUS, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTION
Branch of Industry                                              No. of Establishments                               No. of Workers                                Production (YR 1.000)  (1971)
Sana'a     Taiz      Hodeida       Other        Sana'a      Taiz     Hodeida       Other       Sana'a      Taiz      Hodeida        Other
Construction Materials                                     12         10          29          -             88         116        296          -           672       928         2,578         -
Fixtures and Furniture                                     42         16          16          3            262         118         225         18        1,241       883         1,890         108
Food Stuffs                                                  9        25          43          1             60         208         277          5           305    1,975         4,036          16
Beverages                                                    -         1           4          -              -          56         191         -            -      2,C23         4,854          -
Tobacco Products                                             -         -           5          -              -          -          155         -            -         -           2,062         -
Textiles                                                     1         -          15          -          1,438          -          578         -         8,874       -          16,478          -
Car Servicing                                               16        28          19          -           416          192         158        -          1,355    1,516             880         -
Printing and Publishing                                      1         5           2          -             51          27          14         -            349      198            495         -
other                                                        1         3           1          -             17         105           7         -            610    2.118            373         -
Total Manufacturing and Services                         82         88         134          4          2,332         822      1,901         23        13,406    9,641         33,646         124
Stone Quarrying and Gypsum Mining                            3         8           4          -            100          79          73         -            211      970            706         -
Salt Mining                                                  -         -           1          -              -           -         250         -              -         -         1,710         -
Electricity                                                  3         8          11          5            293         159         650         24         3,954    2,976          2,312         14
Grand Total                  88       104         150          9          2,725       1,060      2,874   47              17571   13,587           38,374        138
Source: Central Planning Organization, Census of Industries, February 1973.
Industrial Projects Department
Niovember 13, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table (iv)
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
NUMBER OF ESTABLISHMENTS COVERED BY INDUSTRIAL
CENSUS BY TYPE OF OWNERSHIP AND LOCATION
Ownership                                       Location
Total      Sana a       Taiz      Hodeida        Other
Single Ownership            261          64          76           115           6
Partnership                  49          12          20            15           2
Limited Coipany              13           3           4             5           1
Co-operative                  4           -           2             2           -
Goverrment                   18           7           1            10           -
Government/Private            6           2           1             3           -
351_i        88         104          1509
Source: Central Planning Organization, Census of Industries, February 1973
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



ANNEX 1
Table (vj
YXEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
NUl'BE OF iKW ENTERFRISES WITH MORE THAN FOUR V4ORKERS
BY YEAR OF ESTABLISB)IT  M    LOCATION
Year         Total       Sana'a        Taiz      Hodeida         Others
Up  to  1960           60           7            5            8
1961-1966           88          16          29             42            1
1967             24           7          10              5            2
1968             35          10          16              9            -
1969             33           3          13             15            2
1970             42          11          12             16            3
1971             69          34          19             15            1
Total                    88         104           1               9
Source:  Central Planning Organization, Census of Industries, February 1973
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
YEMEN'S BANKING SECTOR AND
YEMEN BANK FOR REOONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Yemen's Commercial Banks
1.        The practice of modern banking in Yemen dates back to only 1962
when the first banking institution, the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (YBRD), was established as a public sector organization, with
a minority private shareholding (49%). YBRD acted as both, an independent
commercial bank and as the agent for the Government's monetary and develop-
ment policy. The responsibility for monetary policy passed on to the Central
Bank when it was created in July 1971, still leaving YBRD in the dual role
of a commercial and a development bank. Commercial banking operations in
Yemen are controlled by the Banking Law of 1972 which covers licensing and
regulating of banking operations. It stipulates capital, reserve and liquid-
ity requirements and procedures for accounting, auditing, and supervision.
2.        During 1971 and 1972, five foreign commercial banks obtained
licenses to establish branches in Yemen bringing Yemen's commercial banking
sector to six banks (including YBRD as the only Yemeni bank). YBRD has
branches at all of Yemen's main towns. The foreign banks have branches at
the following locations:
Name of Bank                   Country of Head Office    Branches at
1. Habib Bank Ltd.                      Pakistan             Hodeida
2. British Bank of the Middle East      United Kingdom       Hodeida , Taiz
3. Arab Bank                            Jordan               Hodeida, Sana'a
4. United Bank                          Pakistan             Sana'a
5. Banque de l'Indochine                France               Hodeida, Taiz 1/
The Government now wants to hold back on granting further licenses and first
to observe the development that will take place after five foreign banks
have started operations in the country.
1/  Establishment expected soon.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Credit Volume and Liquidity
3.        The consolidated balance sheet of all commercial banks covering
1968 to 1972 is shown in Table (i). Yemen's banks so far have practically
not made long-term loans, but only short-term advances for trade and con-
struction. Only YBRD in its dual role as commercial and development bank
has provided long-term funds to certain enterprises in the form of equity
participations. Private investors have generally used suppliers' credits
to finance their machinery imports. Short-term advances to Yemeni customers
(excluding Government) increased rapidly from about YR 23 million in 1969 to
YR 70 million in 1971 and YR 105 million in 1972, or at an average annual
rate of 66%. As of December 31, 1972 these advances were made for the fol-
lowing purposes:
Purpose of Advance                                   Amount
in YR 1,000    in Z of Grand Total
A. Short-term Advances
Export
- Cotton /1                               17,841              17.0
- Coffee                                    224                0.2
- Hides and Skins                          1,566               1.5
- Rock Salt                               2,227                2.1
21,858              20.9
Import and Trade in Imported Goods       46,121               44.0
Trade in Locally Manufactured Goods          775               0.7
Industry
- Import of Machinery & Equipment         5,160                4.9
- Discount of Receivables                 2,693                2.6
7,853               7.5
Personal and Professional                 5,912                5.6
Other /2                                 22,220               21.2
104,739             100.0
B. Long-term Advances                              35               0
Grand Total                   104,77               100%
/1   Includes financing of cotton cultivation and purchases by local fac-
tories, but bulk is for financing of exports.
/2   Includes building contractors, transport enterprises, hotels and ser-
,vice business in general, other than merchants and manufacturers,



ANNEX 2
Page 3
4.        In spite of the fast expansion of the credit volume, liquidity of
the commercial banks has continued to be high as deposits from Yemenis other
than the Government increased at an even faster rate than advances, namely,
from YR 27.6 million in 1969 to YR 139.5 million in 1972 or at an average
annual rate of 71.6%. This rapid increase in deposits is explained by the
end of the civil war (1970) and the corresponding increase of confidence in
the stability of the banking sector and the currency. The most important
source for increased deposits were remittances from Yemenis working outside
the country, primarily in the Arabian Gulf area. Yemen's balance of payments
estimates (Table 4) show that remittances and other invisible receipts were
US$42.0 million in 1969 and more than doubled to US$96.1 million in 1972, an
average annual increase of 31.8%. Most of these remittances went immediately
into consumption, reflected in a sharp increase of commodity imports, since
the domestic supply of foodstuffs is insufficient and domestically manufac-
tured goods are practically not available. In addition, about nearly two-
thirds of commercial bank advances were for imports. Imports increased
parallel to remittances from US$65.6 million in 1969 to US$117.9 million in
1972, or on an average by 21.5% a year. Correspondingly, proper savings and
time deposits with the banking sector have remained at a relatively low
level, even though they too increased markedly in relation to their very low
starting base in 1969 (Table i). "Earmarked deposits", i.e., deposits for
letters of credit opened for imports increased from YR 10 million in 1969
to YR 53 million in 1972. The liquidity of the commercial banks, therefore,
depends on a continuous inflow of remittances from abroad. If they should
decline or even discontinue, the present deficit of about US$110 million in
Yemen's trade balance would quickly drain the present apparent surplus liquid-
ity from the commercial banking sector.
The Structure of the Interest Rates
5.        The trend of interest rates has been upwards since 1964.  The rate
for commercial advances for 6 to 12 months increased from 7% p.a. in 1964 to
9% p.a. in 1972, and the rate for personal loans from 10% to 11%. An inter-
est rate for long-term lending does not exist. The structure of interest
rates for a number of selected dates since 1964 is shown in Table 8.
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
6.        YBRD still has the by far largest share of all commercial banks in
total advances to Yemeni customers. YBRD's advances were YR 63.4 million
(90.6% of total) in 1971 and YR 87.9 million (83.9%) in 1972. The detailed
breakdown of YBRD's lending to Yemeni customers was:



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Purpose of Advance                                  Amount (YR 1,000)
1971         1972
Export
- Cotton                                           7,932 /1    17,841 /1
- Hides and Skins                                    --            346
- Rock Salt                                        2,153         2,227
Sub-total          10,085       20,414
Import and Trade in Imported Goods                30,868        33,670
Industry                                           2,752         4,491
Personal and Professional                          6,000         3,861
Other (building contractors, hotels,
power companies, etc.)                          13,736        25,461
Grand Total       63,441        87,897
/1   Until 1972, YBRD alone financed the cotton crop.  Beginning with 1973,
it will be financed by a consortium of all banks with YBRD providing
YR 15.0 million and the foreign commercial banks in Yemen YR 10.0
million.
7.        As of March 1973, YBRD was holding participations in ten public
sector enterprises:
YBRD's      YBRD's Share of Total  Dividend Paid
Name of Company          Participation  Capital Stock (in X )    for 1971
(in YR 1,000)                           (in YR 1,000)
(1) Yemen Petroleum Co.         5,100.0             51                   435.9
(2) Sana'a Power Co.            2,250.0             15                   375.0
(3) Hodeidah Power Co.          2,000.0            100                     _
(4) National Tobacco &
Matches Co.                 1,250.0             25
(5) Yemen Drug Co.                735.0             35                   121.5
(6) Yemen Printing &
Publication Co.               600.0             30                     -
(7) General Cotton Co.            600.0             30                    78.2
(8) Taiz Power Co.                400.0             19                     -
(9) Mocha Agriculture Co.         270.5             51                     -
(10)Yemen Foreign Trade Co.       201.3             35                    26.3
Total           13,406.8                                1,036.9



ANNEX 2
Page 5
The ten enterprises are operating with varying success. Some of them are
facing management difficulties, due to the extreme shortage of qualified
personnel. For 1971, only the trading companies (Yemen Petroleum Co., Yemen
Drug Co., General Cotton Co., Yemen Foreign Trade Co.) and Sana'a Power Co.
have paid dividends. YBRD's investment in some of these companies (e.g.
Mocha Agriculture Co.) must be seen in light of its role as the Government's
development bank.
8.        YBRD's audited income statmeents for the years 1968 to 1972 are
shown in Table (ii). Profits have been constantly increasing, but were ex-
ceptionally high in 1970, the first year after the end of the civil war.
YBRD has been able to pay 20% dividend and also to accumulate strong reserves.
Audited balance sheets for December 31, 1968 to 1972 are shown in Table (iii).
Until mid-1971, YBRD held a monopoly position in Yemen, and it is, therefore,
difficult to make a judgment on YBRD's general performance. Of course, YBRD's
management admits that it is facing difficulties resulting form the shortage
of qualified personnel. Yemeni merchants, however, seem generally satisfied
with the performance of YBRD, and the bank's standing abroad appears to be
good.
9.        YBRD's Board of Directors consists of 11 members, six of whom repre-
sent the Government and are appointed by the Minister of Economy. Five mem-
bers are elected by the private shareholders. The Chairman of the Board since
June 1970 is Mr. Ali Lotf Al-Thowr. He was educated at Cairo University and
held various high positions in YBRD, the public sector and the Government,
among which were Deputy Chairman of the National Assembly and Minister of
Finance. He is a Government appointee on the Board of Directors. The General
Manager of YBRD, Mr. Yahya Abdulla Al-Dailamy, also a Government appointed
Board member, received his education from Dublin University in Ireland. He
has been General Manager since June 1970, prior to which he held various posi-
tions in the Government, public sector and YBRD.
10.       YBRD has its head office and main branch in Sana'a.  Branches and
offices are at seven other towns, including Hodeida, Taiz, Ibb and Turba.
YBRD has a total staff of 600, of whom 135 work in the head office. The
organization of the head office, including a brief description of the main
functions of the various departments is shown in Chart 1, attached to this
Annex. Of special interest for the industrial estate project are the Commit-
tee for General Policy, Investments and Facilities, and the Investment Depart-
ment. The Chairman and the General Manager can approve credit facilities up
to a certain ceiling. Loan requests that go beyond that amount have to be
presented to the Committee which is formed by members of the Board and which
makes a recommendation for the final approval by the full Board.
11.       YBRD's Investment Department appraises and supervises the enter-
prises in which YBRD holds or proposes to acquire a participation. Its
director, since January 1970, is Mr. Akil Abdulla Al-Sakkaf, a graduate of
Cairo University and Austin College in Texas (USA). Before joining YBRD he
was General Manager and then Under-Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
Today he is Assistant General Manager of YBRD and in charge of the Investment
Department. Deputy Director of the department is Mr. Jubari, a graduate from
East Germany. The total staff of the Investment Department are 5 profession-
als, and 2 general services staff.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Future Development of Yemen's Banking Sector and YBRD
12.       The Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, in 1971, prepared a
study of the banking sector in Yemen and its future development. Among its
recommendations was that in the future YBRD should concentrate on commercial
banking activities while two separate development banks should be formed, one
for lending to the agricultural sector and one for lending to industry. A
first step towards the formation of an institution specializing in lending to
agriculture was taken under the agricultural development project for the
Tihama, Yemen's coastal plain at the Red Sea. Under that project, which is
in large part financed by the Association, a new department will be created
within the Central Bank to administer an Agricultural Credit Fund which will
initially serve only the credit needs of the Tihama Development Project but
might be transformed into a national agricultural credit institution in the
future. The Government in principle intends to create eventually also a bank
that will specialize in long-term lending to industry, but has decided that
YBRD should continue to be responsible for such lending until the time when
it has reached a level that justifies establishment of a separate Industrial
Development Bank. At that time, YBRD's Investment Department would serve as
the nucleus for the new bank, which might then also become the vehicle for
future DFC projects in Yemen.
13.       The five foreign banks that opened branches in Yemen during 1971/72
now hold about 20% of the total advances to Yemeni customers, and YBRD the re-
maining 80%. This is the result of a normal process correcting YBRD's pre-
vious monopoly position, and this process can be expected to continue for some
time as the foreign banks consolidate their positions. Probably, the foreign
banks have a certain advantage over YBRD in the foreign banking business be-
cause of their association with a head office abroad, but YBRD clearly has
an advantage because of its longer experience of operating in Yemen and its
intimate knowledge of the business community. Also, YBRD is represented at
all of Yemen's major towns and most of the medium sized towns. This should
ensure that YBRD will under all circumstances remain Yemen's dominating com-
mercial bank and keep at least 50% of the total credit volume.
14.       With its present liquidity and balances of foreign exchange, YBRD
should have no difficulty to provide the US$600,000 equivalent for the credit
facility. Only in a situation of political instability that would result in
capital flight and a cessation of remittances from Yemenis working abroad,
YBRD might not be able to make its contribution. The chance that this will
happen is currently judged to be small. In any case, in such a situation of
political instability the incentive to invest in industry would also be small
and correspondingly the demand for the credit facility under the industrial
estate project.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



ANNEX 2
Table (i:
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
1/
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET OF O1OvMERCIAL BANKS
(December 31, YR 1,000)
June
1968    1969    1970    1971     1971      1972
Cash on hand                             2,830  9,924    16,878  11,230   24,712    30,627
Foreign assets                           8 784  23 025   42,758  51,086   34,292    62,269
Notes and gold on hand                    807 ?   1,24     932   ,387      ,386     2,38
Balances with banks abroad              6,448  19,931   36,673  45,528   32,793    57,701
Other claims on non-residents           1,529   1,849    5,153     171      113     2,184
Advances to Government                  22,278  28,383   37,200  39,007   20,873    16,847
Advances to Yemeni customers            17,261  22 917   36,678  55,127   70 012   104,774
of which: Public enterprises           8,246  10,326   14,697  20,64    20,05     30,696
Assets  = Liabilities               51.153  84,249  1        1       149,889   217
Demand deposits                          8 798  12 303  21 426   8.65o   44 216    68 016
of which: Public enterprises           4;451   551      7,635   8,78    1779   '10,5
Time and savings deposits               7?342  15,341   23,132  36 120   31,953    71 523
Time deposits                            490     579        03,276    3,006        g,8ol
Savings deposits                         132     172      513   3,188    3,056     5,564
Earmarked deposits                     5,433  10,091   15,648  23,108   22,507    52,774
Resident deposits in foreign
currency                    1,287   4,499    6,111   6,548    3,38b     3,384
Foreign liabilities                     10 698  13 454   28 304  18 955   25 173    20,113
Balances due to banks abroad           7,37b  5,930   12T,4    4,482    2,32       2,977
Non-resident deposits in rials         1,958   4,855    5,710    --      3,747     8,389
Non-resident deposits in foreign
currency           1,362   2,619   10,110  14,473   18,900     8,747
Government deposits                      6,137   7,913   24,485  28,382    5,406    11,184
Capital and reserves                     7,660  10,866   11,854  32,954   35,692    38,279
Other items (net)                       10,518  24,372   24,313   1,389    7,449     5,402
1/ Through June 1971, data refer to the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was
the only commercial bank operating in Yemen.  Since September 1971, five foreign banks were li-
censed to operate in Yemen. 1972 data are a consolidation of all commercial banks. Data in
this table only reflect major accounts and are not necessarily comparable to data in YBRD's
annual balance sheets (Table iii) due to difference in grouping of accounts and netting out of
certain items in the consolidated balance sheet.
Source: Based on data provided by Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Central
Bank of Yemen.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
Y-aiEN BANK FOR RECONSTHUCTIOI! Ai) DEVELOPINMT
&UIMPOITADLS  ACCOUNTS (1968-1972)
(Yr 1, 000)
1968      1969      1970       1971      1972
Total Income                          6,138     6,437    114,796    13,152    16,266
General Expenses                  885      1,657     2,432     4,340      7,497
Provisions                      3,455      2,775     2,700     4,163      5,,400
Depreciation                       68         81       109        183       321
Net Profit                            1,731     1,924      9,556     4,466     3,048
Source:   Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Deve,opment
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973                                                                                  - M



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
YEMEN BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AUDITED BALANCE SHEETS (1968 to 1972)
(December 31, YR 1,000)
ASSETS                                                               1968                1969               1970                1971                1972
Cash and balances with banks                                       12,452             34,121              59,862               73,510            86,985
Advances to customers                                              21,450              38,685             51,832               63,442            8V,897
Advances to Government                                       )     25,409              13,613             26,557                  -               16,847
Participations                                               )                         4,452               6,430                9,178            13,509
Net fixed assets                                                    1,223               1,529              2,018                4,324             10,737
TOTAL ASSETS = TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY                        60,534              92,400            146,699              150,455           215,975
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Due to banks                                                        8,082               1,284              9,153                3,680
Demand, savings and time deposits by customers                     18,253              28,861             44,934               70,119   )       147,223
Other Accounts                                                     13,289              30,063             24,014               18,262   )
Deposits for L/Cs                                                   5,432              10,091             15,648               21,580            26,243
Deposits by government departments                                    -                   -               20,491                   74                 74
Provisions                                                          5,572               8,543              9,852               11,535             16,205
Paid-up capital                                                     6,195               9,178              9,873               10,000             10,000
Statutory reserve                                                   1,015               1,188              1,380                2,336   )         13,170
Other reserves                                                        950               1,250              1,798                8,398
Profit (including profit carried forward)                           1,745               1,942              9,556                4,470              3,060
Accounts outside balance sheet:
Endorsement liability of documents for collection, letter
of guarantee, letters of credit                                   10,172              17,075             17,692              118,201            157,849
Long-term Government loans                                          22,455              24,791             27,359                 -
Source: Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973
I- N
Fh 






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Industrial Estate Project
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Organization Chart for Head Office, Sanaa
|up s   bnChaurman rn                                   Commnitteaes ofathe 
Assistant to the Cara
General /lanager|
Assistant to the       |
l  General Manager      l
Office of the                      Control and inspection              I     CenrlAcuisForeign Relations                                                        Administration)                           I nvestmernt
Legal Advisor                      Department                                          nt                             Department                                Department                                Department
Supervises branches                     tep             wco ltwth                 Keeps account with                      Initernal adminfsta-                  Appraises and supervises
and credit tacilities                  branchsalnudcentral                       bankUs and correspon-                    tion of YBRD                          companies in which YBRD
extended by branches                   accounts and prepares                     dentsabroad                                                                    holds or proposes to
to YBRD's clients                      annual report                                                                                                            acquire a participation
World Bank-811 t (R)






ANNEX 3
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
SITE SELECTION
1.        During the preparation of the industrial estate project, the Govern-
ment proposed five different, possible sites around Sana'a, based on general
considerations about their suitability and the availability of government-
owned land. Only two of the five sites were located inside areas reserved
for industrial settlement under the Sana'a master plan that was prepared with
UNDP assistance in 1972. Nevertheless, each of the five sites was examined
in detail and all available information taken into consideration, such as
land title, present land use and various physical factors. The final choice
fell on a site located in the western outskirts of Sana'a and in the center
of the largest one of the areas designated by the master plan for industry.
*2.       The selected site is located on the road leading into Sana'a from
Hodeida (Map, IBRD 1072OR). This will be the main traffic route for the
industrial estate, since most materials will have to be brought in from the
port of Hodeida. Through a ring road around Sana'a that will eventually be
completed, traffic from the estate will reach the roads to Taiz (south) and
Saadah (north) without entering Sana'a. This good accessibility was one of
the main reasons why the area was reserved for industrial settlement in the
Sana'a master plan. However, equally important is the fact that the area
has already a certain "industrial" character through the presence of car
repairshops further up the road, a fuel storage area of Yemen Petroleum Co.,
a tiles factory, and a factory for casting and machining of parts for water
pumps. The residential areas of Sana'a are spreading primarily south- and
eastwards, and will thus not be affected by the industrial site in the
western outskirts. The normal wind direction is north or south, also making
a site west of the city suitable. A certain difficulty is connected with
the fact that most of the workers for the industrial estate will come from
the old town of Sana'a which is about 2,000 - 3,000 m east of the selected
site. In this respect, the selected site was inferior to two of the other
sites proposed by the Government (between 1,000 m and 2,000 m distance),
but these sites were inferior to the selected site on practically all other
counts. In any case, the distance of the site from the main population
center was not considered too far for people who are used to walk daily much
longer distances, for instance to reach their fields.
3.        The site has an area of 130,000 m2 (about 340 X 385 m).  A former
military camp, now vacated, forms about two thirds of the site. Half of the
remaining one third is unused government land, belonging to the religious
organization Awkaf, and the rest, until recently, belonged to private persons.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
They have been compensated with government land nearby, and the site is now
held by the Government free of all claims. The soil of the site is stony,
in parts covered with loose gravel, with good bearing capacity. The water-
table is about 40 m below ground level. The site has a natural gradient of
about 1% from northwest to southeast, just sufficient to facilitate surface
water drainage and sewerage. A preliminary site plan is shown in Annex 4.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



ANNEX 4
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
PRELIMINARY DESIGNS AND COSTING OF CIVIL WORKS
A.   General
1.        The cost of site development and standard factory buildings, by
far the major cost categories, were assessed in detail in the field in August,
1973 by Mr. I. Serageldin, an architect by training, of the EMENA Region.
He had previously been to Yemen in December, 1972, as architect on an educa-
tion project appraisal mission. During his stays in Yemen he made a broad
based survey of the construction sector and unit costs through visits to
factories and construction sites and interviews of factory managers, con-
tractors and government officials in CPO, the Miinistry of Public Works, and
the Highway Authority. In addition, as a check against these findings,
recent bid documents were analyzed, on the new CPO office building (June,
1973) and the new Manpower Institute of the Ministry of Health (August, 1973).
The resulting cost estimates, therefore, are judged to be as reliable as any
cost estimate in Yemen could be. The intensity of the investigations made
in the field plus the contingencies included in the cost estimates make it
unlikely that actual project costs will surpass the estimates used in this
report.
B.   Site Development
Preliminary Design
2.        The preliminary site plan is shown in Fig. 1.   After testing various
alternatives it was found that differences in cost would be small (.! 10%).
The basic concept of the proposed site plan is to provide a dual system of
roads: primary roads (asphalted) will service the offices or "frontage"
of the buildings, and service roads (unpaved) will lead to the yards at the
back of the buildings.  A main road will bisect the site from north to south
providing the major access point to the estate from the Hodeida-Sana'a
road.  There will be a small set back of five meters from the Hodeida-Sana'a
road to provide for a drainage ditch which will be culverted under the main
road. At the entrance point will be the administrative building of the In-
dustrial Estate Development Authority. At the southern end of the estate
will be a second entrance from the arterial road that will be built along-
side the estate. At the center of the site, communal buildings will be pro-
vided which will include the water tower and electric facilities, as well
as future special workshops. At both eastern and western extremeties of
the site, strips of land of together 30,000 m2 will be provided for inde-
pendent development. There will be 28 plots of 50 m x 50 m (2,500 m2) each
for the standard factory buildings. The total land use pattern will be:



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Area (m2)
Infrastructure, administration
center, communal buildings             30,000
Standard factory buildings                70,000
Independent development                    30,000
Total          13O-LOOO
Costing of Site Development
3.        As a result of the field investigations, a list of unit costs was
developed. It is shown in Table Ci). These unit costs were then used to
cost out various design alternatives. The detailed cost estimates for the
selected preliminary site plan are shown in Table (ii).
C.   Standard Factory Buildings
Preliminary Design
4.        The preliminary design for the standard factory building is shown
in Fig._2. It will measure 30 m x 40 m for a total covered space of 1,200 m2.
Standing on a lot of 50 m x 50 m, the building will be set back from the road
along frontage of the lot by 5 m. In the rear 15 m of yard space can be used.
5.        The building will have external masonry load-bearing walls at the
perimeter. Inside, two rows of reinforced concrete piers (spaced ten meters
span, five meters module) will be supporting a series of wooden parallel
trusses. These trusses would be a frame for fixed skylights as well as
bearing elements. They would all be facing north. Around the building there
will be windows (about one by two meters) that will open for ventilation
purposes. These windows will be spaced about one every bay. The internal
lighting will be provided by fluorescent lights attached to the bottom of
the trusses. Partitioning will be of brick (10 centimeters thick) covered
with gypsum. Office space floors will be tiled, production area and storage
space will have only a concrete flooring. Wide wooden doors would be pro-
vided on both frontage and rear yards, Internal subdivision of the buildings
is extremely flexible, allowing for a wide variety of internal arrangements.
The distribution of the space for closed storage, offices and production
area, can easily be tailored to each enterprise.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
Costing of Standard Factory Buildings
6.        Using the table of unit costs, the cost per square meter of
standard factory building were calculated as follows (detailed computations
are in Table (iii):
Unit cost per m2          YR  229.2
+ 10% wastage                  22.9
YR 252.1
- say  YR  255.0 (US$56.7/m2)
of which 46.6%, say 47% is foreign exchange cost.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
ANNEX 4
INDUSTRIAL  ESTATE PROJECT                      Table (i)
UNIT PRICES FOR CONSTRUCTION IN SANA'A
(August 3$73)           --
Item                 Unit  YR               Item               Unit YR
Earthwork
Excavation                m3   10       Electrical(incl.all con-
nections)
Infill                   m3    8        -points(single phase)      u.   25
-   it (three   1"  )    ui   60
Foundations                               -fluorescent light         u. 120
Stone boulders(lower)    m    55        -incandescent light        u.   80
Stone boulders(upper)   m3  100         -control panel             u. 2000
-power control panel      u. 5000
Concrete
Reinforced               m   600        Sanitarv(incl.all connections)
Ordinary                 m   150        -toilet(oriental)          u. 450
-washbasin                u.  280
Masonry                                   -urinal                    u.  280
Stone(0.4 m thick)       m2  140
Brick(incl.window arches)m3  290        Site Work
PartitionssBrick(10 cm)  a2   25        -leveIling and clearance  m2  1.0
it    :Hollow blocks  2            -fence 2 a high wire mesh
(20 cm)      a    30           with masonry base      m   120
-fence 2 m high(no base)  m2   65
Roofing                                   -surface drainage(where   a2  0.65
Over RC slab(incl.tiles) m2   45        -culverts(24nO)   needed) m   240
Traditional              m2   65
Corrugated sheets(incl.   2    5        -tarmac                     24 )
purlins              m              -gravel                    M2 (108l)
(12
FinishiLng                                Utilities
Ties  or flooring        m2   35        -inspection chamber(4)   u. 150
Gripsum Plaster(walls)   a2   10        -gufl.ey tap               U. 100
-asbestos cement pipes
Windows and doors                              ($6")                 m    15
(from Health Ministry id:)2             -septic tank               u. 2500
all types              a   150        -soaking pit(3 4n,5.Qm
Alternatively:  by unit                   deep,incl.brick liMpig) u. 7000
-water tank complete"J   u. 78,000
Utilities                                 -connections to bldg.an 6,
Street lights            u.  350          internal distribution'-   4.000
Cables                   m    30                       (8)
Telephone(coaplete)      u. 500         Wooden Trusses           Span in
Electric transf.400 KNA u. 15000                                   Meters    YR
Well and pump             u. 30000      King Post                    8       300
Water suMy pipes(distri-                                             8       450
bution     (7)         a      40                                  10      500
Sewer network            o      45                                  12      600
cont'd



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                        ANNEX i
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT                 Table (i}, Page 2
(8)                Span in
Wooden Trusses                   meters       YR
(all prices per Unit)
- Parallel                         5        350
8        500
10        600
12        700
- Inverted V                       8        500
10        600
12        700
Notes:
(1) if built by Highway Authority
(2)  if built by contractors
(3) if built by contractors. May go as high as 15 YIR/2 if edging is included.
(4) with R.C. (not cast iron) cover
(5) Based on R.C. structure, 62.5 m3 capacity (5 m x 5 m x 2.5 m), with bottom
of tank 17 m above ground level
(6) Prorated from the Ministry of Health (manpower institute) Bid prices on the
basis of area covered and estimated pipe distances.
(7) Can be used as an alternative to the prorated prices.
(8)  Steel Trusses may prove more economical for large spans (15-20 m and above).
The Mohamed Seif Thabet Company recommended that they be computed on the basis
of 2500 Th/ton.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973



TRIWSlliIAL 005E12S 10PADA
vft or Rrfokfifi
I T E                       Aaet,cO                                c4t0.1l coat       Pha n lbs                  Jordm 
Iecl  T  E c   1 M300 A-t               unt    Yll/Unit           *           XI                       Toetl Cost (VR)     S        nI            11 I  p A I
G~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ..                                                        .                                 _I 
Cl-I.-  ..d I.-Ill.g  130,509   .2  1  130,509                                  130,509         ~~~~~~~30  39,1.53
-ern                                1,471               120            16 dOt9                                  176,5520          20     35, 304      kire_h0  with stel ban
I'l, ln t. (teel)                       I      u     3,000               3,000                                    3,000           45      1,350
SUc md gt- (424') >                     I11          2,SOO                                     2 SOO              2,500        ' 45       1,125
Culv hrt    oi24 .l15                      a       240               3,600                                    5      600r  a                                c   eu1 44  Un   " n   tr"e   road
Sub-Tottl                              ,                                    yifSll9          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25  7ti32
M0i-r Utilties.
Electric TractrOcers                    2      u2   15,000              30,000                                    0,000           85     25,S00      400 SVA each
1cciding for TiAeeforac-               20      -       400               8,000                                    8,000           47      5,760
Ue11 *nd poap                           I      a    30,000              70,00d                                   50,000           30      9,000
W Ster ttk                              I      u    75,000              78.000                                   78               Lo     It OO             strLctut 62.5 { cpcity
Sdb-Trial                                                  |                                                12rii1            53     ffeI 0         at t o 17   6sbs gd   caai
P-ved           I                   6,575       2        18            118,350
11                  4,450      a         1,100
S.b-T.t4l                      17,025      '2       i                                     0,
Subp-  Tol6oo                                 2       18                                   1800               306,450           30    9n,935        Based oighwgb Autbority P,icea
IJepaved        1                   1,600       2        10             16,000
II                  4,4000     62 00                                40,00
1,600       24 106,00
SS b-Tttr1                     7,200       s        10                                                       72,000           25     18,000      Iba4d rn R1heo  Aetbority Price.
St-et Lights8
Ijeite          1                      21      u       350               7,350
12                     17      a        550                          59
III              ~~~     ~~22  cc  350                                    7,700
S.b-7oicl                          60      v       350                                             |         2I,000          5       11,550      Inclc.udas cmuti   to cabls
Cables          I                     535                30       |    16,O0S
*5430                                   30                         12,900
fII                   140       a         30        I16,20
S.b-T.t.1                      ISOS        u        304510                                                                   S       2453        tcu        drDn    Xlai
WMte- dittrabutoin                       ,53020 is                                                                                            24,833 Ilu ded, eudergoud iatallaticu
I                    440      *         40             17,600
I                    480      a         40                         19,200
III                    330                40                                   1,200
Sub-Tot.1                       1,250      a        40                                                       50,000           55     27,500
I                    250      a         40             10,000
TI                    400      a         40                         16,000
I'I                    300       a        40                                   12,000
Sub-Total                         900      a        40         1                                             38,000           45     17,100      lsciud e aejfr ditcharW  ebicb
05cc,ar2e                                                   45is iacluded in lvallics csts
Pipr-            I                    250      af        42        i    11,2500
1I                    400      a         42                         18,000
III                    300                4 45                                 15,SOO
S0b-Teit1                         950      a        45                                                       42,750           36     15,390
Icspe-ticn      I                      10      c       10                1 I,S 0
Ch_b..r       It                      16      ,       ISo                           2,400
1I1                     12                1s0                                  I.S00   I
Sepic  Toteh                       5 18          9So                                                          5 ,700          40      2,560      Ceucott  OM  cast ire) coavr
septi, Tack    It                       I            9,SOO               9,500
cud  .c.kin2   I                       1      u      9,500S       j                 9,250
Pic         lti                        I      tc    9,500                                     9,500
El-tric ;nl t0lcc                                  c 3 a  9,500                                                       28,500          47      13,395      septic tlk    2,*500 TR s ad
R1                    440      a         30             13,200                                                                        iuclcdieg -birk IO1u) at
nI                    480                30                         14,400                                                            7,000 YR.
II                    330      a         3                                     9.900
Sub T.t.1                        1250               'o 5037,500                                                               60     22,500
Te.ebho- Icntallaticu
I                     50      cc       500              25.000
II                      34      a       SO0                         17,000
111                                      S oo 500                               12.500
SlTt DEV     V         Tol               109       c       500                                                       54,500           so     43,600
lcdc.striclPrc:ctsoeparta.ct                               ~~~~~~~~~~705.429    235.450   52.2100  1.153,679                 4,o
Indu.tvial Pr.1o3t. Dn tn3t
Xeovnb- 13, 1973



A



kli!,EX 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                                      Table (iii)
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
COST OF STANDARD FACTORY BUILDING
(Prices of August, 1973)                    Total Costs
of which
Total   foreign exchange
I t  e m                             Amount   Unit   YR/unit    YR         %         YR
1.0 Foundations:
1.1  excavations (incl. 10 m3            122      m3       10     1220        0
for piers)
1.2  stone boulders                       84      m3      100     8400        0        -
1 .3  RC for piers                         0.85   m3      600      510       71 .5    365
1.4  OC for piers                          5.6    m3      150      840       68       571
1.5  Infill (incl. 2.5 m3 for piers)    30.5    m3          8      244        0        -
2.0 Walls & Supports & Floor:
2.1  Outside Bearing Masonry             511      m2      140    71540        0        -
2.2  Inside Masonry partitions           532      m2       25    13300        0        -
2.3  14 RC piers (0.3 x 0.3 x 3.5)         4.41   m3      600     2646       71.5    1892
2.4  Floor tiles for offices             150      m2       35     6750       50      3375
2.5  Flooring (15 cm OC)                 180      m3      150    27000       68     18360
2.6  Gypsum (inside partitions)         1064       2       10    10640        0        -
3.0 Roofing:
3.1  24 Trusses (10 x 1.5 m)              24    Unit      600    14400       70     10080
3.2 Corrugated Sheets
(including purlins)              1350      m2       15    20250       85      17213
3.3  Skylights (on trusses)              360      m2      150    54000       80     43200
3.4  Gutters                             210      m        15     3150       85      2678
4.0 Doors & Windows:
4.1  30 Windows (1 x 2 m)              ) 112      m2      150    16800       80     13440
4.2 10 doors (2 x 2m) + 6 doors(1x2))
5.0 Electricity & Plumbing:
5.1  50 Electric points                   50     unit      60     3000       85     2550
5.2  42 Fluorescent lights                42     unit    120      5040       80     4032
5.3   1 Control box                        1     unit   2000      2000       80     1600
5.4   1 Power control Box                  1     unit   5000      5000       80     4000
5.5  Plumbing                             -       -      2800     2800       75     2100
5.6  1/2 of washroom unit*                -       -      5500     5500       50     2750
Total Cost                        275030       46.6  128)206
YMVm2                                229.2     46.6   106.8
$/m2                               50.9
* One washroom unit will be provided for every two factory buildings.
Industrial Projects Department
November 13, 1973






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
PRELiMINARY SITE PLAN
S- TO HODEIDA          EXISTING ROAD   ADMINISTRATION             TO SANA'A--
CENTER
PHASE I
SErYER PHASE I
'M             i.>                                            VACANT SITES
FOR RENT|
VACANT SITES                                                                   FOR  NT
FOR RENT
MIFf!)   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PHASE II
VWASH ROOM,
UITS
SEINER,PHASE 11
IPHASE III
PROJECID ARTERIAL ROAD
0            50           100          150
SCALEIMETERS)
PAVED ROADS   r-  UNPAVED ROADS
R TANDARD FACTORY BUILDINGS                                                                 '.d6-80(R
STANDARD FACTORY BUILDINGS PHASE I



I



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
PRELIMINARY DESIGN OF STANDARD FACTORY BUILDING
Im  cnm   m  mom ] m
T 7'~~~~~~7
30m
PRODUCTION AREA       PRODUCTION AREA         PRODUCTION AREA
.OFFICE                                                        | OFFICE
^       ~~~STORAGE                    STORAGE        r
| '                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40m -
0~~~~~~~~~~01
- SHOWING ONE OF MANY POSSIBLE
Meters                               SPACE DISTRIBUTIONS
World Bank- 809S






ANNEX 5
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE PROJECT
THE CREDIT FACILITY
1.        Individual investments by enterprises on the estate are expected
to vary widely, but have been assumed to average US$130,000, based on
experience with small-scale industry elsewhere and on expectations regarding
the kind of industry to settle on the estate.
Average Investment in Fixed
and Working Capital by Enterprises on the
Industrial Estate
YR      US$ Equivalent
(i)  Foreign exchange cost of
machinery and equipment 1/        360,000       80,000
(ii)  Local cost of machinery and
equipment (local transport,
furniture, etc.)                   30,000        6,667
(iii)  Working Capital                   195,000        43,333
585,000      130,000
2.        The proposed credit facility will finance up to 80% of the foreign
exchange cost of machinery and equipment, that is on an average YR 288,000
(US$64,000). It has been assumed that not all enterprises will make full use
of the credit facility, particularly those enterprises that move onto the
estate from their present quarters and that possess already some equipment.
The total required volume of the credit facility for the 22 enterprises that
are expected to settle on the estate during Phase I, has, therefore, been
estimated at US$1.2 million, of which IDA and YBRD will each contribute one
half.
3.        YBRD will accept loan applications only if the respective project
has been recommended by IEDA. Investors will be expected to finance from
their own funds at least 20% to 30% of the total project cost. This would be
used to pay for the 20% or more of the foreign exchange cost not financed
from the credit facility, any local cost, and some working capital. Addi-
tional working capital, if necessary, could be financed through credits from
1/   Including foreign exchange cost of on-the-job training by equipment
supplier (if any).



ANNEX 5
Page 2
any of Yemen's commercial banks. \YBRD will assess the creditworthiness of
the investor, including his ability to assure his equity contribution and
appropriate securities for the credits needed.  Prior to final approval of a
loan application by YBRD, the investor will have to deposit with YBRD the 20%
or more of the CIF cost of machinery and equipment not covered by the credit
facility. IEDA and the investor will then proceed with the procurement.
4.        Short-term commercial advances now cost 9% interest per annum
(Table 6). The interest charged on loans from the credit facility will be
equivalent to the prevailing rate for short-term advances plus an appropriate
margin to account for medium or long maturity. The interest rate will at all
times be acceptable to the Association. The repayment terms of the loans
(including the provision of a period of grace) will be determined by YBRD in
consultation with IEDA and in accordance with the financial requirements of
the respective projects. In no case will maturities exceed the expected life
of the assets financed. The foreign exchange risk will be born by the
Government.
5.        IDA will disburse its funds pari passu with YBRD against 50% of the
credits made to estate enterprises. YBRD will pay the Government an interest
rate on the IDA funds that is not more than three percentage points below the
weighted average of the interest charged by YBRD on the loans to the estate
enterprises, but not less than 7% p.a., whichever is higher. The repayment
from YBRD to the Government will be determined each year as 50% of the re-
payments by the estate enterprises to YBRD. The Government will guarantee
75% of the outstanding balance of each loan, i.e., in case of a loss through
bad debt, YBRD will bear one fourth of that loss. The interest span received
by YBRD should be sufficient to cover YBRD's administrative expenses, includ-
ing the local currency cost of the foreign banking expert, plus the provision
to cover 25% of any bad debts.
6.        A tentative cash flow projection for the credit facility has been
prepared and, together with the main assumptions, is shown in Table (i).
The assumptions made on the average terms of the credits are only exemplary.
The actual cash flow of the credit facility will, of course, depend on what
kind of enterprises will come onto the estate in the early years and what
their credit requirements will be. For the tentative cash flow projection
it has been assumed that the average credit will be made for 7 years, in-
cluding 1-1/2 years of grace. Interest during grace period has not been
capitalized. The projection shows that, under the assumptions made, ThRD
should still break even on the credit facility even if bad debts went as
high as 20%.
Industrial Projects Department
January 4, 1974



IBRD 10720R
JANUARY 1974
a   /                   \R                                                            YEMEN  ARAB REPUBLIC
yr ( RAWODA   / INDUSTRIAL ESTATE
PROJECT
a'                   \                         4  3           f     ! -~~~~industrial Zone
I-"   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_jirn Sona's Msste, Plan
),                                                                L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.J  ~~~~~~~~~~~Site  for Indu,strial Estate
5' 3  _d<24             4                   \                          X                       Built-up aress, 1971
e5'x  R   ,            >                  \                          X            -2250-C ontour     lines   in    reters
_____Existing roads
JIRAF
X\3s~ /                                         r 2 XX5 
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
(
r, H ~
_<>   SAUDI ARAERA
'B ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~'
2 ,_             o            1             2                        4\)         SUDAN          YEE ARABKOF YN
,  >,  4             o      ~~~~~KILOMETERS                                                   ETIOI           C-f f .4do--
To 'j~~sii  /                                                                                   2350) MIE4  jSOMALI



