CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 465 YAR
Project Agreement
(Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED MARCH 4, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 465 YAR
Project Agreement
(Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
DATED MARCH 4, 1974


﻿0
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (hereinafter called the
Authority).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Yemen Arab Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand
dollars ($2,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the Authority agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth,
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Authority, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the
Authority on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Authority, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0 1. The Authority shall carry out Parts A, B, C, D and E of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial


﻿4
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Authority in the preparation of plans,
specifications and detailed engineering for the Project, the Authority shall, not
later than July 1, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts B and C of the Project, the Authority
shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, as revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Authority shall, not later than January 1, 1975, or such
other date as shall be agreed with the Association, employ, in consultation with
the Association, the industrial engineer, referred to in Part E(I)(2) of the Project,
upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and shall not, without
the Association's prior approval, amend these terms and conditions.
Section 2.06. (a) The Authority undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent or otherwise made available to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Authority to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authority shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent or
otherwise made available to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.07. (a) The Authority shall furnish to the Association promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and


﻿5
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Authority: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent or otherwise made
available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement,
enable the Association's representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed
out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
or otherwise made available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.08. The Authority shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Authority Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authority shall not take or concur in any action which would have
*        the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Authority Subsidiary
Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Authority
Section 3.0 1. The Authority shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain
its financial position, plan its future expansion and carry out its operations, all
in accordance with sound administrative, financial and industrial practices and to
that end shall employ at all times qualified and experienced management and staff.
Section 3.02. The Authority shall, not later than September 30, 1974, or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association for its approval guidelines for the type of industry which would
be eligible for admission to the Estate, the general economic and financial criteria
which enterprises applying for admission to the Estate must meet, and the building*
design standards for the facilities to be constructed by the Estate Enterprises on
the Estate.
Section 3.03. The Authority shall employ a qualified and experienced
management advisor acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions


﻿6
satisfactory to the Association and shall not, without the Association's prior
approval, amend these terms and conditions.
Section 3.04. The Authority shall, in consultation with the Association, award
the fellowship provided under Part E(II)(2) of the Project to an appropriately
qualified candidate.
Section 3.05. The Authority shall, during the execution of the Project,
consult with the Association from time to time on the need to adjust the technical
assistance program provided under Part E of the Project.
Section. 3.06. The Authority shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and
repair its facilities, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate
engineering and management practices.
Section 3.07. The Authority shall at all times take all such action as shall
be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers and
privileges as shall be necessary or useful for its operation.
Section 3.08. The Authority shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 3.09. The Authority shall rent its industrial plots and standard
industrial buildings for an initial term of not less than three years.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.0 1. The Authority shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The Authority shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such


﻿7
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Authority and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Authority shall, during the years 1976, 1977 and 1978,
lease its facilities at annual rents of not less than seven Yemeni Rials per square
meter of industrial plots and not less than sixty-eight Yemeni Rials per square
meter of standard industrial buildings.
(b)   The Authority shall review with the Association, at least once every
twelve months, the rents of its facilities and the fees for such other services as
the Authority shall provide to Estate Enterprises.
Section 4.04. The Authority shall take all measures (including but not limited
to adjustment of the rents of its facilities) as shall be necessary to cover the
Authority's operating expenses including interest on debt and to realize in the
year 1980 and thereafter a rate of return of not less than 8% on the Authority's
net fixed assets in operation calculated in accordance with the method outlined
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authority
shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed for financing the Project,
unless its net revenues for the fiscal year next preceding such incurrence or for
a later period of twelve consecutive months ending prior to such incurrence,
whichever is the greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt, including the debt to be
incurred. For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "debt" shall mean all debt of the Authority maturing by
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution and
delivery of a contract, loan agreement or other instrument providing for such debt.
(c)   The term  "net revenues" shall mean the gross revenues from rent of
industrial plots and standard industrial buildings, and other fees and charges for
services provided by the Authority to Estate Enterprises, adjusted to take account
of the Authority's rental rates and other fees in effect at the time of the incurrence
of debt even though they were not in effect during the fiscal year or twelve
consecutive months period to which such revenues relate, less all operating and
administrative expenses, including adequate provision for maintenance and repair,


﻿8
and provision for taxes, if any, but before provision covering depreciation, interest
and other charges on debt.
(d)   The term "debt service requirement" shall mean the aggregate amount
of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value,
in terms of Yemeni Rials, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the prevailing rate of exchange as determined by the
Central Bank of Yemen.
Section 4.06. The Authority shall not transfer any funds out of its cash
surplus to the Borrower, other than for debt service, without the Association's
prior approval.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the Authority shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Association and the Authority shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Authority and other matters relating to the purpose
of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Authority shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower and
the Authority of their respective obligations under the Authority Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, or the performance by the Borrower and YBRD of their respective
obligations under the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Authority shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of the Authority
and any relevant records and documents.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Authority thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Authority of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿0
10
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For the Authority:
Industrial Estate Development
Authority
c/o Ministry of Economy
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Industrial Estate
Development Authority
Ministry of Economy
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the Authority may be taken or executed by the Director General of the
Authority or such other person or persons as the Director General shall designate
in writing.
Section 7.03. The Authority shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person
or persons who will, on behalf of the Authority, take any action or execute any
documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the Authority pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / W. A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
INDUSTRIAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Ily /s/ Yahya Geghman
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Subject to International Competitive Bidding
With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Bidders shall not be required to prequalify.
(b)   Before bids are invited, the Authority shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the. invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Authority shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform   the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants, and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform the
Authority and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and
advise the Authority of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph
4(c) of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.


﻿13
B.    Contracts not Subject to International Competitive Bidding
1.   (a)   With respect to any contract for civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than US$50,000, the Authority may award any such contract
in accordance with its normal procurement procedures. The aggregate cost of all
contracts for civil works so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of US$100,000.
After bids have been received and evaluated, the Authority shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, furnish to the Association (i) the details of the
bids sought, (ii) the summary of the bids submitted, and the name of the bidder
to whom it intends to award the contract and (iii) the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it disagrees with the proposed award, promptly
inform the Borrower and the Authority and state the reasons for such disagreement.
(b)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(c)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract for machinery and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, bids shall be obtained from not less than
three suppliers from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland. The Authority
shall, in respect of these contracts, follow the procedure described in paragraph
B.1 above.
3.    With respect to any contract for machinery and equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of less than US$25,000, the Authority shall furnish to the
Association two conformed copies of the contract promptly after its execution
and prior to the delivery to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Methods of Calculating Rate of Return
1.    The required annual rate of return shall be calculated by using as the
denominator in respect of each fiscal year the average of the Authority's net fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end of each such year and as the
numerator the Authority's operating income for that same year.
2.    The term  "net fixed assets in operation" shall mean the gross value of all
such assets in operation less accumulated depreciation, all determined in accordance
with sound valuation and depreciation methods acceptable to the Association.
3.    The term   "operating income" shall mean the difference between:
(i)         gross revenues from   rent for industrial plots and standard
industrial buildings, plus other fees and charges for services
rendered by the Authority to Estate Enterprises; and
(ii)        the operating and administrative expenses, including adequate
provision for maintenance and repairs, provision for depreciation  0
of all fixed assets in operation, but before provision for interest
and other charges on debt.


