14-7
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 465 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 4, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 465 YAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(Industrial Estate Project)
BETWEEN
0
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 4,1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 4, 1974, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A, B, C, D and E of the Project will be carried out by the
Industrial Estate Development Authority (hereinafter called the Authority) and Part
F thereof will be carried out by the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (hereinafter called YBRD) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Authority and YBRD
the equivalent of a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Authority of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Authority Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Authority pursuant to Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules to the Authority Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and YBRD pursuant to Section 3.02(b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term
includes all schedules to the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Estate" means the industrial estate to be established under the Project;
and
(e)   "Estate Enterprise" means any industrial enterprise located on the
Estate.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million three hundred thousand
dollars ($2,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿5
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1984 and ending January 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Chairman of the Central Planning Organization of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken, in respect of Parts A through E
of the Project, under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
(b)   The Chairman of the Board of YBRD is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to
be taken, in respect of Part F of the Project, under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.0 1. Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower: (i) shall cause
the Authority to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement all its obligations therein. set forth; (ii) shall cause the Authority and


﻿6
YBRD to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Authority Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively, all their
respective obligations therein set forth; and (iii) shall take and cause to be taken
all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the Authority to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (i) relend to the Authority,
for the purpose of carrying out Parts B, C and D of the Project, an amount
equivalent to eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000) out of the proceeds of
the Credit under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Authority under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association including the principal terms set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement; (ii) make available to the Authority, as a contribution to
its capital, an amount equivalent to four hundred eighty thousand dollars
($480,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit and an additional amount of three
hundred fifteen thousand Yemeni Rials (YR3 15,000) out of the Borrower's funds.
(b)   Without any limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall relend to YBRD, for the purpose of carrying out
Part F(1) of the Project, an amount equivalent to six hundred thousand dollars
($600,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit, under a subsidiary loan agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and YBRD under terms and conditions
which shall have been approved by the Association including the principal terms
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule shall be amended
from time to time.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Authority Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the Authority
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause the Authority to be managed, at
all times, by a qualified and experienced Director General who shall be appointed
in consultation with the Association.
Section 3.04. Until all the Estate facilities to be constructed under the Project
shall have been leased or December 31, 1980, whichever is earlier, and except


﻿7
as the Association shall otherwise agree, if the accounts and financial statements
of the Authority for any fiscal year shall show that the Authority has incurred
in such fiscal year a loss in operating the Estate in excess of any reserves which
the Authority may have accumulated from such operations in previous fiscal years,
the Borrower shall, to the extent of such excess, promptly reimburse the Authority
for such loss.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be required to provide the site of the Estate, promptly as needed, with
all necessary electricity, water and sewerage connections and other supporting
services.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire and transfer to the Authority, at no cost to the Authority, not later
than May 31, 1974, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construction
and operation of the Estate and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for said purposes.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall appoint, or cause to be ap- inted, to the
staff of YBRD, not later than July 1, 1975, or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association, a qualified and experienced banking expert acce,table to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (i) cause YBRD to maintain separate
records and accounts for the credit facility referred to under Part F(1) of the
Project; (ii) cause YBRD to have said records and accounts audited annually, in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish, or cause to be furnished, to
the Association, as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements
related to the credit facility hereinabove mentioned for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish, or cause to
be furnished, to the Association such other information concerning said accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause YBRD not to effect any change in
the interest rate on loans made to the Estate Enterprises under Part F(1) of the
Project without the Association's prior approval.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrlower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the Authority
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the performance of YBRD of its obligations under
the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Authority and YBRD and, i? respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part
of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Authority
and YBRD and, in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the performance by the Authority of its obligations under the
Authority Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the performance by YBRD of its
obligations under the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿9
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free froin any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The Authority shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Authority will be able to perform its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(c)   Law No. 3 of the year 1974 of the Borrower shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and


﻿10
adversely affect the ability of the Authority to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the Authority;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Authority have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution   and  delivery  of the Authority Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and the Authority, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the execution and delivery of the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower and YBRD, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(d)   the management advisor referred to in Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement has been employed pursuant to the provisions thereof.
Section 7.02- The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Authority, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the Authority in accordance with its terms;


﻿1 1
(b)  that the Authority Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower
and the Authority, respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of
the Borrower and the Authority in accordance with its terms- and
(c)  that the YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and YBRD,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
YBRD in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date July 3, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.08
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Chairman of the Central Planning Organization of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Central Planning Organization
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
CENPLAN
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic


﻿12
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By   /s / Ahmad Ali Zabarah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / W. A. Wapenhans
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %0 Of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
1.   Machinery, equip-
ment, furniture
and vehicles for
Part D of the
Project
(a)  imported                                    100% of foreign
expenditures
(b)  locally                                     100% of total
manu-                                       expenditures
factured                   80,000           (the ex-factory
*                                                    cost)
(c)  imported                                    80% of total
and lo-                                     expenditures
cally                                      (representing
procured                                    estimated for-
eign exchange
cost)
II.  Civil works for Parts           668,000           100% of total
B and C of the Project                           expenditures
III.  Consultants' Services           65,000           100   of total
expenditures
IV.  Technical Assistance
(a)   Fellowships                6,000
under Part E
of the Proj-
ect
(b)   Experts under            344,000           100% of foreign
Part E of the                               expenditures
Project
(c)   Expert under              70,000
Part F(2)
of the Project


﻿14
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
V.   Machinery and equip-         600,000          50% of foreign
ment under Part F(1)                          expenditures
of the Project
VI. Unallocated                   467,000
TOTAL       2,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the  term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the  term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such p.ercentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;


﻿15
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have   reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentage set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category 1(c)
shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, -adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of building an industrial estate at the western
outskirts of Sana'a to facilitate the establishment of, and demonstrate the potential
for, modern small-scale industry. The Project includes the provision of technical
assistance and credit facilities to Estate Enterprises. The Project consists of the
following parts:
Part A:     Land
The acquisition of about 13 hectares of land of which about 3.5
hectares, to be subdivided into 9 plots for industrial enterprises and
one plot for an administration center, will be needed for the Project
and the remainder will be available for expansion under subsequent
phases.
Part B:     Land Development
The preparation of the land and provision of all necessary utilities
as follows:
(1)   clearing and levelling of the land for purposes of construction;
(2)   fencing of the entire land;
(3)   construction of a surface drainage system;
(4)   construction and installation of a water supply system consisting
of a deep well with electric pump and overhead water tank and
the necessary main lines and distribution piping; and provision
for connecting the water supply system of the Estate to the
municipal water supply system when it becomes available;
(5)   construction and installation of an electric power distribution
system, including a transformer station with building, to be
connected to the municipal grid;
(6)   construction of sewage collection and treatment system; and
(7)   construction and installation of street lighting and a telephone
network.


﻿17
Part C:    Buildings
The construction of:
(1)  seven standard buildins with an estimated floor space of
approximately 1,200 m- for each building; and
(2)   an administration center of about 400 m2 floor space.
Part D:    Machinery, equipment, furniture and vehicles
The provision of:
(1)   office furniture and equipment and two vehicles for the
administration center; and
(2)   all necessary mechanical and electrical machinery and equipment
for a repair shop.
Part E:     Technical Assistance, Experts and Fellowships
The provision of about 123 man-months of technical assistance and
about 12 man-months of fellowships, as follows:
1.    Experts
(1)   management advisor for the Authority: about 45 man-months;
(2)   industrial engineer: about 60 man-months; and
(3)   short-tenn consultants: about 18 man-months.
II.   Fellowships
(1)  training abroad of the Director General of the Authority: about
6 man-months; and
(2)   training abroad of the assistant to industrial engineer: about 6
man-months.
Part F.    Credit Facility
(1)   The establishment of a credit facility of US$1.2 million to help
finance the import of machinery and equipment by the Estate
Enterprises;


﻿18
(2)  the provision of about 24 man-months banking expert services
to YBRD.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Authority
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(1)   The Authority shall pay interest at the rate of nine per cent (9%) per annum
upon the principal amount of the loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
(2)  The principal amount of the portions of the Credit relent to the Authority
shall be repaid by the Authority within a period of twenty-five (25) years
(including a grace period of six (6) years) reckoned from the date of the
first withdrawal.
(3)   Principal and interest shall be payable by the Authority in the currency of
the Borrower, and the Borrower shall assume all foreign exchange risks.


﻿20
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of YBRD Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions under which the
amounts referred to in Section 3.02(b) of this Agreement shall be relent to YBRD:
1.   Lending Terms - the Borrower to YBRD
(1)   YBRD shall be entitled to borrow from the Borrower, out of the
proceeds of the Credit, one-half of the amount of each sub-loan made by YBRD
to Estate Enterprises.
(2)   YBRD shall pay interest on the amounts so borrowed, and not repaid
to the Borrower or written off pursuant to paragraph (4) below, at a rate not
more than three percentage points below the weighted average of interest charged
by YBRD on its sub-loans to Estate Enterprises pursuant to paragraph 11(1) below,
and not less than seven per cent (7%) per annum.
(3)   Except as provided under paragraph (4) below in respect of sub-loans
which shall have been written off, YBRD shall repay to the Borrower the amounts
so borrowed in semi-annual installments equivalent in each calendar semester to
one-half of the principal amounts repaid by the Estate Enterprises under the
sub-loans.
(4)   If any  sub-loan becomes uncollectable and    after all recovery
proceedings have been exhausted, YBRD (i) shall be relieved of its obligation to
repay the Borrower pursuant to paragraph (3) above or, if such repayment shall
have been made, shall be reimbursed by the Borrower for the amounts so repaid,
and (ii) in addition, shall be reimbursed one-half of the remaining portion of the
sub-loan which shall have become uncollectable.
(5)   Principal and interest shall be paid by YBRD in the currency of the
Borrower, and the Borrower shall assume the foreign exchange risk.
(6)   YBRD shall provide out of its own funds an amount equivalent to
$10,000 to cover the local currency expenditure of the banking expert provided
under Part F(2) of the Project.
11.  Lending Terms - YBRD to Estate Enterprises
(1)   Sub-loans to Estate Enterprises shall be made to finance not more
than 80% of the c.i.f. cost of imported machinery and equipment and, if any,


﻿21
the foreign exchange cost of installation and startup of machinery and equipment
and necessary training services in connection with the use thereof. The borrowing
Estate Enterprise shall deposit with YBRD, prior to approval of its loan application,
the balance of the costs referred to above.
(2)   Sub-loans to Estate Enterprises shall be made only upon a written
recommendation by the Authority. Disbursement under the contract to be financed
out of the proceeds of the sub-loan shall be made only after the Authority shall
have approved the contract.
(3)   Interest shall be at a rate acceptable to the Association, and shall be
not less than the prevailing rates for short-term loans made by commercial banks
for similar purposes plus an adequate margin to account for medium or long
maturity. Interest rates so established shall not be changed without the Borrower's
approval.
(4)   Repayment terms (including the provision of a period of grace) shall
be determined by YBRD, in consultation with the Authority, as shall be appropriate
for the project to be financed. Maturity of sub-loans shall not exceed the average
expected life of the machinery and equipment to be financed out of the proceeds
thereof.
(5)   Principal and interest shall be paid by Estate Enterprises in the currency
of the Borrower.


