                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 34931-TU

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (SCL-45870)

                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 250 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                       FOR A

                        PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT




                                    June 20, 2006




Human Development Sector Unit
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective as of March 31, 2006)

                               Currency Unit = New Turkish Lira
                         1 New Turkish Lira = US$ 0.73
                                      US$ 1 = 1.36 New Turkish Lira

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
EKA     General Directorate of Economic Research (Treasury)
ERL     Economic Reform Loan
ERP     Economic Reform Program
ES      Pension Fund for Civil Servants
EU      European Union
EUR     Euro
FOM     Field Operational Manual
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HR      Human Resources
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
ISKUR   Turkish Employment Agency
JLC     Job Loss Compensation
KOSGEB  Small and Medium Industry Development Agency
KPI     Key Performance Indicator
LAG     Labor Adjustment Group
LRS     Labor Redeployment Services
MBA     Masters in Business Administration
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
OED     Operations Evaluation Department
PA      Privatization Administration
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PFSAL   Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
POM     Project Operational Manual
PSSP    Privatization Social Support Project
SA      Special Account
SBAS    Small Business Assistance Services
SOE     State Owned Enterprise
SPO     State Planning Organization
TA      Technical Assistance
TEGAS   Tarsus Haci Hasan Karamehmet Incubator
US$     United States Dollars
YTL     New Turkish Lira

   Vice President:  Shigeo Katsu
 Country Director   Andrew N. Vorkink
  Sector Director   Charles C. Griffin
  Sector Manager    Arup Banerji
Task Team Leader    Ibrahim Akcayoglu

                                           TURKEY
                             Privatization Social Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35

Project ID: P069894                                                  Project Name: Privatization Social Support Project
Team Leader: Ibrahim Akcayoglu                                       TL Unit: ECSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 21, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Privatization Social Support Project                     L/C/TF Number: SCL-45870
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agro-industry (59%); General energy sector (15%); General industry and trade sector (10%);
                            Other social services (9%); Petrochemicals and fertilizers (7%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Improving labor markets (P);
                            Vulnerability assessment and monitoring (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 05/02/2000                                     Effective: 12/22/2000                12/22/2000
     Appraisal: 07/18/2000                                         MTR: 11/30/2002                  05/08/2003
      Approval: 12/21/2000                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/PRIVATIZATION ADMINISTRATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:        Charles C. Griffin                             Michal Rutkowski
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim Akcayoglu                              David Herbert Fretwell
ICR Primary Author:             Irina Aleksandra Nikolic


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Privatization Social Support Project (PSSP) was designed in support of broader objectives of
economic and development assistance to the Government of Turkey as laid out in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS), the existent economic reform program (ERP) and the related Economic Reform Loan
(ERL). The 1997 CAS noted that the State Owned Enterprises (SOEs) have been a major drain on the
economy and that, following a careful review, these SOEs should be privatized by transferring majority
ownership and/or management to the private sector with adequate safety net provisions. The 2000 CAS
noted that the possibility of social unrest in backlash to the economic reform program is one of the greatest
risks to the reform, and that the PSSP project would be expected to help support the overall privatization
and economic reform program and minimize that risk by mitigating adverse effects on the population
directly or indirectly affected by the privatization of SOEs. To position the PSSP project in the right
context, it is important to note that the project was not designed in isolation from the overall reform, but
also as an essential component of the overall support to the government and the public budget in conducting
the economic reform program, of which the privatization of SOEs is an important part. The PSSP was
complementary to the US$ 760 Million ERL approved in 2000 to assist the government in implementing its
economic reforms by providing financing for the balance of payments and the budget in order to help
ensure that the core structural components of the reform program were implemented effectively, including
the need to ensure the adequate financing to pay temporary income support under the existing law, to assist
workers in finding employment before income support runs out, and to monitor the impact of the economic
reforms on vulnerable groups. The PSSP was designed to directly address these considerations. PSSP
became effective in December 2000 and was closed in December 2005. It should be noted here that the
PSSP 2, the PSSP follow-up project, was approved in June 2005 and became effective in January 2006.

The PSSP development objective was to "support the achievement of the objectives of the
Government's Privatization Program, mitigate the negative social and economic impact of the
privatization of state-owned enterprises, and monitor the social impact of the Economic Reform
Program (ERP)". This objective addressed the priorities of the economic reform as they relate to the
privatization of SOEs. It aimed to ensure stability during this process and support efforts to regain and
maintain momentum of privatization. The consultative and participatory process undertaken in preparation
of the project included Bank experts, government and implementing agencies' representatives, employers,
and labor representatives and helped ensure that the project objective and components were realistic and the
inherent risks acceptable to Bank and the Borrower. Any major privatization is a complex undertaking
dependent on a number of factors, including sufficient government determination to see the privatization
process through to its completion. In this case, the privatization process, which followed a previous failed
attempt in the 1990s, was championed at the time of the PSSP identification and preparation by a coalition
government that, by definition, needed to rely on an extensive consensus-building process for ensuring
adequate support for starting and maintaining the privatization process. In fact, difficulty in securing
adequate support for the privatization was likely the major driver of the significant initial slowness of the
privatization, which meant that the overall process was delayed, with privatization of major SOEs
postponed until later in the process. This initial delay in the privatization process was remedied during the
second half of the project with the stabilization of the economic crisis, and increased political will for
privatization helped by the fact that the government elected in November 2002 elections had majority in the
Parliament. Given that the PSSP was a piece of a greater puzzle of economic reform and that privatization
typically carries inherent instability and implementation risks, the development objective was well balanced
and sufficiently flexible to enable required support to the overall economic reform program while benefiting
broadly-defined target groups.




                                                      - 2 -

In order to be adequately understood and assessed, the PSSP objective should be viewed in conjunction
with its stated key performance indicators (KPIs):
    (a) Job Loss Compensation (JLC): The productivity of elements of the industrial sector, comprising
    about 39 former SOEs, improves as a result of labor shedding, workers displaced from SOEs receive
    severance payments, and poverty is mitigated as indicated through results of social impact evaluations;
    (b) Labor Redeployment: Labor Redeployment Services (LRS) are managed by the lead agencies
    and delivered within parameters agreed with the Bank, the demand for services is based on displaced
    worker requirements from about 39 SOEs, including secondary layoffs, and a range of services are
    delivered to displaced workers with job placement rates equal or better than similar programs in
    Turkey and the region;
    (c) Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: The Government: evaluates the impact of the
    Economic Reform Program on vulnerable communities affected by policy changes, and develops
    institutional capacity to analyze and address social issues; identifies policy alternatives based on a
    review of international experience, including EU accession requirements; assesses the economic status
    and coping strategies of workers displaced by privatization, and net impact of labor redeployment
    services, and adjusts support programs to ensure the most effective services for different client groups;
    and
    (d) Project Management: Project objectives are achieved, disbursements are on schedule, and annual
    project audits are satisfactory to the Bank.

These KPIs significantly contribute to the overall development objective, and on balance are clear and
consistent with the desired project impact. However, they do not fully correspond to the component
objectives and descriptions, and the agreed upon output and outcome indicators for each component. To
resolve any potential lack of clarity in analyzing the achievement of objective and outputs in advance, the
overall development objective will be analyzed based on its definition and stated KPIs, while the
components will be analyzed based on their individual description and component-specific indicators
(Annex 1).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The PSSP objective was not revised during project implementation.
A slightly different wording of the development objective appears in the project/implementation
status reports in the last year of the project, from October 2004 until the project closing in
December 2005, stating that the objective is to "support the Government's privatization program
through mitigating the negative social and economic impact of the privatization of SOEs,
monitoring the social impact of the ERP, and introducing improved LRS". Also, three new
indicators were tracked from March 2005 onwards (Annex 1), and were introduced by the team for
simplicity and additional monitoring purposes. It is this ICR's assessment that these changes did not
have material impact on the PSSP implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following four components:
    (a) Job Loss Compensation (appraisal cost estimate--US$ 322.40 Million): The objective of this
    component was to improve the productivity of certain elements of Turkey's industrial sector
    (previously state-owned enterprises) and to ameliorate the temporary negative social and economic
    impact of job loss compensation on workers displaced during privatization of SOEs. This component
    was designed to finance severance and related payments, as regulated by law, to workers displaced by
    job loss due to the privatization of SOEs;
    (b) Labor Redeployment Services (appraisal cost estimate--US$ 28.30 Million): The objective of
    this component was to provide labor redeployment services to workers who have been displaced by the



                                                    - 3 -

    privatization of SOEs, including secondary layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor
    market. The component was designed to finance: (i) technical assistance and minor goods to develop
    and maintain administrative procedures between PA and other lead agencies, including the Turkish
    Employment Agency (ISKUR) and Small and Medium Industry Development Agency (KOSGEB),
    which facilitate the assessment and planning for delivery of services to workers in 39 SOEs being
    privatized; and (ii) the actual cost of delivering labor redeployment services to approximately 32,000
    unemployed workers through sub-contractors to the two lead agencies (i.e., ISKUR, KOSGEB);
    (c) Social Impact of Economic Reform Program (appraisal cost estimate--US$ 1.00 Million): The
    objective of this component was to monitor the social impact of the economic reform program and
    assist with the design and formulation of supportive economic and social policies. The component was
    designed to finance: (i) surveys to monitor the general social impact of the ERP and privatization on
    selected communities; (ii) analysis of social issues and identification of policy alternatives to develop a
    national social assistance program, based on review of international experience as it might be used in
    the Turkish environment; (iii)      follow-up surveys to determine the economic status and coping
    strategies of workers directly displaced from SOEs; and (iv) follow-up surveys to monitor the net
    impact of labor redeployment programs; and
    (d) Project Management (appraisal cost estimate--US$ 1.10 Million): The objective of this
    component was to ensure effective administration and coordination of the overall project program,
    financial accounts, and procurement. The component was designed to finance technical assistance and
    minor goods to: (i) coordinate project execution, and manage the resources of the project; (ii) procure
    all Bank-financed goods and services for implementing agencies; (iii) operate the financial management
    system according to the Bank's financial management requirements; (iv) act as liaison between the
    technical agencies and the Bank; and (v) ensure that annual audits are completed in keeping with Bank
    standards.

The project components were designed to complement one another in a comprehensive social support
intervention to the privatization. The component design built on the Bank's and project team's sector
knowledge and international experiences. While it can be argued that additional interventions might have
been helpful in achieving the stated goals (e.g., a microfinancing component was raised by the Borrower as
a possibility in the course of the project and discussed with the team, and not added due to the complexities
and risk of failure involved), one of the success factors of the project was the ability to keep to a
well-defined scope and targets in this first significant wave in the SOEs privatization.

The primary implementing agency was the Privatization Administration (PA) for all components, and in
particular for component (a). The lead implementation agencies in component (b) were ISKUR and
KOSGEB, and in component (c) the General Directorate of Economic Research at the Treasury (EKA).
3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during the project implementation period.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
There was no formal Quality at Entry review. This ICR rates Quality at Entry satisfactory based on the
fact that the team anticipated the critical risks and made a consultative decision that the risk level was
acceptable, including the risks that the privatization may be stalled or not go forward (section F in the
PAD). This finding is supported by extensive interviews conducted in preparation of this ICR (Annex 7).
During the project preparation, the team analyzed the need for the project, likely demand, potential risks
and mitigating measures, as well as leveraged existing international experiences. The team held discussions
with the national and local representatives of all the key stakeholders, including labor and employer
representatives. Financial analysis was conducted for each SOE to be privatized to ensure that privatization
was justified and that adequate financing had been made available. In addition, steps were taken to ensure



                                                      - 4 -

that the job loss compensation and labor redeployment services reached their intended recipients and that
the risk of fund misuse was eliminated or negligible. This was ensured by making payments available only
after the Privatization Agency has ascertained the appropriateness of the payment and was helped by the
fact that there are existing electronic employment and social services records for all citizens in Turkey that
allowed transparent monitoring. The risk was addressed by good management of resources and through
specific procedures agreed with the Government to audit and monitor the payments and services (e.g.,
potential issue of re-employment of workers after they have received job loss compensation was addressed
by ensuring that such re-employment was not possible within six months of receiving job loss compensation
and by regular on site audits). The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and monitoring system were
established at the Privatization Agency to ensure close management of the process. In addition, the Project
Operational Manual and Field Operational Manual were prepared to ensure prescribed good practices.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall achievement of the project objective is rated on a 4-point scale (HS - highly satisfactory; S -
satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly unsatisfactory), while the individual elements of the objective
and components are rated on a more nuanced 6-point scale. This approach was reviewed and adopted
within the region for this ICR to allow for appropriately finely graded rating, and appears to be timely
given that the 6-point scale will be introduced immediately after this ICR's due date.

Cumulatively and on balance, the overall outcome/achievement of the PSSP objective is rated fully
satisfactory. The rating reflects achievement of the three individual elements of the overall project
objective. In rating each element, this ICR relied on the overall outcome and related KPIs (section 3.1) with
the following rationale for each:

   l Outcome/achievement of the first element of the overall objective--"Support the achievement of
         the objectives of the Government's Privatization Program"--is highly satisfactory. The PSSP
         disbursed fully despite the initial slowness, provided critical support to the government and
         affected stakeholder groups, and contributed to restarting and maintaining the privatization
         momentum. The PSSP made a significant contribution to the overall privatization program by
         providing budgetary support to the Privatization Administration (PA), which had significant budget
         constraints due to the economic crisis at the time, by bringing required expertise, introducing a
         range of interventions to mitigate the risks that might have taken the privatization process off track,
         and building sustainable local capacity. In general, the PSSP was a major contributor to the
         relative ease of SOE privatization in Turkey. There were no major socioeconomic or political
         upsets during or due to the process of privatization.

   l Outcome/achievement of the second element of the objective--"Mitigate the negative social and
         economic impact of the privatization of state-owned enterprises"--is satisfactory.
         Communication of the government's commitment to address the negative impact of the
         privatization and implementation of a range of interventions through the PSSP project to mitigate
         the negative impact, were important drivers in ensuring privatization moved forward without major
         upsets. In international experience, privatization processes, especially on a nation-wide scale, are
         often wrought with challenges and controversy, and more often than not, characterized by
         prolongation or abandonment of the divestiture process, social unrest, and significant negative
         economic impacts for some of the key stakeholders. In this case, it can be argued that the PSSP
         succeeded in mitigating the major negative economic, social, and political consequences and
         contributed to the government's commitment to undertaking this necessary process in such a way as



                                                      - 5 -

         to compensate in as much as possible those affected by the process. The project was highly
         successful in providing and monitoring job loss compensation and successful in designing a
         spectrum of labor redeployment services, introducing them into the system with near immediate
         traction and impact, and ensuring additional benefits of significant capacity building both in
         implementing agencies and the country (e.g., providers of important labor market services were
         developed in this process). The project was highly successful in attracting a broad group of
         generally unemployed population and mitigating fall-out from broadly defined "secondary lay-offs"
         and creating opportunities. The project was less successful in targeting the more narrowly defined
         population of workers displaced from the 44 SOEs and their immediate communities, i.e.,
         traditionally defined "secondary lay-offs", and while this outcome was affected by factors beyond
         the scope of the project (e.g., close-to-retirement age of many workers displaced by the
         privatization, significant difference in pre-privatization and post-privatization salaries, relatively
         high legally mandated job loss compensation, and government legislation allowing for temporary
         employment in public sector even though numbers of workers taking it up were low), this needs to
         be reflected in the impact ratings and lessons for the future.

   l Outcome/achievement of the third element of the overall objective--"Monitoring the social
         impact of the ERP"--is moderately satisfactory. The social impact monitoring studies agreed
         upon before and during the course of the PSSP were delivered (one planned study was agreed to be
         canceled at the mid-term review), and the key studies were fully completed in December 2005. The
         final reports for the studies were completed in December 2005, and the interim reports were
         delivered in the 2003-2005 period according to the agreed upon time/activity plan. The studies
         were initially delayed by the postponement of the privatization process. Their completion was also
         delayed to ensure that an accurate sample for data collection was defined and workers' contact
         information collected. Furthermore, as defined in the relevant terms of reference, the data collection
         rounds were performed with built-in time intervals between the rounds to enable longitudinal
         analysis of the privatization period. EKA ensured that draft reports, initial findings, and
         deliverables were shared with the other PSSP components and announced workshops to
         disseminate the findings. Given the delays, the actual findings and final reports could not be used in
         other PSSP components and in the design of the PSSP 2 as effectively and efficiently as was
         planned, but are expected to be of greater use in the implementation of the PSSP 2.

4.2 Outputs by components:
On balance, all components have satisfied their stated objectives with satisfactory outputs and nuanced
scale is used to distinguish different levels of output achievement by component.

    (a) Job Loss Compensation component (latest cost estimate--US$ 318.84 Million) is rated highly
    satisfactory. The component fully disbursed and provided job loss compensation for 18,261 qualifying
    workers, at the latest estimate, from a greater number of SOEs than originally envisioned. The number
    of 18,261 is lower than the original target of 48,000, which was a rough preliminary estimate based on
    likely payments instead of the actual SOEs' needs, and is thus not taken as a shortcoming of the project
    in meeting its targets. Payments under this component were slow through the first half of the project,
    and significantly picked up the pace in the second half. The one-year extension of the project at the
    request of the government allowed the component to fully disburse and support privatization at 44
    SOEs. Improved productivity of SOEs was verified through SOE-specific analyses prepared by the PA
    and reviewed by the Bank team. Displaced workers have received appropriate forms of job loss
    compensation--regular severance, special job loss compensation (additional to regular severance to
    encourage voluntary departures and unlike in the pre-PSSP period, paid in a lump sum to create a
    realistic incentive for the workers); and special category social assistance (to encourage voluntary



                                                       - 6 -

retirement for civil servants close to the retirement age and discourage qualified workers from taking
up employment in another SOE or other government service). The PSSP made significant efforts to
minimize any possibility for misuse of job loss compensation payments, and the regular audits
conducted have shown the PSSP to be highly successful in this regard. The key measures implemented
to this effect were that the payments were made only after the government had audited and verified
each case and made the payment. In addition, job loss compensation was paid only to workers
confirmed not to have been rehired within six months of leaving the SOE; and in the case of special job
loss compensation, only after the maximum period of eligibility of eight months had expired.
Establishing reasonable time limitations on rehiring was an important consideration for the PSSP to
minimize disincentivization of workers from taking up private sector employment while at the same
time ensuring appropriate use of the funds. An additional factor that contributed to the transparency of
the process was the well-developed electronic information system in Turkey that allowed tracking of
individuals' employment and retirement status in the audits. Overall, the component exceeded its
planned outputs and has been replicated in the PSSP 2 with very minor adjustments (i.e., some
payment levels were adjusted to ensure that more workers can be supported with the same funds).

(b) Labor Redeployment Services component (latest cost estimate--US$ 29.59 Million) is rated
satisfactory. The envisioned range of labor redeployment services--job counseling, on-the-job training,
institutional training, temporary community employment, small business start-up counseling and small
business incubators--was delivered in 31,113 cases (the number of cases can be used as a proxy for
the number of participants). Furthermore, outputs for the job placement rates have exceeded the
original targets in all services but one where it was very close to the prescribed target (job counseling).
More broadly, it can be argued that the introduction of these services through the PSSP had a very
significant impact in Turkey by delivering a range of employment and self-employment promotion
services to the unemployed, introducing a range of new interventions into the government's
privatization and employment-promotion programs, building capacity in the government and the society
at large (e.g., new service providers). As an illustration of the results achieved under this component,
the PSSP's impact exceeded the project's original development objectives in the case of business
incubators, as the government is considering expansion of the concept from the originally envisioned
six incubators to incubators in all or most of the eighty-one provinces. In the aspects described above,
the outputs have been very successful.

The PSSP should be commended for its flexibility in design and implementation of this component and
for the foresight in designing the services to address both primary and secondary lay-offs related to the
SOEs included in the project scope. The labor redeployment program was designed as a clear signal
from the government to the workers and the labor unions that the government was making a concerted
effort (in addition to the provision of funds) to assist those interested in reentering the labor market.
Testament to the success of this strategy has been the fact that the labor unions, after initial reluctance,
participated in the Tripartite Advisory Committee organized to provide inputs into the PSSP. The
availability and good performance of these services reduced social and political pressures for the
overall privatization program, and brought economic benefits to the unemployed population and their
communities. There was considerable discussion about whether the services should be extended to the
secondary unemployed, and the agreement was reached to do so in order to ensure a sufficient level of
support to the affected populations, and sufficient demand and cost-effectiveness of the services. An
annual allocation of LRS funds to provinces above the mandated minimum allocation per province was
made based on three parameters: (a) level of SOE layoffs in the province, (b) level of unemployment in
the province, and (c) poverty index in the province. However, in practice and as different from the
original expectations, the demand from those displaced from the SOEs for these services has been
negligible and demand from traditionally defined secondary lay-offs was moderate (participation from


                                                  - 7 -

those affected immediately by secondary lay-offs vs. the generally unemployed, such as recent
graduates, was not formally tracked, but is estimated to be modest by the implementing agencies) as
seen in the table below.

Delivered Labor Redeployment Services as of April 2006 (Source: PA)
    Type of service (implementing agency)          Number of cases       Cases from SOEs
Counseling (ISKUR)                                        5,415                  17
On-the-job training (ISKUR)                             12,810                    0
Formal training (ISKUR)                                   7,473                   2
Temporary community employment (ISKUR)                     979                   10
Small Business Assistance Services (KOSGEB)               3,500                  10
Small Business Incubators (KOSGEB)                         936                    0
Total                                                   31,113                   39

While this ICR was satisfied that the services were adequately communicated to potential beneficiaries,
and that there were other factors in play beyond the PSSP team's control (e.g., low salaries in private
sector vs. those in the SOEs), it will be very important to monitor this component closely in the PSSP 2
and to track the types of beneficiaries and levels of demand, as the intent in the PSSP 2 is to adopt a
narrower definition of secondary lay-offs (i.e., affected family members and direct communities vs.
generally unemployed), and to draw lessons for the potential adjustments to the types of services and/or
component design in this project and future similar projects internationally.

(c) Social Impact of Economic Reform Program component (latest cost estimate--US$ 1.36 Million)
is rated moderately satisfactory. As stated in the assessment of the overall objective, the outputs were
achieved, although through a process that was more laborious than envisioned, and the planned studies
were completed successfully. The fact-finding and orientation study was performed in December 2002.
At that stage, a sufficient and appropriate sample was not present to enable the surveys to be started as
the privatization was delayed. Therefore, the implementation phase was postponed until a sufficient and
appropriate sample was available to conduct the surveys. At that time, the data collection phase was
initiated to enable a comprehensive analysis as targeted by the project objectives. Appropriate sample
definition ensured that the interviews produced an up-to-date and high quality analysis results for the
project. This laborious report finalization activity took place in the intervals between the data collection
rounds and did not in itself cause major delay during the PSSP. The PSSP 2 will be able to benefit
more from the PSSP outputs than the PSSP itself did in the implementation process, and the team has
built in the lessons from this component into the PSSP 2 by moving away from extensive studies to
more limited and more specifically targeted analyses to ensure the component's utility as a timely input
into ongoing fine-tuning of the program during the implementation process in order to maximize the
impact.

(d) Project Management component (latest cost estimate--US$ 1.14 Million) is rated highly
satisfactory. Throughout the project, the PCU's contributions were assessed as excellent, and all the
required outputs were met. It should be noted that this was accomplished with one of the smallest
PCUs in Turkey--the PCU consisted of three to four consultants who handled all the aspects of
process management. The ICR mission established that the project management/administration,
financial, procurement, and fiduciary arrangements were satisfactory according to the Bank's
supervision mission and external audits, all of which resulted in a clean (unqualified) audit opinion.
The same project management set-up has been maintained for the PSSP 2.




                                                  - 8 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable (PA provided letters of verification for each SOE to be privatized).

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is rated substantial for the following key reasons:
   l Building government capacity through the Bank's involvement in the PSSP, introduction of a
         range of labor market interventions, and targeted technical assistance procured, including trips to
         study comparable experiences in other countries (e.g., small business incubators in Macedonia,
         Poland, and Ireland), which had significant impact in equipping the government and implementing
         agencies for effective management of the privatization process and its aftermath, and more broadly,
         of labor and employment matters;
   l Assisting in ensuring equivalent institutional development in regional government and in
         establishing new institutional forms, such as the small business incubators;
   l Building new capacity in the local market for the provision of services required for the
         interventions introduced (e.g., service providers for labor redeployment services) and in generating
         employment and self-employment in what has been a relatively "jobless" economic recovery over
         the past several years; and
   l Helping introduce additional auditing and financial discipline into JLC programs as the Bank
         helped develop and ensure specific controls for the administration of JLC during the PSSP.

These findings have been confirmed through extensive interviews with government counterparts in Turkey
(e.g., planned extension of the small business incubator concept to all provinces, no qualified LRS-type
service providers at the start to six qualified service providers at this stage according to KOSGEB).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The PSSP implementation began in the context of an existing economic crisis which culminated in 2001,
and was continued through an impressive--yet largely jobless--economic recovery (e.g., in 2004 the
inflation has been brought down to single digits for the first time in thirty years). At the same time, as the
Bank's 2005 Turkey Labor Market Study illustrates, the labor market posed additional challenges to the
mitigation side of the privatization program. Some of the major challenges Turkey faced in this period
were: (i) population growth consistently outpacing employment growth, (ii) low overall employment rate
(43.7% in 2004) and compared to EU average, (iii) very moderate job creation since the 1980s despite
economic growth trends, and (iv) high non-wage labor costs and labor regulations that might be reducing
the incentives to hire new workers. Privatization of SOEs was an important element of the fiscal discipline
that was at the core of the economic reform program, as well as a contributor to the existing reform agenda
that included the need to enhance competitiveness and the desire for progressive economic integration with
the European Union. Furthermore, privatization had not taken hold in the previous period in Turkey and
was very slow in the period of the minority government leading up to the November 2002 elections. The
economic crisis and related currency devaluation in that period had a significant impact on the project in
that the economic crisis slowed down the privatization process further, which in turn slowed the process of
payments, while the currency devaluation contributed to the poor economic climate but also created more
resources given that the majority of the expenditures are local costs under this project.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors to be highlighted in this regard are:



                                                       - 9 -

   l Overall commitment to the privatization--the government showed increasing commitment to
        completing the SOEs privatization;
   l Specific commitment to the PSSP and extending benefits more broadly--the government's
        willingness to leverage the PSSP to be able to affect positive changes in employment and
        post-privatization aftermath and extending these to the broader category of generally unemployed
        has been an important shaping factor for the scope of PSSP's development contributions; and
   l Potentially detracting legislative change--in September 2004, the government passed an
        amendment to the Privatization Law creating an obligation by the government to employ any
        worker laid off between 1992 and 2004 and remaining unemployed, the cost of which was to be
        borne by the Privatization Fund. Initially it was expected that this would be a major factor that
        might detract from the attainment of the privatization program and the PSSP objectives, in
        particular because one of the main reasons identified for the low take-up of the LRS by laid-off
        workers has been an expectation that the government would provide alternative employment. One
        year since its inception, it appears that participation in this program has been negligible due to the
        low-skill type of jobs offered and minimal wages accompanying such employment, and, as such, it
        has not affected the PSSP in any major way (this finding is based on interviews with government
        officials and current and former SOE employees, as no official figures were available at the time of
        the ICR writing). However, the availability of this option and its careful characterization in terms
        of who should be able to qualify for any such program (e.g., only those very close to the retirement
        vs. any unemployed person) would be an important factor to monitor and revisit in the course of
        the PSSP 2.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Key contributors to the success of the PSSP programs subject to implementing agencies' control appear to
be that the Privatization Agency and other implementing agencies (ISKUR, KOSGEB, EKA as
appropriate) have been highly committed and pro-active in: (i) managing the process of implementation, (ii)
discussing the PSSP program with the employers, employees, and unions in each SOE and through an
inclusive process, (iii) establishing an information system that allows ongoing monitoring and evaluation,
and (iv) continuously driving the identification and implementation of best practices in the interventions
introduced by the PSSP.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no major changes to costs (latest estimate US$ 350.93 Million of the originally estimated US$
352.80 Million) or financing (latest estimate US$ 249.56 Million of the originally estimated US$ 250
Million). The project closing date was extended in June 2004 by one year, to the new closing date of
December 31, 2005. It is expected that the loan will be fully disbursed by the end of the grace period on
June 30, 2006 (extended from April 30, 2006 at the Borrower's request). There were four loan amendments
made during the project implementation, including an increase in the authorized allocation of the Special
Account and several common reallocations between expenditure categories.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated highly likely in the short term. The PSSP components were not intended to be
sustained over time, as they were envisioned as one-time job-loss payments and labor redeployment
programs specifically intended to facilitate the privatization of the SOEs. However, as the privatization
program has picked up pace, a follow-up operation, PSSP 2, was approved in the amount of EUR 450
Million, of which EUR 360 Million to be financed by the Bank, and will retain the same four components
as the PSSP with minor adjustments. In addition, the structures established through the initial PSSP within
the PA and implementing agencies are in place and the interventions introduced are in continued use both in


                                                     - 10 -

the privatization of additional SOEs as well as more broadly for selected interventions (e.g., the incubator
expansion). Moreover, the government's commitment to privatization and its confidence to take it forward
have been strengthened, as has been the capacity in the implementing agencies. Finally, the next wave of
SOEs privatization is likely to benefit from the lessons of the PSSP and the key stakeholder
groups--employers, employees, and unions--alike can be expected to be less apprehensive of the process
as the result of the visible implementation efforts and initial results under the PSSP.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Please see section 6.1.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project identification and preparation are rated satisfactory. The project directly supported major
government and CAS objectives, and complemented the overall economic reform program and ERL. The
process was collaborative and included a well-balanced mix of skills from the Bank, Borrower, and
external sources under the two consulting/TA contracts. The project design built on international
experience and was tailored to the specific situation in Turkey. The project was welcomed and embraced by
the Borrower for responding to their needs, and included a participatory consultative process with the key
stakeholder groups. On reflection, adjusting the design more explicitly from the very beginning to deliver
services to the generally unemployed might have allowed for simpler implementation, better tracking of
results, and increased just-in-time adjustments to the program. Furthermore, measuring the impact could
have been made easier by tighter indicator design, as well as higher consistency between the project
objective, KPIs, and component objectives and indicators.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated satisfactory. Overall, supervisions were of adequate frequency and included
frequent site visits. Having team members located in the local office in Turkey has also been an important
positive factor. The team had a balanced mix of skills, made good use of economic and sector studies,
ensured that expert advice was provided during the implementation, and helped address specific challenges
that arose in the implementation. However, it appears that the original indicators were not formally tracked
after October 2004. According to the team, this was partly due to the fact that many of the indicators were
already met and/or exceeded and partly due to the transition in the Bank's project status report system to a
new form which included a recommendation to track a few selected indicators more closely (including new
ones that might be better suited to assessing the performance). Since October 2004, the team tracked new
indicators only (Annex 1), instead of in addition to the original ones. The new indicators selected could
have been more precise or realistic--for instance, the indicator measuring whether "the unemployed
become more accustomed to receiving LRS" appears insufficiently precise, while the indicator targeting
graduation of all six incubators before the completion of the project appears unrealistic given that some
were established in the final year of implementation. This ICR commends the team on their willingness to
recognize the reality of the situation on the ground by including new indicators, but also cautions that
ongoing tracking of all appropriate indicators is critical to the results agenda.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory, based on the above-mentioned factors.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                     - 11 -

The Borrower's preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government was fully engaged and consultative in
the process of preparation, and actively participated in finalizing the project design and ensuring that its
priorities were reflected. In addition, the government was open to a range of interventions new to the
country.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The Government demonstrated clear
ownership of the project objectives and ensured that underlying structures were in place to enable its
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agencies' performance is rated highly satisfactory. The implementing agencies took
strong ownership of the project from the preparation stage onwards. In particular, it should be highlighted
that implementing agencies' activities included frequent on-site consultations with those involved in the
privatization and included frequent supervisions that helped ensure appropriate use of funds to best meet
the project objectives. PA's responsibilities included overall coordination and monitoring (including
introducing and maintaining a purpose-built information system), as well as a range of SOE specific
activities including providing the Bank with evidence of privatization and additional verification that
investment is in accord with industrial strategy, productivity objectives and appropriate use of public funds.
Two factors that could have affected the implementation progress--tightening of the PA's budget and
transition of the leadership in PA--were in actual fact handled very smoothly. All the implementing
agencies (PA, ISKUR, KOSGEB, EKA) showed ongoing commitment to timely implementation, results
agenda, and capacity building (in particular in the regional offices of ISKUR and KOSGEB), and closely
monitored the indicators under their control and the performance-based contracts for services.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory based on the above-mentioned factors.

8. Lessons Learned

Reflecting on the overall project, the key lessons that have been learned and/or reinforced in the project
design/implementation are as follows:
   l Privatization programs are complex and all the key aspects--social, economic, political--should
         be taken into account in the design of the program and components, as the PSSP did. When the
         interventions are designed, they should complement each other (e.g., complementarity between JLC
         and LRS) and steps should be taken to ensure that internal or external factors do not directly or
         indirectly detract from or neutralize the desired impact of the selected interventions (e.g.,
         concurrent legislation offering employment in the government counters the PSSP goals).
         Furthermore, it is critical to involve all the key stakeholder groups in the process early and to
         communicate the program clearly and often in a tailored manner to all the key groups.
   l Successful programs should be flexible and scalable in their design, and teams should not stop
         short of formal adjustments to the originally designed set of indicators to increase the value of what
         is measured. It is critical to measure the right set of indicators regularly and throughout the project,
         and to draw implications from the indicators for the project design and/or implementation. In this
         case, it would have been particularly helpful to formally track primary demand and use of the
         services by the populations from SOE layoffs vs. secondary layoffs vs. generally unemployed, to
         be able to adjust this one and draw lessons for the future programs.

On the specific project components, the key lessons that have been learned and/or reinforced in the project
design/implementation are as follows:


                                                      - 12 -

Job Loss Compensation:
  l Well thought-through controls should be in place to minimize risk of misuse of payments, and
       should be balanced with the need to incentivize employment, as the PSSP did. In this regard, the
       PSSP experiences with providing payments only after the privatization has been completed and
       putting in place a requirement that the JLC applicants could not have been rehired by the SOE
       within six months from displacement in order to qualify for JLC, appear to have been very
       successful; and
  l The basis for and duration of job loss compensation should be adjusted as appropriate based on the
       learnings from the process. Based on the PSSP experiences, in the PSSP 2 the basis for JLC
       payments will become a multiple of an average salary over a predefined period of time instead of a
       multiple of the last salary, and the JLC length will be varied based on the employment history of
       the beneficiary.
Labor Redeployment Services:
  l In large scale privatization lay-offs, governments typically attempt to minimize the pain by first
       encouraging early retirement of those close to the retirement age. This practice may have, in the
       case of the PSSP, had a significant impact on demand for LRSs given the resulting composition of
       the displaced workers population. Lessons from this process suggest that, going forward, it might
       be helpful to build in the flexibility to adjust the type of services during the project to the level and
       sources of demand, while simultaneously ensuring the cost-effectiveness of the services (i.e.,
       sufficient scale for a service). It might also be helpful to, if opening the program more broadly
       (e.g., to generally unemployed), do so formally vs. implicitly, so that the services can be better
       adjusted to the actual recipients' needs while in parallel being balanced with the needs of the
       workers displaced by the primary lay-offs.
  l Programs should be carefully designed and targeted to maximize their utility. For instance, as in
       the PSSP, temporary community employment programs should be carried out by the private sector
       or NGOs, as an alternative to public agencies to improve job placement and employment and
       discourage the prevailing expectation that the government will come to the rescue.
  l As in the PSSP, Labor Redeployment Services need to be sub-contracted on a competitive basis to
       local service providers, which will deliver services on a performance contract basis. These
       contracts should include pre-negotiated job placement rates, as appropriate, with related financial
       incentives, and payments should be made on agreed cost per trainee or another cost-effective and
       performance-inducing measure. Monitoring and follow-up need to be always included to measure
       the impact of the services delivered as well as to ensure that there are no soft-spots that might
       allow for mis-reporting of results. For example, in case that service delivery includes a large scale
       job placement that includes a probationary period for the placed workers, it should be considered
       that monitoring results only at one point in time before the probationary period has expired might
       not be fully representative of the actual placement rates and that additional "spot-checks" later in
       the process, implemented in a way that is not overly burdensome for the employers and thus a
       potential disincentive to hiring, could also be used to ensure that the impact is correctly evaluated.
  l Small Business Incubators have had significant uptake in Turkey and in the context of the
       concept's expansion to other provinces, it would be important to think through the right balance
       between the currently stated objective of early self-sustainability (implying minimal management
       and support services to minimize operating costs) and benefits of scale to be gained by establishing
       a more extensive set of shared services between incubators (e.g., marketing services, financial
       management and tax advice, business development services, business consulting, strategy, finance,
       accounting training and services, tailored mentoring programs by type of business or affinity such
       as women owned businesses). At the level of individual incubator, the cost of such services would
       be prohibitive and local capacity might not be at a high-enough level of quality. However, as
       shared services they could be cost-efficient and effective if sufficient scale is achieved. In addition,


                                                     - 13 -

        programs could be fostered that would allow free transfer of services through, for instance,
        affiliation with business schools in Turkey and worldwide (e.g., free Masters in Business
        Administration (MBA) student consulting as a module in required programs), with other small
        business associations, and other incubators (e.g., Ireland). Furthermore, as the concept is expanded
        it will be important to ensure that the governance model and the selection process are still
        appropriate (e.g., sufficiently high level of expertise in selecting businesses and providing
        business-building feedback, process free of any "favoritism soft-spots"), which might be achieved
        by including recognized private sector/business consulting experts from other communities into the
        selection and management bodies.
Social impact monitoring: Monitoring should produce timely results to ensure that there is sufficient time
for program adjustments. The PSSP 2 recognized the lessons from the PSSP in this respect, and redesigned
this component to include project management for better linkages between the two and to place emphasis on
smaller, more targeted analyses to have direct and timely impact on program implementation.
Project management: "Smaller is better"--the PSSP demonstrated the feasibility and value of a small-scale,
well-run implementation unit with a clearly defined scope, metrics, and division of responsibilities.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION

Assessment of development objectives and design:

Original Objective

The development objective of the PSSP was to support the achievement of the Government's Privatization
Program, mitigate the social and economic impact of privatization of state-owned enterprises, and monitor
the social impact of the Economic Reform Program. The amount of the Loan was US$ 250 Million and the
corresponding government contribution was US$ 105.3 Million. PSSP Loan became effective on December
21, 2000. The original closing date was set as December 31, 2004; however as it became evident that the
whole Loan could be disbursed if the closing date was granted a one year extension, the Loan closed on
December 31, 2005. During the cycle of the Project, it was not required to change the development
objectives of the Project and they kept their validity until project closure. The design of the project also was
in conformity with the development objectives and the project was implemented in accordance with the
overall original design.

Original Components

The following project components were identified by the Bank project team, in consultation with
Government officials, during the Economic Reform Loan sector work and during PSSP preparation and
appraisal in July 2000.      The primary implementing agency was determined as the Privatization
Administration (PA) for all components. Turkish Employment Agency (ISKUR) and Small and Medium
Industry Development Agency (KOSGEB) were set as the Lead Agencies for the second component.
General Directorate of Economic Research within the Undersecretariat of Turkish Treasury (EKA) was
assigned to technically supervise the research activities planned under the third component.

Job Loss Compensation: Under the Project, this component aimed to finance severance and related
payments, as regulated by law, to workers displaced by job loss due to privatization of SOEs. According to



                                                     - 14 -

the Project procedures, 70% of severance payments made to workers laid off from an enterprise during
privatization was reimbursed from the Loan.

Labor Redeployment Services: The objective of this component was to provide labor redeployment
services to workers who have been displaced by the Privatization of SOEs, including secondary layoffs, to
assist them in rapidly reentering the labor market. The Project envisaged that PA and the Lead Agencies
(ISKUR and KOSGEB) obtain consultant services in the form of technical assistance.

Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: The objective of this component was to monitor the social
impact of the economic reform program and assist with the design and formulation of supportive economic
and social policies. This component would technically be carried out by the Treasury's General Directorate
of Economic Research. There were three terms of references for different type of analytical studies under
this component. Two terms of references were cancelled in agreement with the Bank for reasons given
below during the first year of the project. The third study which consisted of three sub-studies was
implemented.
Monitoring the social impact of the economic reform program study was cancelled. General Directorate of
Economic Research and the Bank agreed that it would be difficult to identify and make a distinction
between those affected by the Economic Reform Program and the Privatization Program in respect of the
economic developments in Turkey in late 2000 and beginning of 2001. Also, analysis of policy alternatives
for a national social assistance program study was taken out of the scope of PSSP after the tender process
was initiated. The Bank and the Government agreed that the Social Risk Mitigation Project was also
starting and this Project extensively covered the topics of National Social Assistance system issues which
the second terms of reference was about, and it was concluded that there was no need for implementing the
NSAS study under PSSP in-order to avoid any overlapping.

Project Management: The objective of this component was to ensure effective administration and
coordination of the overall project program, financial accounts, and procurement. As per the Loan
Agreement, the Project Coordination Unit was established.

PSSP components remained same for the entire project duration. No revisions were required pertaining to
the components.


Achievement of Objectives and Outputs:

All the implementing agencies of PSSP are in agreement that the project achieved its objectives and outputs.
This conclusion is supported by the information given under the section output by components.

Job Loss Compensation: This component was coordinated by the Labor Adjustment Group (LAG) within
the PA, in close cooperation with the Turkish Employment Agency (ISKUR), the Pension Fund for Civil
Servants (ES), Treasury, and the SOEs which made the regular severance payments to workers. The
Project financed one full-time long-term local consultant, as part of the Labor Adjustment Group to monitor
and oversee this component.
Under this component LAG undertook the necessary preparations and controls for the SOEs within the
Privatization program which were either sold or reached liquidity, and met the investment and use of public
funds criteria agreed with the Bank as only such SOEs would become eligible for the Privatization Fund to
be reimbursed. As a result the amount of US$ 223.08 Million was transferred to Privatization Fund (70%
of the total payments) for 18,261 people (workers and civil servants at privatized SOEs). 90% of PSSP



                                                   - 15 -

budget was allocated for this component and the disbursement rate as the output in this component
indicated that the component achieved its objective.

Labor Redeployment Services: The actual amount allocated for these services for both KOSGEB and
ISKUR had been approximately US$ 25 Million. US$ 21 Million of this amount comprised the budget for
ISKUR for these services.

ISKUR's evaluation of LRS
The target group were the unemployed people registered at ISKUR and who were laid off or would be laid
off while working at an SOE on the basis of a service contract due to privatization or liquidation of these
SOEs, and also people who were unemployed or had difficulty in finding jobs due to the Economic Reform
Program. However, the project documents note that the priority would be given to those unemployed due to
Privatization.

ISKUR's LRS program aimed to deliver counseling or training services to the above mentioned target
group to enable their adjustment to labor market. Also by providing Temporary Community employment
programs ISKUR aimed to provide temporary income support to these people. Consequently, ISKUR aimed
that the target group would either be redeployed or establish their own business.

ISKUR LRS consisted of three type of services; counseling, training and temporary community
employment.
(i)      Counseling Services: The objective of these services was to identify the participants that would
fall under the scope of the project, and with a view to assist them in finding new jobs it was envisaged to
provide them with counseling services, determination of the labor need in the labor market and to ensure
that participants successfully and easily adjust to their new jobs. Within the scope of counseling services
participants were given vocational counseling, information regarding the labor market, job club services,
social counseling, job placement and relocation (moving) services.
(ii)     Training Services: The objective was to have the unemployed within the scope of the project
acquire new skills, thus making it easier for them to find new jobs and transition to new employment. Under
the project vocational training services could be obtained from training institutions or directly from the
businesses/firms where the participants could be employed following completion of the training. In addition,
it was also possible that the theoretical component of the training would be provided by the training
institution while the practice part would be delivered in the firm. Training services had a wide range like
provision of literacy courses to those who had difficulty in finding jobs as they were illiterate, or provision
of both literacy training and subsequently vocational training with job placement guarantee, or small
business skills training to those who were both illiterate and lacked any skills for finding jobs.
(iii)    Temporary Community Employment Programs: Temporary Community Employment Programs
(TCEP) were delivered to people who were laid off due to privatization or economic reform programs
including the secondary lay-offs and who wanted to work in preservation of cultural heritage, environmental
protection, infrastructure and social assistance and similar fields to provide them with temporary jobs for a
maximum of six months. This program provided temporary income support to the participants through
temporary jobs. Consequently, participants adapted to the working environment and were able to gain work
experience and professional discipline.

Delivery of ISKUR LRS
ISKUR provided these services through service providers hired at the provincial level which were selected
in accordance with the World Bank Procurement Guidelines and Principles, following public
advertisements.




                                                     - 16 -

Potential Service Providers and Their Obligations:
For Counseling services, non-government non-profit agencies (NGOs) (foundations, associations,
vocational organizations, private universities etc.), private firms, labor organizations, public universities
provided that they offer proposals on behalf of their revolving fund would be service providers. A
negotiated job placement rate of at least 10% for the participants was required from the service providers.

Potential service providers for training services were private training and educational institutions which
operate under the supervision of Ministry of Education, NGOs (foundations, associations, vocational
organizations, unions that were allowed to conduct training in accordance with their establishment laws),
public training institutions (if the same training offer was not received from a private service provider). Job
placement obligation was minimum 50% for these institutions. Private firms (those providing training in
their own business premises) had to agree a minimum job placement rate of 70%.

For TCEPs, NGOs or Private institutions were the potential service providers. Public institutions/agencies
could become service providers based on Bank's no-objection, if offers were not received from the above
mentioned service providers or if the offers received from those service providers did not qualify to be
accepted. At the end of TCEPs at least 10% of the participants were required to be placed in jobs.

ISKUR LRS services started with the selection of the first service provider and signing of the related
contract on June 17, 2002. Contracts were closed as of 31 December 2005.

775 projects for the above mentioned services for different type of vocational topics were conducted under
PSSP. 13 contracts were for counseling, 244 formal training, 442 on the job training and 76 for TCEPs. All
contracts were completed however final (project closing) reports for 686 contracts were received as of this
date. 22,780 participants benefited from these projects and 20,208 participants completed the programs
successfully. 10,455 of these successful participants were placed in jobs. Final reports for 89 projects are
awaited. As a result it is anticipated that there will be 2,483 more participants and 1,502 additional people
will be placed in jobs. Hence the total figures for all 775 ISKUR projects would become the following:
25,263 participants and 11,957 placements in jobs.

Within the scope of TCEPs activities pertaining to preservation of cultural heritage, public infrastructure
and similar activities were carried out and hence the unemployed participating these programs were
provided with temporary income and were taken under the social security umbrella. Temporary income
support was also available to participants under training activities of ISKUR LRS. In sum (TCEP and
Training) 20,097 participants received temporary income via ISKUR LRS through 762 projects.

It should be mentioned that under PSSP, 1,000 ISKUR personnel including local office experts, directors,
staff and managers at ISKUR headquarters took part in implementing the LRS putting in their full effort
and dedication. As a result ISKUR was able to successfully deliver LRS to the unemployed and in return
this contributed positively to ISKUR's image in the eyes of the public opinion. At the same time, the
aforementioned temporary income support under training and TCEPs assisted in diminishing the social
tension among the unemployed. Finally, ISKUR's countrywide implementation of LRS resulted in timely
and facilitated responsiveness to regional employment needs and issues. Also since a large number of firms,
institutions and organizations were made aware of these services new areas for cooperation between
ISKUR and these organizations emerged.

ISKUR LRS by Years:
Number of projects, number of participants and utilization of budget differ for each province. The factors
which played a role in these differences were determined as follows; the development status of the province,


                                                      - 17 -

the province being within the scope of Government's incentive regulation, the extent that the province
requires qualified labor force in economic terms, the difference between the average salary rate in the
provinces and the incidental expenses pocket money provided to participants, the level of job placement in
view of different service types. Most provinces of Turkey were active under PSSP. 73 provinces were
involved in ISKUR services. In 2002, 43 projects were activated in 16 provinces; in 2003, 305 projects in
56 provinces; in 2004, 203 projects in 62 provinces, and in 2005, 224 projects in 49 provinces. Even
though the project performance looked low for 2002, this was due to the fact that 2002 was mostly spared
for preparation of the documents and training of local offices to start the services. In 2004 all the project
funds allocated for the year were utilized. Since it was the last year of the project tenders were conducted
only for the first half of 2005.


KOSGEB's evaluation of LRS:
KOSGEB's objective was to provide Small Business Assistance Services and Incubator Services to the
unemployed people due to privatization or the economic reform program and to the entrepreneurs who
started their own businesses within the last six months.

Under PSSP's LRS Component KOSGEB provided entrepreneurship as an alternative way of employment.
To this end KOSGEB provided the below services:
    l Small Business Assistance Services (SBAS): For those among the target group who preferred to
         establish their own businesses counseling services were provided under the topics of business
         establishment, preparation of business plans, enterprise development counseling.
    l Incubator Services: Setting up centers to provide equipped offices and business development
         services for the enterprises that would be newly established.

(i) SBAS: Pilot implementation of SBAS were launched in stanbul, Bursa and Eskiehir provinces in July
2002. 39 SBAS programs had been delivered as of project closing in 31 different regions of Turkey.
Intensive promotional activities were undertaken to increase the number of regions where these services
would be given. However, since the regional demand for services usually depended upon the size of the
local market, regions where entrepreneurship activities were more vigorous made more use of SBAS.
Regional allocation figures for SBAS were as follows: Agean Region 22%, Marmara Region 21%, Interior
Anatolia 13%, Mediterranean 13%, Southeastern Anatolia 13%, Black Sea Region 10%, Eastern Anatolia
8%.

These 39 SBAS contracts were provided via 10 different service providers. 3,500 people applied to receive
SBAS and average application for each of these SBAS contracts was 90.As a result of these SBAS, 438
participants set up their own businesses. 1,138 had been employed in these 438 businesses.

In accordance with the technical proposal service providers are obliged to agree a minimum 5% business set
up rate out of the total number of applications filled in by the participants. For the 39 SBAS contracts
implemented, a rate of 12.5% was achieved. The comparison of this rate with that of the rates achieved in
similar Bank funded projects in other countries which is 5% shows the success of SBAS in Turkey. The
achievement of 12.5% rate led KOSGEB to increase the minimum business set up rate under PSSP2 to
10%.

Under PSSP a total of 107,899 man hours consultancy and training services were provided via 39 SBAS
contracts. Consultancy and training were delivered for an average of 80 hours per person. Average cost per
person for creation of employment via SBAS under PSSP was 3,694.48 YTL (i.e., US$ 2,765.32
(exchange rate 1US$ = 1.3360 YTL). This figure is significant since according to the data of the Turkish


                                                     - 18 -

Treasury the average cost of job creation per person in Turkey was 133,000 YTL (US$ 99,550.80) for
2005.

(ii) Incubator Services: The first incubator set up under PSSP was Tarsus Haci Hasan Karamehmet
Incubator (TEGAS). TEGAS signed the contract with KOSGEB's Mersin Enterprise Development Center
in May 2003 after which TEGAS immediately within 7 months of time was able to provide offices for 20
new enterprises in its premises. TEGAS reached the 90% survival rate which was due for contract
completion, i.e., 31 December 2004 at an earlier stage, in November 2003, and reached 100%.

In order to meet the demand coming from potential entrepreneurs, founders of TEGAS, Association of
Tarsus Businessmen (TASIAD) conveyed its request to extend the incubator in November 2003. As a result
the contract was revised to include 37 new firms in the incubator. TEGAS's contract was completed on 31
December 2004. 42 businesses had been provided incubator services and 192 people were provided
employment at the time. According to the contract 90% of the firms (businesses) in TEGAS Incubator had
to survive for one year following their establishment. The rate achieved by TEGAS was 98.81%.
In order to meet even more demand coming from the entrepreneurs in the region, the premises of Turkiye
Gubre Sanayi A.S (SOE) were transferred to KOSGEB at no cost by the PA so that this incubator would
be re-extended.

The success of Tarsus incubator was followed by demand from other regions to establish incubators.
Consequently through KOSGEB Enterprise Development Centers tenders were conducted in twelve
different regions in July 2004. Tenders were finalized in September 2004 and as a result of the evaluation
process, proposals for Eskisehir, Van, Adana, Mersin and Karadeniz Eregli were qualified for financing
under PSSP.

162 firms were active in these 6 incubators by project closing and the total employment figure reached as at
March 2006 was 1,177. The total obligations for these incubators for the period during which they were
financed by the Project was 161 firms and should create employment for 540. However as given here,
actual realizations were higher indicating the success of these incubators.


Social Impact of Economic Reform Program:

EKA's evaluation of Component 3 Research Activities

The objective was to monitor the social impact of privatization and assist in the planning and formulation of
supportive economic and social policies to mitigate negative effects of privatization.
(i) Privatization Economic Impact Study aims to assess the economic status of workers displaced by
privatization by undertaking a quantitative survey of about 3,000 workers repeated three times. Main
objective from the survey is to understand the economic status of workers in privatized firms and also to
find answers to the following questions:
    l What type of workers are dismissed from privatized firms and remain in the firm after
        privatization?
    l What do workers do with their severance payments?
    l Do they use their severance payments effectively?
    l Can dismissed workers find new jobs?
    l Are workers' conditions better or worse after privatization?
(ii) Privatization Coping Strategies Study aims to assess mainly the social status, needs, coping and
survival strategies of displaced workers by completing a qualitative study of about 200 workers, repeated


                                                    - 19 -

three times. The main objective of this study is to identify the specific groups of individuals and households
that:
    l are most adversely affected in terms of economic impact;
    l are most adversely affected in terms of social impact, and
    l measure the difference between the expected and actual economic impact on the individual and
         his/her household.
(iii) Labor Redeployment Services Study aims to determine the net impact of labor redeployment services
by making a quasi-experimental comparison between the workers who participated to labor redeployment
programs and those who did not benefit from these programs.



         Deliverables                                               Approval Date

         Fact-Finding and Orientation Report                        December 2002
         STUDY 1
         Survey design and implementation manual                    December 2003
         Round one report                                           January 2005
         Round two report                                           July 2005
         Round three report                                         October 2005
         Final Report                                               January 2006
         STUDY 2
         Survey design and implementation manual                    September 2004
         Round one report                                           April 2004
         Round two report                                           July 2005
         Round three report                                         November 2005
         Final Report                                               January 2006
         STUDY 3
         Design Report                                              July 2005
         Final Report                                               January 2006

Project team included Acting General Director of EKA Gulsum YAZGANARIKAN, Department Head
Gamze UGUR TUNCER, Division Chief Firat OGUZ, Expert Tuvana AKAY CETIN and Assistant
Expert Ozcan KONAK. During the project, EKA project team worked in close collaboration with PA (PCU
and LAG), KOSGEB and ISKUR. EKA invited these organizations to the workshops held with consultant
firm and study tours.

During the project, EKA project team aimed to establish regular communication with the consultant firm
and their local project manager. Most of the communication have been managed through e-mails. Almost all
of their requests, comments and warnings were sent by e-mails circulated to PCU and WB as well. The
project was originally planned to terminate at December 31, 2004. However, activities at the beginning of
the project has been rather slow (as can be seen from the deliverables timetable), therefore the consultant
asked for an extension of eleven months and then an additional fifteen days to be able to complete the
project and the project ended on December 16, 2005.

EKA ensured that every draft deliverable or document is examined by experts in the project team as soon as
it is received. Then their comments and requests were sent to the consultant firm on time. EKA attended
some of the meetings, interviews and focus group meetings arranged by consultant firm and Strateji GfK,
and in these meetings EKA provided comments and requests regarding project implementation to enhance
the quality of the deliverables. EKA ensured that preliminary results of the project have been presented to


                                                     - 20 -

all parties in Tripartite Advisory Committee Meeting. EKA experienced two study tours to England-Poland
and Germany-Romania. Our colleagues from ISKUR, PA and KOSGEB joined to EKA in these tours.
Study tour provided international experience on several issues regarding privatization.

EKA has experienced some difficulties with the consultant during project implementation period. EKA
aimed and tried her best to establish a regular communication with the consultant firm, but this objective is
not achieved completely. EKA experienced problems regarding receiving up-to-date information about the
project progress/Strateji GjK's activities about project/field status, delivery dates of deliverables and also
reflecting EKA's comments/requests to the deliverables on time. There has been resistance regarding
EKA's comments/requests to the deliverables, and some of them have not been reflected to the reports. For
example, EKA emphasized the importance of including policy implications and detailed cross sectional
analysis but very few of such comments have been reflected in the deliverables.

Although there has been several local consultants in the technical proposal of the consultant firm, none of
them worked in the project. Consultant firms's actual team was way too far from the proposed one both in
terms of staff size and expertise. Moreover, the local project manager has not been effective. Thus, this
problem caused lack of capacity building of the Turkish party EKA in the project.

The possible negative consequences of the issues regarding implementation were minimized by EKA
working team through their determined efforts. Quality of the reports were increased dramatically through
EKA's comments and requests. In this regard, EKA believes that they had contributed to the consultant's
capacity. As a result, the project was ended successfully.


Project Management:

Overall project management was carried out by the Privatization Administration. The Project Coordination
Unit was established at the PA, and was headed by two PCU Department Heads, with civil service status,
who reported directly to the Vice President of the PA. The PCU Department Heads were responsible for
coordinating the Project activities, specifically the overall "business office" functions of project
management and all liaison with the Bank and the Labor Adjustment Group. The PCU comprised two
distinct departments: (i) Financial Management Department, and (ii) Procurement and Reporting
Department. The Department Head of the Financial Management Department also served as the coordinator
of the PCU for purposes of Project operations and had been the primary point of contact with the Bank.
Under its coordination function PCU assisted the PA to coordinate project implementation through: (a)
convening regular meetings of the Technical Coordinators to discuss common issues; (b) ensuring that the
Project is being implemented in accordance with legal agreements with the World Bank; (c) assisting with
Project implementation as requested by the technical agencies involved. PCU carried out the procurement
activities and managed all procurement under the Project, in cooperation with the technical agencies. PCU
assisted PA to set up and operate a financial management system based on technical agreements reached
with the World Bank, managed disbursement of all World Bank Loan proceeds, monitored availability of
Government's counterpart contribution to the Project, monitored implementation progress of Project
components; and worked with implementing agencies to prepare quarterly progress reports in accordance
with a project progress reporting format acceptable to the Bank. PCU organized annual audits to be made
by Treasury controllers, according to Bank requirements and agreements with the Government and
maintained Project accounts, acceptable to the Bank.

PCU also coordinated the establishment of the PSSP Tripartite Advisory Committee where related
government agencies, labor and employer unions took place and PCU organized four meetings annually.


                                                   - 21 -

Information regarding the implementation of PSSP was given to stakeholders and a platform to exchange
views on project implementation was created. Some of these meetings were headed by the PA President
himself and others by the Vice President in charge of the Project. The active dialogue with the unions
brought about participation at high management levels.

A mid term review for PSSP was conducted in April 2003. PCU hired one local short terms and one
international short term consultant as evaluators. A meeting with the participation of all stakeholders was
organized and the evaluation report was presented and discussed in this one day seminar.


Institutional Development Impact:

As pointed out by LAG at PA PSSP in terms of its structure contributed the cooperative work among the
four different government agencies. These agencies implemented a project together and gained experience in
that. Participants from these four different agencies attended joint training programs. Technical assistance
for the first and second components were obtained through a consultant firm. Subsequently, in the next
Project called PSSP2 there had been no need for technical assistance on the basis of the experience in
PSSP. In PSSP2 individual consultants together with the experts and managers of the implementing
agencies will handle the assignments that fell under the scope of the TA Contract in PSSP. Also following
and tracking international labor market developments and transferring this knowledge to implementing
agencies should be considered a contribution for institutional development.

ISKUR pointed out the following issues under this heading: ISKUR is an organization with local offices in
all provinces of the country. With this capacity, ISKUR handles countrywide employment issues and needs
through an organized approach. As an institution and by its establishment law, ISKUR implements Active
Labor Programs in order to increase employment rate and to meet the need for qualified labor force in the
labor market. Some of these projects are implemented by ISKUR's own funds whilst some other projects
are funded by international organizations. In terms of technical implementation some projects like PSSP are
implemented in cooperation with other agencies and some others by ISKUR only.
ISKUR's active role in PSSP provided some advantages in the implementation of the LRS, particularly
because of its countrywide offices which helped provision of services in a wide geographic range in the
localities.

ISKUR carried out regularity work in the form of circulars and similar documents to be able to implement
the project through its local offices. In-service training and promotional activities were carried out which
contributed to fast implementation of circulars and regulations. On the other hand, ISKUR staff improved
their skills and knowledge for project monitoring and auditing.

Since the LRS would be delivered via service providers, in order to obtain proposals it was required to
follow a planned procurement process in cooperation with related agencies. This contributed to planning
and project management capacity of the agencies with which ISKUR was in cooperation. The training
services under LRS also assisted the training cost of participating firms and the improvement of
qualification of the firm's personnel.

KOSGEB evaluated the institutional development impact as follows: Within the scope of PSSP, in addition
to the SBAS and incubator services for the unemployed, KOSGEB also conducted in service training
activities and international study tours for its staff. On the other hand, potential service providers were also
given training so as to increase their institutional capacity as it would in return mean receiving better and
qualified proposals for KOSGEB. KOSGEB also carried out promotional activities for the services under


                                                        - 22 -

PSSP.

KOSGEB's Entrepreneurship Development Center experts and the consultants hired for KOSGEB under
PSSP undertook promotional and informatory activities on the basis of the demand of regional KOSGEB
Centers. These activities and meetings not only assisted in increasing/creating demand for SBAS and
incubator services but also contributed to awareness at the regional level for setting up firms with business
orientation and incubator activities.

KOSGEB conducted training activities for the directors and experts in charge of PSSP in regional
KOSGEB centers and in Ankara, regarding the circulars prepared for implementation of SBAS and
incubator services. Fifty KOSGEB staff attended these training activities.

In addition, international short-term consultants provided "Business Plan Preparation and Evaluation"
training and "Incubator Business Plan Development and Evaluation" training to the staff responsible for the
project.

Short-term local consultants provided training to service providers in order to increase delivery of quality
SBAS to the unemployed. 75 firms received these training and as a result, while there was only one firm
available as service provider in the first year of the project this figure increased to ten during the project
cycle. Short-term local consultants prepared Manual for Setting up Small Business and Guidance Notes to
Prepare Business Development Plan Preparation for Incubators. These were translated into Turkish and
provided to users.

New entrepreneurs who received SBAS or took place in an incubator under PSSP and who had established
their own business within the first year following their application are provided a support by KOSGEB
under the name of New Entrepreneur Support. This includes business start up and fixed investment cost.

It should also be mentioned that owing to the success of SBAS and KOSGEB's accumulation of knowledge
and regarding SBAS implementation under PSSP, led KOSGEB to start preparations to provide SBAS by
KOSGEB's own resources and funds as well. Hence SBAS services would be institutionalized by
KOSGEB.

As the incubators    established under the project improved entrepreneurship and employment in their
regions, demand for incubators increased and to meet this demand, KOSGEB decided to inform the social
stakeholders in the regions by providing technical support so that the regions would establish incubators
with their own funds.

Examination of international practices indicates that organizations/institutions which operated the
incubators had legal status as non-profit organizations. However, since the Turkish Commercial Law did
not have any regulations with respect to non-profit firms, the incubators established under PSSP had to
have legal status in the form of limited or incorporations. In this respect, these firms operating the
incubators included a clause in their main enterprise contracts which stated that the partners of the firm
would not be given shares from the profits. Under PSSP the short term consultant prepared a draft law in
order to enable establishment of non-profit firms similar to those seen international applications. In the
event that the draft becomes a law, than in line with the change of their legal status incubators will be
eligible for some tax advantages and various additional support.


Lessons Learned:


                                                    - 23 -

PSSP presented a good example of cooperation among different government institutions and also
contributed to the training of the participatory institution's staff including the local staff. Worldwide
examples for training of the labor force, entrepreneurship and incubators topics were examined and the
knowledge and experience gained were reflected in the field. While some decisions under the project were
taken at the central level local offices were given authority for decision-making within the given budget
limits. As such they were decision makers and implementers under PSSP. Job loss compensation component
provided support to the Privatization Fund and PA was made available with funds from the World Bank in
lieu of borrowing from the domestic market with high interest rates. The lessons and insights gained under
PSSP laid a solid foundation for the next project, PSSP2. The know-how gained by PSSP had been
reflected on the end users.

PSSP confirmed that promotional activities were very important to motivate both the service providers and
the potential participants in delivery of quality labor redeployment services. PA ISKUR and KOSGEB
mobilized their consultants for field visits in promoting the LRS and this contributed to the number of
participants that benefited from LRS.

The financial management system utilized under PSSP was not always responsive to the requirements of the
Treasury Comptrollers. It became evident that an FMS should not only provide appropriate reporting but
should also be able to provide appropriate tools to control the consistency of the accounts. Therefore, under
PSSP2 a more usable and responsive software had been obtained.

Under PSSP lead agencies had to provide funds from their own resources as counterpart fund for the LRS.
For ISKUR and KOSGEB to utilize these funds first of all their investment budget had to be approved by
the SPO and the funds had to be then released by the Ministry of Finance. Funds from the World Bank also
had to be included in their investment plans to be utilized during the year. So it was crucial that the lead
agencies obtained whatever budget they planned for the related year to be able to deliver also the services
they planned for annually. PSSP had shown that coordinated and proactive dialogue with the SPO by PA
and lead agencies would enable obtaining the approval for the appropriate and required budget amounts.
PSSP used this approach effectively.

Creating ownership for the project plays an important role in its success. At the start-up it was very
important to thoroughly and explicitly explain the objective of PSSP, particularly component 1 to project
groups of PA as their cooperation was compulsory for the successful implementation of the job loss
compensation component. Both the PSSP implementing units at PA and the World Bank favored an open
communication and dialogue with the project groups and a number of meetings were organized at the
start-up within PA to explain the project including Bank's JLC expert. Circulars were issued within PA for
the implementation of JLC component and this component was effectively implemented during the whole
project cycle.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Calculations indicate that productivity of   39 former SOEs                     44 former SOEs (Cost/benefit tables and
former SOEs will increase when privatized                                       verification reports prepared for 44 SOEs)
due to reduction in labor costs.

Workers displaced during privatization                                          18,261
receive temporary income support
(severance) to help prevent them from
slipping into poverty.

Workers displaced by the privatization and                                      Labor redeployment services for generally
economic reform program receive labor                                           unemployed and laid off workers provided in
redeployment services to assist them in                                         73 provinces through KOSGEB and/or
returning to the labor force.                                                   ISKUR.




Output Indicators:
                                                                           1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Job Loss Compensation: Productivity of       39 SOEs                            44 former SOEs (Cost/benefit tables and
elements of industrial sector, containing                                       verification reports prepared for 44 SOEs)
about 39 former SOEs, are calculated to
improve as a result of labor shedding during
privatization.


Job Loss Compensation: About 48,000          48,000                             18,261 [Initial estimates took into account
workers displaced from SOEs receive                                             lower job loss compensation payments and
severance payments, and poverty has been                                        assumed higher numbers of laid off workers]
mitigated as indicated through results of
social impact.


Labor Redeployment: Labor Redeployment       Two agencies manage programs       Two agencies manage programs within the
Services are managed by two lead agencies                                       agreed parameters. Protocols signed and
and delivered within parameters agreed with                                     followed between PA and two lead agencies:
the Bank.                                                                       (1) ISKUR (Turkish Employment Agency)
                                                                                and (2) KOSGEB (Small and Medium
                                                                                Industry Development Organization).


Labor Redeployment: Demand for services      39 SOEs                            Major driver of demand are generally
are based on displaced worker requirements                                      unemployed who are registered at ISKUR,
from about 39 SOEs.                                                             while remaining demand comes from
                                                                                secondary layoffs and 44 privatized SOEs.
Labor Redeployment: A range of services      32,000                             31,113 cases (can be used as a proxy for
delivered to approximately 32,000 displaced                                     number of participants] including generally
workers with job placement rates of:                                            unemployed and some displaced workers
                                                                                from the SOEs, with the following success
                                                                                rates:
- Job Counseling: 10%                                                           - Job Counseling: 8%
- On-the-Job Training: 65%                                                      - On-the-Job Training: 83%
- Institutional Training 55%                                                    - Institutional Training 47%
- Temporary Community Employment 10%                                            - Temporary Community Employment 18%
- Small Business Assistance 5% start-up                                         - Small Business Assistance 12% start-up
- Incubator 90% business survival rate over                                     - Incubator 99% business survival rate over
12 months                                                                       12 months based on the TARSUS incubator
                                                                                which is the only incubator older than 12
                                                                                months (Total of 163 small businesses
                                                                                incubated and employment created for 936
                                                                                people in 6 incubators)




                                                             - 25 -

Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: 1 study                                2 studies undertaken to assess social impact
The Government evaluates the impact of                                           on (i) workers affected by privatization and (ii)
privatization on key affected groups                                             families in communities affected by
(including by sex, age, education level,                                         privatization:
region) and devises appropriate policy                                           (1) Privatization Economic Impact
responses.                                                                       (2) Privatization Coping Strategies
                                                                                 (3) Net Impact of LRS


Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: 1 study                                0 - study cancelled (agreement to cancel
The Government develops typology of                                              recorded in the Midterm Review Aide
communities affected by labor displacement                                       Memoire).
and the ERP and list of options for
community assistance


Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: 1 study                                1 study undertaken to assess impact of labor
The Government designs criteria for labor                                        redeployment services.
redeployment services to focus on most
effective services for different client groups


Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: 1 study                                0 - study cancelled (agreement to cancel
The Government drafts a social assistance                                        recorded in the June 2002 Aide Memoire).
strategy for Turkey.


Project Management: Project objectives are     $250 Million                      $249.56 Million and project objectives on
achieved, and disbursements are on                                               track (full disbursement expected).
schedule.


Project Management: The annual project         4 audits                          4 annual audits completed and satisfactory.
audit is carried out, acceptable to the Bank.                                    5th annual audit expected in June 2006 (due
                                                                                 to one-year extension agreement).

1 End of project

Sector indicators:


              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
The proportion of employment in SOEs goes                                        Employment in SOEs reduced by 18,261;
down, and proportion of GDP from private                                         Two methods used to approximate GDP from
sector goes up.                                                                  private sector as follows: (a) private sector
                                                                                 fixed capital as % of GDP went up from
                                                                                 12.6% in 2001 to 15.3% in 2005; and (b) sum
                                                                                 of private sector consumption and private
                                                                                 sector fixed capital over sum of gross fixed
                                                                                 capital, government expenditures and private
                                                                                 consumption went up from 81.0% in 2001 to
                                                                                 82.7% in 2005 (World Bank data)

Former SOEs are privatized via sale or         39 SOEs                           44 SOEs
bankruptcy and liquidation.

Negative effects of privatization on the       Yes                               Yes
disadvantaged are minimized



Additional indicators the team tracked beyond the original set agreed upon in the Loan Agreement:


              Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR             Actual/Latest Estimate
PDO Indicators

The rate of job placement following the        See above.                        See above.
completion of Job Insertion Training (JIT)
(i.e., Labor Redeployment Services)




                                                              - 26 -

The success of Small Business Development Graduation of all 6 incubators.                    1 incubator graduated.
Incubators (SBIs)

Intermediate Outcome Indicators
The unemployed become more accustomed            The unemployed developed the habit of       31,113 cases handled under labor
to receiving Job Insertion Training (i.e., Labor seeking training (i.e., labor redeployment  redeployment services in PSSP1
Redeployment Services]                           services] to re-enter the labor market


Note: Sector indicators were not tracked in PSRs. Indicators agreed upon in the PAD/Loan Agreement were included in PSRs 1-10 (PSR
10 completed in September 2004). Additional indicators were included in ISRs 11-13 (last archived is ISR 12 completed in August 2002). In
addition to indicators tracked by the team, monitoring database was set up and tracked by the Privatization Agency for PSSP and quarterly
Project Management Reports were produced to ensure project was on track from the project management standpoint.




                                                                     - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                          Appraisal          Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                                                           Estimate             Estimate            Appraisal
                          Component                                       US$ million          US$ million
(a) Job Loss Compensation                                                   322.40                 318.84                98.9
(b) Labor Redeployment                                                        28.30                  29.59              104.6
(c) Social Impact of Economic Reform Program                                   1.00                   1.36              135.6
(d) Project Management                                                         1.10                   1.14              103.5

Total Baseline Cost                                                         352.80                 350.93
 Physical Contingencies                                                        0.00                   0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                           0.00                   0.00
                             Total Project Costs                            352.80                 350.93
                                                Front-end fee                  2.50                   2.50            100.00
                      Total Financing Required                              355.30                 353.43
Note: Due to rounding, some of the percentages may appear slightly different then the rounded figures would suggest.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       1
                                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                         2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                   Other
1. Works                                   0.00               0.00                  0.00               0.00            0.00
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00               0.00                  0.33               0.00            0.33
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.28)             (0.00)           (0.28)
3. Services                                0.00               0.00                  3.92               0.00            3.92
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)               (3.50)             (0.00)           (3.50)
4. Job Loss Compensation                   0.00               0.00                 322.31              0.00           322.31
Payments
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)             (225.62)             (0.00)         (225.62)
5. Labor Redeployment                      0.00               0.00                 25.87               0.00            25.87
Services                                  (0.00)              (0.00)               (18.10)            (0.00)          (18.10)
6. Incremental Operating                   0.00               0.00                  0.00               0.36            0.36
Costs                                     (0.00)              (0.00)               (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                   0.00               0.00                 352.43              0.36           352.79
                                          (0.00)              (0.00)             (247.50)             (0.00)         (247.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                       1
                                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                   ICB                NCB                        2            N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
1. Works                                   0.00               0.00                  0.00              0.00            0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)                (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                                   0.00               0.00                  0.27              0.00            0.27
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)                (0.22)             (0.00)         (0.22)



                                                          - 28 -

    3. Services                             0.00              0.00             7.04               0.00              7.04
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)            (6.25)            (0.00)            (6.25)
    4. Job Loss Compensation                0.00              0.00            318.63              0.00            318.63
    Payments
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)          (223.05)            (0.00)           (223.05)
    5. Labor Redeployment                   0.00              0.00             24.99              0.00             24.99
    Services                               (0.00)            (0.00)           (17.54)            (0.00)           (17.54)
    6. Incremental Operating                0.00              0.00             0.00               0.00              0.00
    Costs                                  (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)
       Total                                0.00              0.00            350.93              0.00            350.93
                                           (0.00)            (0.00)          (247.06)            (0.00)           (247.06)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of the project
       management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the
       project, and (ii) reimbursement of Lead Implementing Agencies (PA, ISKUR and KOSGEB). Does not include the Front
       End Fee of US$ 2.5 Million to be financed by the Bank Loan. Job Loss Compensation Payments not subject to
       commercial procurement practices (OM March 5, 1996). Labor Redeployment Services contract per service provider
       depending on nature of services, as agreed with the Bank and defined in the Project Operating Manual. NBF=Non Bank
       Financed.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.       CoF.         Bank        Govt.        CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
(a) Job Loss Compensation      225.70      96.70         0.00       223.23       95.61        0.00       98.9      98.9      0.0
(b) Labor Redeployment          20.20       8.10         0.00        21.62       7.97         0.00      107.0      98.4      0.0
(c) Social Impact of             0.90       0.10         0.00        1.21        0.15         0.00      134.4     150.0      0.0
Economic Reform Program
(d) Project Management           0.70       0.40         0.00        1.00        0.14         0.00      142.9      35.0      0.0
Total Project Financing        247.50      105.30        0.00       247.06      103.87        0.00       99.8      98.6      0.0
Front End Fee                    2.50       0.00         0.00        2.50        0.00         0.00      100.0      0.0       0.0
Total Financing                250.00      105.30        0.00       249.56      103.87        0.00       99.8      98.6      0.0




                                                          - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable due to complexity of privatization process and beyond the scope of this project.




                                                   - 30 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/12/00                12     Task Team Leader (1); Labor
                                             Economist (1); Proc. Spec (1);
                                             Human Resource Spec (1); Social
                                             Sector Spec (1) Operations
                                             Officers (2); Social Sector Team
                                             Leader (1); Financial Mgt Spec
                                             (1); Human Dev. Sector Manager
                                             (1); Private Sector Dev. Spec (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              07/20/00                11     Task Team Leader (1); Labor
                                             Economist (1); Proc. Spec
                                             (1); Human Resource Spec
                                             (1); Social Sector Spec (1)
                                             Operations Officers (2);
                                             Social Sector Team Leader
                                             (1); Financial Mgt Spec (1);
                                             Private Sector Dev. Spec (1);
                                             Program Assistant (1)
              10/23/00                  9    Task Team Leader (1); Social
                                             Protection Spec (1); Private
                                             Sector Dev Spec (1); Proc. Spec
                                             (1); Sr Counsel (1) Operations
                                             Officers (2); Sr Disbursement
                                             Officer (1); Financial Mgt Spec
                                             (1)

 Supervision
              12/15/2001                6    Task Team Leader (1);                  S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Procurement Officer (1); Sr.
                                             Economist (1); Private Sector
                                             Dev Spec (1)
              06/12/2002                4    Task Team Leader (1);                  U               S
                                             Operations Officer (1);
                                             Procurement Officer (1); Private
                                             Sector Dev Spec (1)
              12/20/2002                7    Task Team Leader (1); Prin             U               S
                                             Operations Officer (1); Sr
                                             Economist (1) Operations Officer
                                             (1); Sr Fin Mngt Spec (1); Sr
                                             Proc Spec (1) Sr Private Sect Dev
                                             Specialist (1)
              04/25/2003                2    Task Manager (1); Operations           S               S
                                             Officer (1)



                                              - 31 -

                 10/25/2003                            6     Task Team Leader (1); Sr                    S     S
                                                             Economist (1); Operations
                                                             Officer (1); Consultant, PSD
                                                             Spec (1); Sr Financial Mngt Spec
                                                             (1); Proc Specialist (1)
                 05/31/2004                            6     Task Team Leader (1);                       S     S
                                                             Operations Officer (1); PSD Spec
                                                             (1); Sr Economist (1); Proc
                                                             Officer (1); Fin Mngt Officer (1)
                 10/18/04                              4     Task Team Leader (1); PSD Spec              S     HS
                                                             (1); Sr Economist (1); HD
                                                             Coordinator (1
                 06/27/05                              4     Task Team Leader (1); HD                    HS    HS
                                                             Coordinator (1); Sr. Proc Spec
                                                             (1); Fin Mngt Spec (1)

 ICR
                 2/20/06                               3      Young Professional, ICR
                                                              Principal Author (1); Lead
                                                              Operations Officer (1);
                                                              Operations Officer (1)



(b) Staff:

        Stage of Project Cycle                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     60.6 (see Note)                     339.2 (see Note)
  Supervision                                            96.2                              391.3
  ICR                                                     8.0                               36.1
  Total                                                 164.8                              766.5
Note (b): Estimates for Lending stage of project cycle (60.6 staff weeks/$339,162) are a combined value for
Identification/Preparation and Appraisal/Negotiation.




                                                             - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Turkey PSSP Documents:
   l Preparation documents: Project Information Document, Project Appraisal Document, Aide
        Memoires, Back to Office Reports, Loan Agreement, Negotiation Minutes
   l Supervision documents (2000-2005): Project Management Reports, Mission preparation exchanges
        and other correspondence, Aide Memoires, Back to Office Reports
   l Other project documents: Correspondence between the Government and the Bank, Impact studies,
        Financial Audits, Financial management supervision reports, Project Operational Manual, Progress
        reports

Other Turkey Project Documents:
   l PSSP 2 preparation documents: Project Information Document, Project Appraisal Document
   l Selected PFSAL I and II, ERL project documents


Other Documents:
   l Turkey Country Economic Memorandum (2003)
   l Turkey Country Economic Memorandum (2006)
   l Turkey Labor Market Study (2005)
   l The World Bank in Turkey, 1993-2004: OED Country Assistance Evaluation (2005)
   l Fretwell, David H., "Mitigating the Social Impact of Privatization and Enterprise Restructuring"
        (World Bank Working Paper, 2002)

Interviews conducted for the purposes of the ICR:
World Bank - Turkey
   l Ibrahim Akcayoglu, Operations Officer, Team Leader and Team Co-Leader on PSSP2
   l John Innes, Lead Operations Officer and Team Co-Leader on PSSP2
   l Mediha Agar, Country Economist
   l A. Seda Aroymak, Senior Financial Management Specialist and Team Member
   l Marie-Helene Bricknell, Country Manager
   l Ibrahim Sirer, Senior Procurement Specialist and Team Member
   l Andrew Vorkink, Country Director
World Bank
   l Arup Banerji, Sector Manager
   l Jeanine Braithwaite, Senior Social Protection Economist and Team Member
   l Ajay Chhibber, Director and formerly Turkey Country Director (2000-2003)
   l David Fretwell, Consultant and formerly Team Leader (2000-2004)
   l Maria Gracheva, Operations Officer
   l Robert Gourley, Senior Private Sector Development Specialist and Team Member
   l James Parks, Lead Economist
   l Michal Rutkowski, Sector Director MNSHD and formerly Sector Manager in ECSHD
        (1999-2004)
   l Sally Zeijlon, Operations Adviser and formerly Turkey Country Manager (2000-2003)
Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
   l Ozge Alpay, PCU Coordinator
   l Irem Guner, Project Consultant
   l Cihat Yildiz, Finance Expert
   l Safiye Aka, PCU and Procurement Support
Privatization Agency


                                                - 35 -

   l Rahmi Aksu, Labor Assistance Group Coordinator
   l Dogan Attila, PSSP Expert
   l Nejat Dogan, Consultant
   l Mesut Farzini, Consultant
   l Tibet Seyhan, Consultant
Treasury
   l Ayse Akkiraz, Section Director
   l Osman S. Gundoglu, Associate
Treasury - EKA
   l Gamze Ugur Tuncer, Coordinator
   l Tuvana Akay, Consultant
ISKUR
   l Bayram Akbas, Coordinator
   l Hayati Korpe, Consultant
KOSGEB
   l Mustafa Hilmi Colakoglu, Head
   l Necla Haliloglu, Managing Director
Small Business Incubator - ADANA
   l Hamit Sucu, Manager
   l Suleyman Onatca, Service Provider
   l Nevzat Arikan, Entrepreneur
   l Mehmet Budak, Entrepreneur
   l Deniz Ozden, Entrepreneur
   l Orhan Ozonur, Entrepreneur
   l Staff members at the businesses visited
Small Business Incubator - TARSUS
   l Adem Gul, General Manager
   l Faruk Yalniz, TASIAD Chairman
   l Hakan Akca, Entrepreneur
   l Nejdet Bakir, Entrepreneur
   l Ozlem Dagli, Entrepreneur
   l Nuray Senturk, Entrepreneur
   l Staff members at the businesses visited
Privatized SOE - ISDEMIR
   l Recep Ozhan, VP Finance and Administration
   l Hakan Onur, HR Manager
   l Oykay Tan, Health and Safety Manager
   l Ayhan Akin, Accounting Manager
   l Guven Gonullu, Finance Manager
   l Selected staff members on-site
Privatized SOE - MEY Alcoholic Beverages
   l Ilker Gulsen, HR Manager
   l Birgul Atli, HR Officer
Company providing on-the-job training services: TEMSA
   l Ismail K. Gurleyik, Accounting and Finance Director
   l Metin Kocak, HR Director
   l Oguz Ozbek, Education Expert
   l Anis Paydak, Export Specialist
   l Staff members and former trainees



                                                 - 36 -

Job Counseling and Training Service Provider: FORTUNE DANISMANLIK
  l Aysen Ariduru, Managing Partner
  l Alper Ariduru, Consultant
Other
  l Jacob Benus, Consultant and Executive Director IMPAQ


ICR Preparation and Mission Details:
  l ICR mission took place in Ankara, Adana, Istanbul, Iskenderun, and Tarsus between February 20
      and March 3, 2006. Mission included: Irina Aleksandra Nikolic from the World Bank for all
      interviews, Ibrahim Akcayoglu from the World Bank for the majority of interviews in Turkey, and
      in addition, Dogan Attila from the Privatization Agency for all field visits and interviews during the
      field visits.
  l Remaining interviews were conducted between February 6 and 17, 2006, with selected follow up
      after the mission.




                                                 - 37 -

- 38 -

