Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20709-TU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FORA
PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT
November 27, 2000
Human Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective: October 26, 2000)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira
TL 649,200.00 = US$1
US$1 = 649,200.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
EKA          General Directorate of Economic Research (Treasury)
ERL          Economic Reform Loan
ERP          Economic Reform Program
ES           State Retirement Fund
ETP          Employment and Training Project
FMS          Financial Management System
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IFAC         International Federation of Accountants
ISKUR        Turkish Employment Agency
IMF          International Monetary Fund
KOSGEB       Small and Medium Industry Development Organization
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
LAG          Labor Assistance Group
LRS          Labor Redeployment Services
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PA           Privatization Administration
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PCD          Project Concept Document
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIAL         Privatization Implementation Assistance and Social Safety Net Project
PMR          Project Management Report
POM          Project Operational Manual
SA           Special Account
SIS          State Institute of Statistics
SOE          State-Owned Enterprise
SPO          State Planning Organization
PSSP         Privatization Social Support Project
TA           Technical Assistance
TOBB         The Union of Chambers of Commerce of Turkey
Vice President:    Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Ajay Chhibber
Sector Manager/Director:    Michal Rutkowski
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    David Herbert Fretwell



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION SOCIAL SUPPORT PROJECT
CONTENT
Page
A. Project Development Objective                                                         2
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context                                                                     2
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary                                                          14
1. Project components                                                                14
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     15
3. Benefits and target population                                                    15
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     16
D. Project Rationale                                                                   21
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          23
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  25
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       25
E. Summary Project Analysis                                                            25
1. Economic                                                                          25
2. Financial                                                                         27
3. Technical                                                                         29
4. Institutional                                                                     29
5. Environmental                                                                     32
6. Social                                                                            33
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                35
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                            35
1. Sustainability                                                                   35
2. Critical risks                                                                    36
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    37
i



G. Main Conditions                                                                      38
1. Board Presentation                                                                38
2. Effectiveness Condition                                                           38
3. Other                                                                             38
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         38
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        39
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         40
Annex 2: Project Description                                                            43
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        53
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                            54
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              56
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    71
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  72
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 73
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           76
MAP:         IBRD Map 24110
ii



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Privatization Social Support Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: October 26, 2000                            Team Leader: David Herbert Fretwell
Country Manager/Director: Ajay Chhibber           Sector Manager/Director: Michal Rutkowski
Project ID: P069894                               Sector(s): SE - Labor Markets & Employment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)    Theme(s): Social Protection
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
z Loan          El Credit         2 Grant         L Guarantee         El Other (Speciiy)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank Financing (US$m): $250
Proposed Terms:
Grace period (years): 5                      Years to Maturity: 17
Commitment fee: .75                          Service charge: %
Front End Fee: 1%
Has there been a discussion of the IBRD financial product menu with the borrower? Yes
GOVERNMENT                                 105.3               0.00                  105.3
IBRD                                         2.6              247.4                  250.0
Total:                                     107.9              247.4                  355.3
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY
Responsible agency: PRIVATIZATION ADMINISTRATION
Address:
Contact Person: Mr. Fevzi Aricioglu, Vice President, Privatization Administration
Tel: (90-312) 441-6438       Fax: (90-312) 468-4997         Email: Fariciog0u(a)oib.cov.tr
LEstimated disbursements (Bank FYIUS$M-0
FY       2001       2002       2003       2004
Annual         21         58         98         73
Cumulative        21          79       177         250
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date; January 1, 2001  Expected closing date: December 31, 2004
OCS POD F.. Rr M.,P. 2DOO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed Privatization Social Support Project (PSSP)
is to support the achievement of the objectives of the Government's Privatization Program,
mitigate the negative social and economic impact of the privatization of state-owned enterprises,
and monitor the social impact of the Economic Reforn Program (ERP).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
(a)   Job Loss Compensation: The productivity of elements of the industrial sector,
comprising about 39 former state-owned enterprises (SOEs), improves as a result of labor
shedding, workers displaced from SOEs receive severance payments, and poverty is mitigated as
indicated through results of social impact.
(b)   Labor Redeployment: Labor Redeployment Services are managed by two lead agencies
and delivered within parameters agreed with the Bank, the demand for services is based on
displaced worker requirements from about 39 SOEs, including secondary layoffs, and a range of
services are delivered to displaced workers with job placement rates equal or better than similar
prograrns in Turkey and the region.
(c)   Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: The Government: evaluates the impact of
the Economic Reform Program on vulnerable communities affected by policy changes, and
develops institutional capacity to analyze and address social issues; identifies policy alternatives
based on a review of international experience, including EU accession requirements; assesses the
economic status and coping strategies of workers displaced by privatization, and net impact of
labor redeployment services, and adjusts support programs to ensure the most effective services
for different client groups.
(d)   Project Management: Project objectives are achieved, disbursements are on schedule,
and annual project audits are satisfactory to the Bank.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R97-202              Date of latest CAS discussion: 09/04/1997
The Privatization Social Support Project is directly linked to and supports the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), the Economic Reform Program, and the related Economic Reform
Loan (ERL). The 1997 CAS notes that the SOEs have been a major drain on the budget and drag
on the economy for years and indicates that, as a base case strategy/action to address persistent
financial imbalances and erratic growth, the state-owned enterprise sector should be privatized
2



by transferring majority ownership and/or management to the private sector, with adequate
safety net provisions (CAS Attachment 1, page 2). The proposed PSSP addresses the safety net
provisions. The draft 2000 CAS, which has been reviewed by the Operations Committee, notes
that the possibility of political backlash to the reform program is one of the greatest risks to the
reform. The proposed PSSP is included in the High Case scenario, and the CAS notes that the
project would help address this risk by providing assistance to those adversely affected by the
reforms in the early phases of privatization and ensuring the negative effects of the reforms on
the disadvantaged is minimized. The Government recognizes the need for fundamental reforms
to improve productive and allocative efficiency and to reduce the SOE sector's heavy fiscal
burden. The primary instrument for achieving these objectives is divestiture, including both
privatization and closure. The Government and the Bank are in broad agreement on the
diagnosis and strategies for economic adjustment and structural reform with a focus that includes
privatization and closure of state-owned enterprises. The Turkish Government has embarked
upon an ERP which is supported by the World Bank through the high case of the Country
Assistance Strategy for Turkey. The Government's ERP is also supported by the December
1999 International Monetary Fund (IMF) stand-by arrangement.
The PSSP supports the Economic Reform Program which is underway. The Economic
Reform Loan was approved by the Board in May 2000 and the first US$385 million tranche was
released in June 2000. The US$760 million ERL is assisting Turkey to implement its ERP by
providing quick-disbursing financing for the balance of payments and the budget. A key
objective of the ERL is to ensure that the core structural components of the reform program are
implemented effectively in order to ensure the sustainability of the fiscal adjustment and
disinflation program, and create the foundation for restored growth over the medium term. A
key component of the structural reforms supported by the ERL is the privatization program
which has three pillars: telecommunications, energy, and the enterprise privatization agenda of
the Privatization Administration (PA). The ERL includes analysis of the impact of the Economic
Reform Program on the groups likely to be hardest hit, among which are workers in state-ownecl
enterprises slated for privatization. The ERL notes the need to ensure that adequate financing is
available to pay temporary income support provided for by law, to assist workers in finding
employment before income support runs out, and to monitor the impact of the economic reforms
on vulnerable groups. The proposed US$250 million PSSP directly addresses these three
concerns. It is recognized that the privatization program is generating considerable revenue.
Over US$5 billion in investor commitments have already been raised by the privatization
program in 2000 and the program is targeted to generate approximately US$18 billion in cash
privatization revenues over the 2000-2002 period. Approximately US$10 billion of these
amounts could be used, in principle, to cover the costs of programs proposed under the PSSP.
However, the Government has agreed with the IMF to earnark cash revenues from privatization
to support reduction of the stock of public debt (particularly short-term domestic debt) as a share
of output. This is part of a broader effort to put public finances on a sustainable path that is at
the center of the disinflation strategy. Therefore, although structured as an investment loan, the
PSSP is considered an essential component of the overall support for the public budget to be
provided by the Bank under the reform program. In addition, the Government is interested in
using Bank expertise to assist in the development and supervision of PSSP-related activities.
3



2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The economic reform program is expected to have long term positive impacts on people's
lives. However, some groups in the society will face temporary difficulties as a result of the
economic reform program. Owing to gaps in the social safety net, it will be difficult to protect
all of Turkish society from adverse effects of the economic reforms. The main groups affected
negatively by the reforms, and not protected in Turkey's still-evolving social safety net, will be
workers laid off from privatization of state-owned enterprises, beginning with the electricity
sector and telecommunications; consumers who will face increased electricity prices; and small
farmers who will lose agricultural subsidies. An analysis of the impact on these groups is
contained in the February 17, 2000 Bank Sector analysis titled Policy Options to Address the
Social Impact of Economic Reform. This report outlines the potential scale of labor displacement
from the ERP and privatization, and suggests social support programs and costs.
The first major benefit from the govermment's reform program will be a reduction in
inflation and in the costs of adjusting to inflation. A recent World Bank study on living
standards and social welfare in Turkey found that there are significant adjustment costs to
inflation for the vulnerable. Non-anticipated jumps in inflation or periods of accelerating
inflation unambiguously hurt the poor and worsen the distribution. However, this effect appears
to wear off over time, as households modify their behavior, indexation mechanisms come into
play, and nominal incomes adjust. Although the effect may indeed wear off over time, it is
important to avoid the cost of adjusting to inflation in the first place, since that cost falls
disproportionately on the vulnerable.
The second impact and benefit from the government's reform program is the resumption
of economic growth. Economic growth is the single best way to help people escape poverty
because growth leads to more jobs and higher incomes. It has been estimated that 36% of the
Turkish population were economically vulnerable and 7% were extremely poor in 1994 (World
Bank Living Standards Assessment). Simply by having real private consumption grow at a rate
of 5.05% per year between 1994 and 2000, would drop the share of the economically vulnerable
to 16% of the population. The distribution of consumption may have worsened somewhat due to
the inflation experienced in 1994-1999 (although the Living Standards Assessment suggested
that perhaps there would be no worsening if the pattern of 1987-1994 repeated itself). This
underscores that growth must be accompanied by stabilization to achieve better economic
outcomes.
The third aspect of the economic reform program, changes in relative prices and some
taxation rates for basic goods, will affect the entire population, but will be especially significant
for the vulnerable. Overall, the economic reform program's fiscal adjustment relies on measures
from the revenue side, and requires much less adjustment in relative prices such as the exchange
rate. However, the Turkish economic reform program projects little or no change in the real
exchange rate, and therefore, limited adjustment in the relative prices of tradeables.
4



Revenue-side measures will have some regressive impact on the vulnerable since the
standard value-added tax rate was increased from 15 to 17%. However, there are important
exceptions for the vulnerable in the VAT schedule, since basic foods, including bread, are
subject to a lower VAT rate of only 8%. Additional one-time revenue measures, which were
introduced in November 1999, consist of additional personal income taxes (covering only the
high income groups), corporate tax payments, and an additional amount of motor vehicle and
property taxes. It is clear that these one-time tax adjustments will not be collected from the
vulnerable. So, the relative position of the vulnerable facing these revenue adjustments is
possibly even better than that of the rich, making the revenue reforms, if not progressive, at least
evenly distributed across Turkish society.
Real interest rates have been high in Turkey. Real yields on marketable domestic debt
averaged over 30% in the second half of the 1990s. These high yields reflected in part the
weaknesses of public finances. The economic reform program is expected to lead to a rapid
reduction in interest rates. The reaction of interest rates in the first month of implementation of
the economic reform program has been positive. The sharp decline in real interest rates will
have positive impacts for the vulnerable in two channels: reducing the need for additional
taxation, and creating a more favorable industrial sector environment for additional employment
generation.
The agricultural reform may lead to a decline in the price of wheat and bread, owing to
the lowering of the support price for wheat down towards the international market price. The
vulnerable spend more of their household budget on bread than do the wealthy, and the
vulnerable will certainly benefit from any reduction in the price of bread.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
As noted previously, the proposed PSSP is an integral part of the Economic Reform
Program and supports the related Economic Reform Loan (ERL). The proposed PSSP supports
implementation of the fourth objective of the Economic Reform Loan (ERL) which promotes
deregulation and private participation in energy, telecommunications, infrastructure, and
acceleration of privatization. The Government is restoring the momentum of Turkey's
privatization program which was dissipated in early 1999. Accelerating privatization is a key
supply-side element in the effort to restore growth. It also represents a core component of the
fiscal package for 2000 and 2001. A new privatization program, which includes major
companies of national importance, has been approved, and the Government indicates that this
will be formally extended in the last half of 2000. The Privatization Administration (PA) is
making progress in implementing its program. The PA has already established a credible
implementation track record for the 2000 program, including: (i) initiating tenders for at least 15
companies; (ii) initiating negotiations for at least 10 companies; and (iii) signing sale contracts
for at least five companies. While this track record demonstrates the PA's ability to carry out the
prograrn, the larger operations are scheduled to be completed later in the year and the PA must
maintain if not accelerate its pace in order to meet the year-end targets.
5



The primary focus of the proposed PSSP is to increase productivity of former SOEs by
facilitating shedding of excess labor; and to cushion the social impact of labor displacement
during privatization and economic reform. There is a need to ensure that there is a social support
program that is directly linked to, and will support the implementation of, the ERP and the
privatization program. Turkey's social support system will be stressed by the challenges
stemming from the ERP, and particularly by the layoffs of personnel expected in SOEs under the
portfolio at the Privatization Administration, and to a lesser degree in the electricity and
telecommunications sectors. This stress will be in addition to that already being encountered as
a result of the economic impact of the earthquake.
The PSSP must be designed to reduce the short-term negative impact of economic
changes on affected workers and communities. Without such support, the ERP may be slowed
or aborted. In addition to providing direct support to workers displaced by privatization, the
proposed PSSP will also monitor the social impact of privatization of SOEs and the ERP in
general, and will support continued sector work to define alternatives to improve the design and
targeting of social assistance for the most vulnerable. This work is also supported by an ongoing
PHRD-financed pilot Social Development Project.
There are economic, social, and political objectives for providing social support packages
to workers displaced by restructuring and privatization of SOEs. From an economic standpoint,
the objectives are to reduce excess labor costs so enterprises can increase productivity and be
competitive, and to facilitate the rapid return of workers to productive employment, thereby
reducing the duration of state-supported income support payments. From a social standpoint,
the objectives are to provide transitional income support while displaced workers are finding
alternate employment and, for those who have difficulty finding employment, providing
extended income support to prevent these workers and their families from slipping into poverty.
From apolitical standpoint, social support programs are intended to build public support for
restructuring by signaling to citizens, communities, and labor representatives that those
responsible for restructuring are attuned to the needs of affected workers and that they are ready
and willing to assist those who need and want help.
Social support programs combine elements that encourage excess labor to leave over-
staffed enterprises, while at the same time helping them to rejoin the labor market quickly.
These measures should include both temporary income support and labor redeployment
programs. To be effective, the measures must be carefully designed and targeted. Furthermore,
there must be continuing monitoring of the social impact on displaced workers and their families
to ensure that the most vulnerable do not slip into poverty, the labor redeployment services are
reaching the most needy workers, and additional assistance is provided, as needed.
Many countries around the world are implementing economic restructuring and reform
programs. Some of these programs are directly linked with privatization of state-owned
enterprises (e.g., in transition economies in Eastern Europe and Central Asia), while others (e.g.,
North America and Western Europe) are part of an ongoing process of economic change and
renewal. Turkey already has gained some experience in this field.
6



The design and use of social support programs varies considerably among countries and
is greatly influenced by the economic environment, including the level of unemployment, and
the types of general social support programs already in place in the country where economic
restructuring is occurring. A review of 12 case studies of enterprise divestiture in Europe, Latin
America and Asia indicated that workers as a class did not lose by divestiture, but that individual
workers could be worse off, especially where layoffs or reduced hiring were involved (Welfare
Consequences of Selling Public Enterprises. "Case studies from Chile, Malaysia, Mexico and
the UK" Synthesis of Cases and Policy Summary. World Bank Conference Proceedings. June,
1992). Unfortunately, this is the environment in which divestiture often occurs, and this is why
temporary income support and labor redeployment programs are often instituted to minimize
losses. A more detailed review of this experience is contained in a separate document titled
"Policy Options to address the Social Impact of Economic Reform in Turkey", February 17, 2000
and updated in June and July 2000. A brief summary follows.
Job Loss Income Support Issues and Choices:
Job loss income support programs that support economic restructuring normally combine
the types of programs that are available to the general unemployed, along with special programs
that are designed to encourage excess labor to leave enterprises undergoing privatization and
economic reform, and provide temporary income support to these workers as they make the
transition to alternate employment. While each situation is unique, there are a range of program
choices. The final design depends on such factors as: general economic conditions, the general
level of unemployment, the demographics of the workforce, the conditions of remuneration of
the affected workers, the relationship between representatives of labor, the state, and enterprise
management, and the role of the enterprise in the country and community. Isolated communities,
where one employer dominates, are a particular problem. Income support programs can be quite
costly in the short-run (e.g., in excess of an average of US$10,000 per worker); however, costs
can be reduced significantly if displaced workers are able to find alternative employment rapidly.
Additionally, making one-time severance payments to workers to encourage them to leave an
enterprise is often less costly than continuing to employ them in loss-making enterprises, and
will help enterprises return to profitability.
The alternatives for income support can include programs such as unemployment
benefits, social assistance, individual pension accounts, regular severance, special job loss
compensation, early retirement, and share distribution. The proposed PSSP will focus on regular
severance and job loss compensation (see Section DI for a discussion of the rationale for
selection of these altematives).
* Regular Severance: The parameters for these payments are defined in Labor Law Number
1475. Article 14 defines detailed eligibility for workers. The annual ceiling is adjusted, is
currently about four times gross minimum wage, and is a maximum of twelve months based
on one month per year of service. Workers with less than one year of services are not
eligible.
7



*  Special Job Loss Compensation: The parameters for these payments are defined in the
Privatization Law Number 4046, Articles 21 and 22. Payments to workers may be up to
eight months depending on length of service, and are based on net daily pay of the employee
as calculated in Articles 77 and 78, in the Social Security Law Number 506.
*  Social Assistance (Civil Servants): The parameters for these payments are defined in the
Privatization Law Number 4046, Article 24. This Law provides a 30% retirement bonus, in
addition to the payment made to all retiring civil servants, to those who are within two
months of reaching the voluntary retirement age before or at the time of privatization, in
order to induce those employees who have sufficient years of services to qualify for
retirement, to actually do so. Employees are given two months from the date of privatization
to choose this option. Regular retirement bonuses, in general, are calculated on a worker's
monthly wage times the number of years of services. This program only applies to civil
servants.
Labor Redeployment Issues and Choices:
Labor redeployment programs are designed to help displaced workers quickly re-enter
the labor force, increase overall productivity, and decrease use of state-supported income support
payments. These services support, and need to be coordinated with, income support payments.
These programs can have a significant positive impact (Evaluation of the Impact ofActive Labor
Programs; Results of Cross Country Studies in Europe and Central Asia. Fretwell, Benus and
Oleary. World Bank Discussion Paper, June 1999, # 9915) if appropriately targeted and well-run
(e.g., services are demand-driven and delivered by service providers which have performance
based contracts). Experience in Turkey and other countries indicates that these services are
nononally used by about one-third to one-half of displaced workers and are relatively low cost
(e.g., averaging US$750-1,000 per worker) as compared with income support payments.
It should also be noted that while income support payments are often directed only to
workers directly displaced by privatization and economic reform, other affected workers (e.g.,
family members, secondary layoffs) may need access to redeployment services. These programs
can help to produce positive social and political reactions to economic reform programs at a
reasonably low cost. Turkey is currently providing a limited range of these services for the
general population of the unemployed, under the Bank-financed Employment and Training
Project (ETP). This is being implemented by the Turkish Employment Agency and will close in
December 2000. The Turkish Employment Agency is also providing these limited services, with
financing from the Privatization Administration, for workers displaced by ongoing privatization
actions (this is a continuation of a broader program financed by the now completed Privatization
Implementation Assistance and Social Safety Net Project--PIASNP). A variety of services are
needed to address three conditions commonly experienced by displaced workers who are trying
to re-enter the labor market:
8



*  Frictional Unemployment is experienced by displaced workers who have marketable skills
for which there is demand, but need intensive job placement assistance. These services can
have a substantial positive impact on re-employment and have a low unit cost (e.g., US$25-
50 per worker in Turkey). These services can include assistance for remote job search and
relocation.
*  Structural Unemployment is experienced by displaced workers who lack skills, or whose
skills are not in demand, and who need some re-skilling to compete and re-enter the labor
market. Different types of retraining, including on-job-training and/or institutional training,
are needed in these circumstances and can help redeployment at a moderate cost per worker
(e.g., US$300-500 in Turkey).
*  Lack of demandfor labor is a particular problem in areas of high unemployment and in
mono-enterprise communities which shed large amounts of labor. Programs include small
business consulting assistance, incubators, and micro-loans (although the latter may not be
critical if substantial severance payments are provided). These programs tend to be more
expensive than other services (e.g., US$1,500-2,000 per job created), and attract a limited
number of participants from state enterprises (e.g., 5-6%), but can be quite effective.
Temporary Community Employment Programs are also sometimes used. Although the social
and infrastructure benefits are recognized, these programs must be limited and carefully
targeted to the vulnerable because of the high unit costs (e.g., US$2,000) and considerable
evidence that they have no impact, and often a negative impact, on post-program
employment and wages. Finally, local economic development planning grants, particularly
in mono-enterprise communities, can have a positive long term impact on job creation and
have already been implemented successfully in Turkey.
Specific labor redeployment programs to be supported by the proposed PSSP have both
social and economic objectives, and are generally provided for in the Privatization Law Number
4046, Article 21. This Article provides a menu of demand-driven services intended to assist
displaced workers to re-enter the labor market. Services have included a range of employment
creation prograins such as small business assistance programs (excluding micro-Loan because of
the severance payments already provided for) and local economic development planning grants
to selected communities, programs which address structural unemployment including various
types of retraining, and programs which address frictional employrnent, including specialized job
placement services. Unit costs, based on current experience, average about US$750-1,000, and
participation of displaced workers ranges from 33-45%. Such programs have already been
implemented under the completed Bank-financed Privatization hmplementation Assistance and
Social Safety Net Project. These programs are continuing with financing from the PA.
Evaluations conducted in Turkey and neighboring countries indicate that the programs can have
a significant positive impact on employment and wages if they are well-targeted and designed
(Fretwell, David; Jacob Benus and Chris Oleary. "Evaluating the Impact of Active Labor
Programs: Results of Cross Country Studies in Europe and Central Asia. World Bank
Discussion Paper, 1999. Labor Adjustment Project. "Final Monitoring and Evaluation Report'
Privatization Implementation and Technical Assistance Project, Treasury, Turkey, June 1998.).
9



The current Privatization Law program does not apply to secondary unemployment
created in communities experiencing large-scale SOE layoffs or to labor displacement caused by
the broader economic reform program. However, there is a general labor redeployment program
operating at the Turkish Employment Agency (ISKUR) which has been evaluated; this is
financed under a World Bank Loan and is scheduled to close in 2000. Consideration should also
be given to providing an ongoing labor redeployment program, by extending ISKUR program to
workers who represent "secondary layoffs" in communities where large-scale SOE downsizing
take place or as a result of the overall ERP.
Choices in Financing Social Support Services During Privatization:
There are potentially two quite different approaches to provision of social support, and in
particular, severance type income support payments: (a) let the new investor deal with the issue,
or (b) have the Government assist prior to sale of the SOE.
* Investor Driven Layoffs: This approach is one in which the new investor will restructure the
enterprise and address related labor requirements. This assumes that the Government will
sell the enterprises at a discounted price, if necessary, and let the new owners deal with the
restructuring and related layoffs. This is the preferred option, as the new investor is in the
best position to know the labor requirements of the enterprise which is being purchased.
With this option, there is no Government participation in the administration and financing of
temporary income support and related labor redeployment programs. Initial analyses
undertaken by the Bank, in cooperation with the Government, provide an approximation of
the costs that a buyer may encounter in reworking the labor force and laying off excess
employees in specific SOEs. With this information "in-hand", the Government has an idea
of how much the price of the SOE would need to be discounted to compensate investors for
costs of excess labor; and the investor would have to bear the cost of minimum regular
severance payments defined in the Labor Law 1475. Currently, about one-quarter of
privatization actions are being organized as "block sales" which include excess labor and
discount the sale by a related amount.
*  Government Assisted Layoffs: The above approach may make some SOEs very unattractive
to buyers, particularly if the enterprises have large numbers of excess workers, and the
financial and social costs of layoff are high. Buyers have other investment alternatives and
may not want to get involved in laying off large numbers of workers in a heavily unionized
environment immediately after purchasing an SOE. In addition, the basic severance option
under the Labor Law 1475 may not be viewed by unions as sufficient reimbursement for
layoffs, or be sufficient to encourage and compensate workers to leave SOEs at a time when
alternate employment is not easily available, and the unemployment benefit program is not
yet in force. The Privatization Law 4046 addresses this issue by providing a framework for
additional support and labor redeployment services to SOE employees displaced by
restructuring. If these programs are made available before and at point of sale, increased
amounts of labor may leave voluntarily, the SOEs will be more salable, social issues will be
10



addressed by the Government to demonstrate its support to affected citizens, and the reaction
of organized labor to the privatization program may be less negative and strident. The
Government may, in fact, be able to recapture rapidly the cost of any Social Support
Programs provided prior to sale by gaining a higher cost from the sale. The analysis
presented at the end of Section B provides a summary of the costs of applying Privatization
Law measures to SOEs, as well as several other programs that may be considered to help
encourage excess labor to leave SOEs, and help displaced workers to re-enter rapidly the
labor force.
The choice used in the PSSP, with regard to job loss compensation and layoffs, will be a
blend of the two approaches, investor-driven and government-assisted, depending on the SOE
involved. The proposed project will only finance government-assisted approaches. The Bank
and Government will agree on two criteria for use of Loan funds: (a) the payment of severance at
the point of sale will result in productivity increases due to savings on labor costs, and these
savings will be greater than the cost of severance payments; and (b) the use of loan funds to
finance severance will be justified based on the characteristics of enterprise involved (e.g., large
number of layoffs, mono-enterprise community, etc.).
Social Support Program Cost Estimates:
Based on an analysis of the previously described experience and alternatives, including
past experience with labor displacement during privatization and economic reform in Turkey, the
following scenario has been developed to estimate the immediate cost of labor displacement
during privatization of a defined group of about 39 SOEs in Turkey. Detailed costing with all
assumptions is contained in the initial sector report titled "Policy Options to Address the Social
Impact of Economic Reform - Turkey," February 17, 2000, and updated during the pre-appraisal
and appraisal missions of the proposed project in June and July 2000.
The Government has indicated that alternative SOEs will be added for 2001 and 2002.
The costing of the loan is now at US$250 million which is the same as the original PCD
estimate. The following estimates of costs for income support (severance) payments are based
on a detailed review of labor demographics, salaries, potential levels of over-staffing, etc., for
each of the 39 SOEs. Estimates are based on actual data provided by the Treasury, Privatization
Administration, and other agencies involved with the privatization program and operation of
income support programs. The cost for labor redeployment programs is based on past and
current unit cost and take-up data on parallel programs already operated and operating. In
general, and based on experience, it is anticipated that financing should be provided for about
33% of workers displaced by privatization plus an equal amount of secondary. This will cover
only a portion of the general 8% unemployed. The costing can easily be varied by increasing or
decreasing the number of SOEs and displaced workers as Government estimates mature, or by
varying the assumptions regarding eligibility, take-up, and unit costing of different programs.
11



TABLE 1- TURKEY: Social Support Program - Summary
YEAR 2000                               YEAR 2001+
a                 b       c        d          e          f      g         h
TAKE    COST                          TAKE    COST
SOCIAL SUPPORT PROGAMS    ELIGIBLE   UP%   TL 000,000  COST USD ELIGIBLE| UP0/I TL 0000,00 I  COST USD
LABOR LAW 1475
-RegularSeverance           26,382    38%  55,768,900   92,180,000   99,843    24%   27,147,599   44,872,064
PRIVATIZATION LAW 4046
- Job Loss Compensation     26,086    21%  19,920,600   32,926,612   53,698    9%   16,553,206    27,360,671
- Retirement Social Assistance
(Civil Servants)               3,878    35%  12,174,981   20,123,936   45,973    16%   65,053,203  107,525,955
Sub-total                                  32,095,581   53,050,547                81,606,408    134,886,626
TOTAL                                        87,864,481  145,230,547               108,754,007    179,758,689
' For a detailed breakdown of costs and assumptions for each of the 39 SOEs, see sector report "Policy Options to Address the
Social Impact of Economic Reform - Turkey," February 17, 2000, updated during pre-appraisal July 26, 2000).
The group of 39 SOEs which are expected to draw on the loan facility have the following
characteristics:
*       A total of about 48,000 employees are expected to be affected, representing about 40,000
workers (i.e., unionized employees), and more than 8,000 civil servants, based on an assumption
that almost all the enterprises will be sold. It is possible that some will not be sold, and that they
will have to be liquidated, which would raise the number of employees whose redundancy may
be financed by the loan.
*       SOEs sold by the asset sale method are anticipated to have 29%  of the affected
employees, but will absorb approximately 44% of the estimated costs of this component. This
disparity arises from the assumption that the severance pay due to workers laid off by a new
owner who purchases an SOE using the block sale method will finance the cost of any severance
pay owing.
*       Of the 39 enterprises, four enterprises employing 5905 of the employees whose
redundancy is expected to be financed by the loan, are mono-enterprises. They are steel plants,
mines and forestry complexes. The remainder (5% of affected employees) are in diverse
12



economies, and the remainder (83%) are in enterprises which operate in many locations
throughout Turkey, and which have been classified as national enterprises.
*         Classified by industrial sector, the number of employees affected is as follows: Petroleum
and petrochemical (7%), agri-business (59%), services including electricity distribution and the
telephone company (19%), heavy manufacturing and extractive (13%), and light manufacturing
(2%).
*         Twenty two percent of the employees affected work for SOEs which will shed less than
25% of their pre-privatization labor force. Most (63%) are employed by enterprises which are
expected to declare between 26% and 50% of their employees redundant. The remainder, (15%)
are currently working in enterprises where the redundancy rate is expected to be between 51%
and 100%.
Table 2: Turkey Privatization Social Support Project
Labor Redeployment Fund Cost Estimntet
Cost (U580)        --_-
Unit Cost per   Pamnt of    Nuniber of                      Percent     Bank       Govesnunent
Program           UnitpCot  Pe r tidpa of   Padpat              Toaof         o  oa    Fundine         Flnncece
nPajldpant         c         N=br dd636                     Cost       (70%s)        (30/)
Job Counseling                                 70.00     36%               11,520             806        3           564           242
Retraiineg'                                 1,200.00      35%              11,200          13,440       52         9,408          4,032
Temnio-yConnmunityErnployment               1,900.00      11%               3,520           6,688       26         4,682          2,006
Small Business Technical Assistance           472.00     100/,              3,200           1,510        6         1,057           453
Small Business Icubats                      1,000.00      6%                1,920           1,920        7         1,344           576
Contingw&y                            _                                                     1,5001       6         1,050           450
=__________  ___________  32,0002     25,865       100        18,105         7,759
'Cost estmates are based on assmtions of planglm costs and take up in Twiey and other cotmlnies. Howvcr, actual demand and cost of services rmay vary
beten prgoramm  Thadoe, there is no specific allocation by pogrnm, and as such, the find is to be treated as one entity with the total budget of
approxinutyUS25,865,000.
2Assuon is that about 1/3 of the apwinatel48,000 of laid off SOE workers will picipate (16,000) plus an additional 16,000 of other wniployed
affected by the Econoniic Recovay Progran equals apprximnately 32,000 workers.
'Sev enty percent of Bank Funding mnutiplied by Ttal Cost.
'Thirty pent of GovenTent Fnanced multiplied by Total Cost.
'Based on avage duration of 6 months and nimmmn wage of 90,000,000 TL per rnonth plus training costs.
13



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The following project components have been identified by the Bank project team, in
consultation with Government officials, during the Economic Reform Loan sector work and
during PSSP preparation and appraisal in July 2000. The primary implementing agency is the
Privatization Administration (PA) for all components.
(a)   Job Loss Compensation: The objective of this component is to improve the
productivity of certain elements of Turkey's industrial sector (previously state-owned
enterprises) and to ameliorate the temporary negative social and economic impact of job loss
compensation on workers displaced during privatization of SOEs. This component will finance
severance and related payments, as regulated by law, to workers displaced by job loss due to
privatization of SOEs.
(b)   Labor Redeployment Services: The objective of this component is to provide labor
redeployment services to workers who have been displaced by the privatization of SOEs,
including secondary layoffs, to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor market. The
component will finance: (i) technical assistance and minor goods to develop and maintain
administrative procedures between PA and other lead agencies, including the Turkish
Employment Agency (ISKUTR) and the Small and Medium Industry Development Agency
(KOSGEB) which will facilitate the assessment and planning for delivery of services to workers
in 39 SOEs being privatized; and (ii) the actual cost of delivering labor redeployment services to
approximately 32,000 unemployed workers through sub-contractors to the two lead agencies
(i.e., ISK'UR, KOSGEB).
(c)   Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: The objective of this component is to
monitor the social impact of the economic reform program and assist with the design and
formulation of supportive economic and social policies. The component will finance: (i) surveys
to monitor the general social impact of the ERP and privatization on selected communities; (ii)
analysis of social issues and identification of policy alternatives to develop a national social
assistance program, based on review of international experience as it might be used in the
Turkish environment; (iii) follow-up surveys to determine the economic status and coping
strategies of workers directly displaced from SOEs; and (iv) follow-up surveys to monitor the net
impact of labor redeployment programs.
(d)   Project Management: The objective of this component is to ensure effective
administration and coordination of the overall project program, financial accounts, and
procurement. The component will finance technical assistance and minor goods to: (i)
coordinate project execution, and manage the resources of the project; (ii) procure all Bank-
financed goods and services for implementing agencies; (iii) operate the financial management
14



system according to the Bank's financial management requirements; (iv) act as liaison between
the technical agencies and the World Bank; and (v) ensure that annual audits are completed in
keeping with Bank standards.
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component               Sector          Costs      % of   Financing    Bank-
_______________   (IS$,M)   Total    (US$M)   Financing
A. Job Loss              Labor Markets &         322.4    90.7      225.7       90.3
Compensation             Employment
B. Labor Redeployment    Labor Markets &          28.3     8.0       20.2        8.0
Employment                    I
C. Social Impact of      Other Social Sector       1.0     0.3        0.9        0.4
Economic Reform Program
D. Project Management                              1.1     0.3        0.7        0.3
Total Project Costs                       352.8    99.3       247.5      S99.0
Front End Fee                                      2.5     0.7         2.5        1.0
Total Financing Required                        355.3   100.0       250.0      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Although this is not primarily a policy or institutional reform project, it complements and
supports policy reforms supported by the ERL which is currently under implementation. The
proposed PSSP also supports a review of options to create a more comprehensive social
assistance program that should lead to strengthening of the social safety net in Turkey. Social
impact studies carried out under the Social Impact of Economic Reform component will evaluate
the social impact of the ERP on sectors and communities; identify policy options for a national
social assistance system; and identify the social impact on workers displaced by privatization.
These latter studies will provide input for midstream adjustment of the job loss compensation
and labor redeployment programs and related institutional reforms, based on the identification of
vulnerable groups.
3. Benefits and target population:
The primary benefits will be to: (a) improve the productivity of former state-owned
enterprises, through shedding of excess labor; (b) ensure that workers displaced by SOE
restructuring do not fall into poverty, by provision of temporary income support; (b) expedite the
return of workers displaced by privatization and the economic reform program back into the
labor market, by provision of labor redeployment services; and (c) identify alternatives to
improve social assistance programs and build a more comprehensive social safety net in Turkey.
The primary target group is workers directly displaced by SOE privatization and the Economic
Reform Program. In addition, the social impact programs will improve related institutional
capacity and the ability to evaluate the impact and use of public funds in involved agencies and
in Turkey in general.
15



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The following paragraphs, and Figure 1, summarize the overall organization of the
project and agencies involved. More detailed information is contained in the Project Operational
Manual (POM) and Annex 6(A) and (B). The signatory to the Loan Agreement will be the
Undersecretariat of the Treasury. The primary implementing agency will be the Privatization
Administration (PA) under the Prime Minister's Office. Technical implementation of the Job
Loss Compensation and Labor Redeployment Services components of the project will be
managed by a technical Labor Assistance Group (LAG) at PA. Technical implementation of the
Social Impact of Economic Reform Program component will be carried out by EKA at Treasury.
Administrative operations will be handled by a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) with Financial
and Procurement/Reporting Departments at PA. The LAG and PCU Departments will be headed
by civil servants. The Financial Department Head at the PCU who will serve as Coordinator of
the PCU will be the primary point of liaison with the Bank. The following summarizes
implementation for each separate component (see the POM, Section I, for detailed procedures).
(a)   Job Loss Compensation: The PA will identify SOEs qualifying for 70% Bank financing
ofjob loss compensation based on two criteria agreed with the Bank, and will notify the Bank
concerning the name of the enterprise and approximate number of qualifying workers prior to
making severance payments, and verify that the SOEs involved meet the agreed criteria, and that
agreed procedures have been followed in calculating the payments (additions and subtractions to
the initially agreed list of 39 SOEs are to be agreed with the Bank). The first criterion is that the
payment of severance is an investment and the second is that the payment of severance is an
appropriate use ofpublicfunds.
(i)   Investment Criteria: Each of the following points must be met to fulfill the
investment criteria:
(a)   That the payment ofjob loss compensation results in a positive rate of
return for a specific SOE or a sector. A positive rate of return must be
demonstrated within a four year period. This is to say, the reduction in the
number of employees must result in a decrease in overall operating costs
without a corresponding loss in production (e.g., if 50% of workers are
laid off, production must not decrease by an equal amount). The output
per person must increase. This criterion can be applied at the firm or
sector level where a sector is defined as a group of firms producing similar
output, such as the petro-chemical industry.
(b)   That the investment is in accordance with Turkey's general economic
development strategy. The Government of Turkey is pursuing an
industrial strategy and five year plan focusing on modernization, increased
use of technology, and privatization. One example of this is with respect
to the steel industry where the Govermment actively supports the shifting
of production from long steel to flat steel. The latter is used in the
16



production of items such as automobiles and appliances, both of which
have been major areas of export growth. Another example is with respect
to the Government's strategy to modernize the textile industry. The
Ministry of Industry has primary responsibility for outlining the
Government's industrial strategy. The PA must remain current on what
the Government strategies entail and must ensure, prior to making
severance payments to particular SOEs, that this investment is consistent
with the Government strategy.
(c)   That the investment will lead to an overall increase to either production,
profits or exports at the enterprise or sector level. Point one above
focuses on output per worker but in addition to this criterion, it is
necessary that the enterprise provides a business plan that demonstrates
that the investment in job loss compensation will lead to an increase in
production, profits or exports. In many cases, the business plan proposed
by the buyer and outlined in the sale document will address all three
points. (It was also noted that consultant reports are commissioned prior
to each sale to help determine the sale price and the future of the SOE.
These reports may also contain information to help verify this
requirement.) If the firm (or sector) can demonstrate a probable increase:
in any of these three areas, it will point to a positive return on investment.
If this is not demonstrated, the payment ofjob loss compensation cannot
be financed by the PSSP loan.
(ii)    Use of Public Funds Criteria: The second broad criterion is that the investment of
severance is an appropriate use of public funds and it is not feasible for the new
owner to make such payments:
(a)   Where the amount of redundancies would bring the discounted price of the
sale of the SOE below zero;
(b)   The enterprise is in a mono-enterprise community; or
(c)   Where redundancies are so significant, no investor is prepared to risk the
damage to its reputation (moral hazard), or other risk as agreed with the
Bank.
* Making Job Loss Compensation Payments: The PA will provide financing to: (i) SOEs
which will make regular severance payments; (ii) ISKUR which will make special job loss
compensation payments; and (iii) the State Pension Administration (ES) which will make
retirement social assistance payments according to procedures agreed with the Bank.
* Replenishment Applications from the PA: The LAG at PA will prepare reports for the PClJ
based on information submitted to LAG by the SOEs, ISKUR, and ES on the three
17



categories of payments made under the Job Loss Compensation component of the PSSP.
Supporting documentation will include, at a minimum, the certification by the PA that:
(i)   the Government certifies that the payments meet the investment and use ofpublic
funds criteria for use of Bank Project funds;
(ii)  the three categories of separation payments have been made in accordance with
the documents originally submitted by the enterprise;
(iii) the calculations are consistent with entitlements as set out in the Labor Law 1475
for severance payments; Privatization Law 4046, Article 22 for special job loss
compensation, and Privatization Law 4046, Article 46 for retirement social
assistance; and
(iv)  the procedures established by the PA to ensure a transparent, arms length sale to
one or more private sector purchasers have been adhered to with regard to the
qualifying SOE, and procedures defined in the Agreement of Sale are being
implemented. Key steps in the process include:
*  Authorization of the Privatization High Commission to include a SOE in the
portfolio of the PA
*  Collection and analysis of data on the SOE by the PA
*  Selection of Advisors and preparation of advisory analysis and reports
*  Determination of an appropriate privatization strategy for the SOE
*  Tender procedures, approval, and closing the sale transaction
-  Follow up as necessary by the PA
-  Implementation of the environmental safeguards and levels of
employment defined in the Agreement of Sale
Of these, the offering process and the selection of a successful bidder and implementation
of articles of the Agreement of Sale are the most critical.
(b)   Labor Redeployment: This component will be coordinated by the Labor Assistance
Group within the PA, in close cooperation with ISKUR and KOSGEB. The LAG will be
responsible for: (i) developing and maintaining the administrative framework for the Labor
Redeployment Program (LRP); (ii) taking the lead role, in cooperation with representatives from
two lead Agencies, unions, SOE management, and community leaders to organize in-plant labor
redeployment assessment and planning sessions for workers; and (iii) providing ongoing
monitoring of the delivery of labor redeployment services being administered by the two lead
agencies. Actual delivery of labor redeployment services is to be contracted to local services
providers in keeping with the POM LRP Field Implementation Manual as agreed with the Bank.
The LAG consultants will be procured through one Technical Assistance (TA) contractor. In
addition, this TA contractor will provide one consultant to manage the Job Loss Compensation
component (see previous component).
18



Each Lead Agency will establish an intemal labor redeployment services account with
local (Government) funds to finance sub-contracted services (the amount budgeted should be
approximately 30% of expected annual expenditures as the project will reimburse 70% of
expenditures). Lead Agencies will pay contractors, summarize invoices paid on a monthly or as
needed basis, and request reimbursement from the LAG at PA. The PA will request, via the
PCU, that the lead agency labor services account be replenished from the PSSP Special Account.
The PCU will then prepare a Statement of Expenditure and submit it to the World Bank for
replenishment of the Special Account as needed (replenishment will be at 70% of the total
amount of labor redeployment services paid as defined in the Project Loan Agreement).
(c)   Social Impact of Economic Reform Program: The five studies under this component will
be managed by the EKA at Treasury, in cooperation with the Tripartite Advisory Committee.
Technical assistance to implement the five studies will be procured from three independent firms
by the EKA at Treasury with procurement support from the PCU.
(d)   Project Management: Overall project management will be carried out by the
Privatization Administration (PA), which will be the primary implementing agency for this
project over its four year duration. The Project Coordination Unit will be established at the PA,
and will be headed by PCU Department Heads, with civil service status, who will report directly
to the Vice President of the PA. The PCU Department Heads will be responsible for
coordinating the project activities, specifically the overall "business office" functions of project
management and all liaison with the Bank and the Labor Assistance Group. The PCU will
comprise two distinct departments: (i) Financial Management Department, and (ii) Procurement
and Reporting Department. The Department Head of Financial Management Department will
serve as the Coordinator of the PCU for purposes of project operations and will be the primary
point of contact with the Bank. The PCU will be supported by three long-term local staff
consultants (i.e., financial officer, procurement officer, reporting and communication specialist),
a secretary, and translator/interpreter, plus a short tern international project management
consultant. There will be an overall Tripartite Advisory Committee established for the project,
consisting of representatives of Government, including Treasury, Privatization Administration,
SPO, SIS, KOSGEB, ISKUR; from employers (e.g., TISK, TOBB), and unions.
Project financial and reporting/procurement assessments were completed by the Bank
FMS and PAS during appraisal, and action plans have been developed to ensure that adequate
financial and reporting management systems are in place prior to Board Presentation of the
Project. The PCU will be responsible for ensuring that the financial statements, Special
Account, and SOEs are audited annually by an auditor, acceptable to the Bank, and in
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank. In keeping with existing practice, the
Turkish Government will complete the project audits. Standard disbursement procedures,
including the use of the Special Account and SOEs, will be used. Quarterly Project Managemeant
Reports (PMRs) will be made. It is not expected that the proposed Project will qualify, initially,
for PM- based disbursements. However, a plan for achieving this status has been agreed with
Government. More detailed information is contained in Annex 6 (A) and (B) of this document
and the Project Operational Manual (POM).
19



Figure 1: Turkey Privatization Social Support Project
Project Organization
World Bank                                    D Loan Agrepamt     Hd  Underscretariat of Treasury
Financial Management Specialist (I-c)         Procurement-Specialist (.-c)
F Spccial Account                             Privatization Administration (PA)                       r;:  TrmntpartitecAdvisoryt(o- nmitte (  
Vice President
Loss  Social  Severance                                                                       W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ocilIpc  fEooi
L I ~~~~~~Project Coordination Uni _PU                                        ReomPormEATesr
Labor Assistance Group (LAG)
Department Hoad (It-cs)                 Financial Department               Procurement/Reporting Department                    3 TA
. Coord rDepartment Head (I-cs)                                          Department Hcad (I-cs)
Financial Managemcnt Specialist (I -c)  .     Procurcment Specialist (1-c)
Reporting/Commnunications Specialist (1-c)
Translator/Interpreter (1-c)
Secretary (I -c)
Seeac Spcals .1    i                                             Labor Redeployment Planning Specialists (2-c)
Severance Speclahst ( I -c)                    ~~~Labor Redeployment Delivery Specialists (3-c)
_                                     !        ~~~~ ~       ~~~                                   ~    ~~~~(in KOSGEB  (in ISKUR)l
Slfice                                                                 Locil Of fices
Providers                                                                SeTvice
Svpecial Job      r etirement || Regular                    IPoidr
| Loss    ||        Social    ||Severance  | | Wres                                                                          | Workers |
|Compen-  ||Assistance  |l             for     lS 
sation for      | for Civil   || Workcrs |
|Workers   || Servants ||l
Numbcrs in brackets indicate staffing of units: cs means civil servant; c means consultant.
*PCU Coordinator



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There is a need to identify Government resources and alternatives to ensure that labor
shedding occurs as SOEs are privatized, and that productivity increases, and to cushion the s,ocial
impact caused by the economic reform program and the aftermath of the earthquake. With
respect to labor shedding during privatization, the two major options are: (a) selling enterprises
with labor, and letting the buyer deal with labor shedding, or (b) supporting labor shedding prior
to and at the point of sale of the SOEs. The two alternatives have already been presented in
some detail in Section B3, and the approach selected for job loss compensation and layoffs will
be a blend of the two approaches, investor-driven and government-assisted, depending on the
SOE involved. The Bank and Government will agree on two criteria for use of Loan funds: (a)
the payment of severance at the point of sale will result in productivity increases due to savings
on labor costs, and these savings will be greater than the cost of severance payments; and (b) the
use of loan funds to finance severance will be justified based on the characteristics of enterprise
involved (e.g., large number of layoffs, mono-enterprise community, etc.). The alternative of
always using investor-driven layoffs for all SOEs was rejected because this would make somae
enterprises un-salable due to large amounts of excess labor that could drive the sale price to a
negative value, because of strong union reaction, and because of the moral hazard to the buyer as
well as to the Government if it were perceived as not being sensitive to layoff of state employees.
With regard to design and financing of specific social support programs, it is recognized
that Government resources are stretched because of the rapidly developing economic reform
program and the aftermath of the earthquake, which not only slowed the economy but required
considerable allocation of resources. Several options have been considered for social support,
including: (a) targeting all social support resources to one activity (e.g., temporary income
support or labor redeployment), although experience shows that a combined approach has
benefits; (b) looking for alternative resources from other bilateral or multilateral donors, but none
has expressed interest in providing resources of the nature proposed for the PSSP; and (c)
targeting the use of available resources to specifically identified groups to maximize impact.
Faced with fiscal restraints and broad program choices, the proposed operation will primarilly
finance two activities: (a) job loss compensation payments to support privatization and labor
shedding, by providing temporary income support (severance payments), and (b) a labor
redeployment services to provide labor services to assist displaced workers to return rapidly to
the labor market. The first fund will be directed only to workers affected by privatization, but
the second will address workers affected by privatization as well as the broader economic reform
program, with the understanding that some of these displaced workers, including secondary
layoffs from privatization, will need labor redeployment services. It is noted that the Bank has a
current operation, the Employment and Training Project, that is providing support to the general
unemployed, and a portion of this activity was reprogrammed in August 1999 to assist workers
displaced by the earthquake. However, this project terminates in December 2000.
With regard to the PSSP Job Loss Compensation payments, six alternatives were
considered, of which only three (*) are supported by the proposed PSSP.
21



* Unemployment Benefits: These payments cannot be financed by Bank investment projects.
However, Turkey does have an emergency unemployment benefit which will become
effective in June 2000, and payments can begin for qualifying workers in March 2002, but
will not be of immediate benefit to workers affected by restructuring. The fund is financed
by a 7% payroll tax paid by the state, government and employee, and benefits are 50% of the
average of the four months salary and for a maximum of ten months.
* Social Assistance. Social assistance payments act as a safety net for those who do not qualify
for, or who have exhausted, regular unemployment benefits. Social assistance payments are
often means-tested, or are based on combined indicator targeting (proxy means-testing), are
household based, and are linked to poverty lines. Turkey does not have a formal social
assistance or poverty benefit as such. This is a gap in Turkey's social protection system, and
piloting a poverty benefit was considered for inclusion in this project. However, instituting a
poverty benefit is a complex task which requires up-to-date household survey information in
order to set the poverty line and determine who is poor as well as a developed local
government infrastructure for client in-take and benefit pay-out. The time and expense of a
poverty benefit system made it problematic for inclusion in this operation which is focused
on providing immediate job loss compensation and labor redeployment services to workers
displaced from privatization of SOEs. Instead, the proposed PSSP finances technical
assistance to assess the current needs and to identify possible alternatives for social
assistance in the future.
* Individual Pension Accounts: These payments amount to a contribution defined pension or
unemployment benefit system where each worker deposits a portion of his/her salary in an
interest bearing account, and in the case ofjob loss or voluntary separation, he/she can
withdraw from the account. Such systems, which are sometimes found in Latin America,
support labor mobility, and make workers directly aware of the consequences of poor job
performance, but may not compensate workers adequately when job loss is beyond their
control. Turkey does not have such a system and the PSSP does not support such payments.
* Regular Severance: Turkey has had a system for some time whereby a worker gets one
month of severance pay for each year worked up to a maximum of twelve years if he or she
is displaced during job loss compensation. This system is theoretically financed by
enterprises, but if a state-owned enterprise enters bankruptcy and is liquidated, the
Government becomes liable. Such systems provide some worker protection in the absence of
a formal unemployment benefit system. The proposed PSSP will finance these payments to
workers laid off by SOE privatization.
*  Special Job Loss Compensation: These payments are in addition to regular severance pay,
and are designed to encourage workers to leave overstaffed SOEs. Payments range from 1-2
years, depending on conditions and length of service, and payments should be paid on a lump
sum basis to encourage investment and not consumption. Payments normally decline in size
over time to increase initial impact. Turkey has used this instrument in the past to support
job loss compensation during privatization. It is called the "Job Loss Compensation
Payment", is defined in the Privatization Law Number 4046, and provides up to eight months
of salary payments based on years of service. However, the payments were not made in a
lump sum in the past. This discouraged investment and had the effect of delaying worker re-
22



entry to the workforce, since payments were stopped if a worker took employment. The
proposed PSSP will finance these payments.
* Social Assistance/Early Retirement: This instrument can have a negative effect on an
already indebted social security system. Turkey is in the midst of reforming the pension
system to reduce options for early retirement and to raise the pension age. It should be noted
that this option may also become more expensive than lump sum if it is extended to many
people, and as such should only be applied to workers very near retirement. An alternative is
to provide * "social assistance payments" to workers who are near voluntary retirement age
to encourage them to take retirement, as opposed to remaining in SOEs. Turkey has this
program available for civil servants. The proposed PSSP will finance eligible workers to
help ensure that they leave the civil service when eligible and not just transfer to other SiOEs
or other government service. However, the proposed PSSP does not finance a general early
retirement program because of the fiscal implications.
With regard to labor redeployment services, a range of measures to address frictional and
structural employment, as well as lack of demand for labor, have been identified for financing.
The menu of programs, and background information and references on their impact, have already
been outlined in Section B3. Multiple, as opposed to single focus, programs are being financed
because of the varied demographics of the unemployed and differing economic conditions in the
communities affected by privatization and economic reform. Programs will be demand-driven,
and based on the needs of displaced workers and communities.
The use of the Adaptable Program Lending (APL), versus a Standard Investment Loan,
was considered and rejected by the Bank. The proposed PSSP is directly linked to the ERL,
which is to be implemented in three years, is moving forward on schedule, and the team is
confident that this progress will continue.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Sector Issue                    Project           Latest Supervision
(PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financedprojects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                               Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Economic Reform                     Economic Reform            NA          NA,
Privatization and Job Loss Compensation   PIAL                  U           U
Unemployment, Institutional Development  Employment and Training  S         U
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
As noted previously, in Section B3, there is considerable international experience and
lessons to be learned. However, the design and use of social support programs varies
considerably among countries and is greatly influenced by the economic environment, including
23



the level of unemployment, and the type of general social support programs already in place in
the country where economic restructuring is occurring. Specific lessons of experience can be
drawn from: (a) previous work in Turkey; (b) regional experience, including similar operations
in Macedonia, Romania, Poland, and Bosnia; and (c) other regions and countries.
Turkey has experience in operating both job loss compensation (severance) and labor
redeployment programs with its own funds, as well as under the PIAL and ETP. The key lesson
learned under PIAL is that the Government and Bank should first reach agreement that
privatization will proceed before implementing a social support program. If privatization does
not, there is little use in creating a social support program for displaced workers and incurring
related loan commitment fees when privatization is stalled and few workers are displaced, as
happened under PIAL. This hurdle appears to be passed in Turkey with negotiation of the
Economic Reform Loan. A second lesson learned in both Turkey and other countries, is that the
administration of social support programs for workers being displaced by privatization is best
centered in one agency which has a direct and personal interest in ensuring that the program
operates. Given that the proposed Project will be fully coordinated by the Privatization Agency,
which has requested and agreed to this role, the concern over fragmented implementation has
effectively been addressed.
With regard to income support and severance payments, lessons from Turkey and other
countries, including research in the United States, indicate that it may be better to provide
workers the option for job loss compensation in tranches or as a lump sum, as anticipated under
the PSSP, as opposed to using only monthly payments - the severance payments anticipated
under the projects combine both approaches, with regular severance being paid in a lump sum
and special job loss compensation being paid monthly like an unemployment benefit (which is
not yet available to displaced workers in Turkey). This combination is acceptable. The second
lesson is the need to address equity between sectors with regard to income support severance
payments. If these payments are designed on a sector by sector basis, a strong sector (e.g.,
mining) may negotiate high payments that set a precedent that other sectors may want but may
not be affordable. This, to some extent, happened in Romania, but has been avoided thus far in
Turkey, where a generic basic and extended income support package has been negotiated for all
enterprises being privatized.
With regard to labor redeployment programs, there has been considerable experience, in
Turkey under PIAL and ETF, and in parallel operations in Romania, Poland, Macedonia, and
Bosnia as well as via the previously referenced quasi-experimental design studies of the net
impact of these programs. Experience in Turkey and other countries indicates that these services
are normally used by about one-third to one-half of displaced workers and are relatively low cost
(e.g., averaging US$750-1,000 per worker) as compared with income support payments. The
first lesson is that these programs must be carefully refined and targeted to maximize impact.
For example, temporary community employment programs should be operated by private or
NGO Enterprises, as opposed to public entities, to improve post-program job placement and
employment. A second key lesson is that: (a) labor redeployment services should be sub-
contracted on a competitive basis to local services providers which deliver services on a
performance contract basis; (b) contracts should include pre-negotiated job placement rates as
appropriate with related financial incentives; and (c) payments should be based on agreed unit
costs per client actually served. A third lesson is that services should be made available for
directly displaced workers, plus secondary layoffs, particularly in mono-enterprise communities
24



where secondary layoffs can sometimes be as or more devastating than primary layoffs among
well-paid workers from SOEs.
Last but not least, ongoing monitoring of social impact is critical to evaluate the impact
on individual displaced workers and the community in general, and to evaluate the impact of
labor programs on these workers and communities, so that refinements can be made in mid-
stream. Such monitoring systems are already being used in privatization and restructuring
projects in Macedonia, Poland, and Bosnia. The experience gained in implementing these
programs (e.g., interview versus mail survey techniques are needed) will be integrated into the
PSSP which will include multiple social impact programs.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The privatization program is going forward as scheduled. The Government has req[uested
financing for social support programs to support the economic reform program, and in particular
the privatization of SOEs. The implementing agency (PA) has taken a strong lead role in
organizing meetings and responding to mission requests for information. Intensive discussions
concerning alternative programs, costs, and targeting have already been held during project
preparation and pre-appraisal, and previously in parallel with preparation of the ERL. The latter
resulted in the development of a sector paper titled Policy Options to address the Social Impact
of Economic Reform, February 17, 2000 which was updated during the July 2000 appraisal
mission. The Government, during the-wrap-up meeting on the appraisal mission, agreed to a
specific set of next steps to facilitate negotiations, and assisted in arranging formal meetings with
key stakeholders. Information for development of this PAD, and a parallel Project Operatlional
Manual (POM), were defined during the appraisal mission. The PA has already identified and
assigned the three full time department heads to lead project implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The key added value of Bank support will be the financial resources to allow the
Government to continue with privatization of SOEs, and specifically to facilitate shedding of
excess labor to improve productivity of these enterprises as they are privatized. The Bank is also
in a strong position, due to its related work in Turkey (e.g., ERL, PLAL and ETP) and the region
(e.g., Romania, Macedonia, and Poland) to ensure that criteria and procedures used to apply
these resources are efficient and effective, and result in resources getting to those who qualify for
them.
E. Summary Project Analyses (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (See Annex 4)
LI Cost Benefit          NPV = US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
E Cost Effectiveness
LI Other (Specify)
As noted previously (Section B2), the ERP is expected to have a positive impact on
people's lives, but there will be some areas of increased difficulty. The first major benefit of the
ERP will be a reduction in inflation and in the costs of adjustment to inflation. A second benefit
25



will be the resumption of economic growth. Economic growth is one of the best ways to help
people escape poverty because growth leads to more jobs and higher incomes. A third aspect of
the economic reform program, changes in relative process and some taxation rates for basic
goods, will affect the entire population but will be especially significant for the vulnerable (see
sector paper Policy Options to Address the Social Impact of Economic Reform - Turkey,
February 17, 2000).
However, one of the main groups negatively affected by the reforms will be workers laid-
off from privatization of state-owned enterprises, and as a result of the general economic reform
program. Successful privatization in Turkey requires effective programs to ease the social costs
of large-scale layoffs. A review of twelve case studies of enterprise divestiture in Europe, Latin
America, and Asia indicated that workers, as a class, did not lose by divestiture, but that
individual workers could be worse off, especially when layoffs or reduced hiring were involved,
as they will be in Turkey. The current retention of excess labor lowers labor productivity,
increases enterprise losses, impedes enterprise restructuring, delays the potential reallocation of
labor to productive alternative employment, and consumes state budget resources in the form of
direct or indirect subsidies. The total cost of these subsidies, including ongoing salary payments,
can exceed by a significant margin the one time cost of severance and labor redeployment
services.
Job Loss Compensation (Severance): The proposed PSSP is directly linked with the
Government of Turkey's overall economic reform program which will structurally transform the
Turkish economy by reducing state involvement and advancing market reforms. Many state-
owned enterprises are characterized by low productivity-low output per worker. This PSSP
will help improve the productivity of certain segments of the Turkish industrial sector (in
accordance with paragraph 3 of the Bank Operational Memorandum on Financing Severance Pay
in Public Enterprises Reform Operations, dated March 5, 1996, which states that "severance pay
should be an integral part of the project aimed to make an enterprise or sector more productive").
The following three criteria must be met prior to the investment of severance being made: (a)
that the payment of severance results in a positive rate of return (within a four year period) for a
specific SOE or sector. This is to say, the reduction in the number of employees must result in a
decrease in overall operating costs without a corresponding loss in production; (b) that the
investment is in accordance with Turkey's industrial strategy; and (c) that the investment will
lead to an overall increase in either production, profits or exports. To gain a complete
understanding of post-privatization productivity gains, it is important to keep in mind that many
SOEs are losing significant amounts of money. These losses are a drain on the economy as
shown in the public sector deficits. The result is higher inflation and higher interest rates, and in
general, less private sector investment than there would be otherwise (crowding out). Less
investment means a reduced growth in productivity.
Productivity increases lead to higher corporate profits and ultimately higher wages and
corresponding improvements in living standards. Increased profits also tend to increase the level
of investment and the creation of new jobs. Based on this fundamental principle, and the need to
justijy use ofpublicfundsforjob loss compensation, the following two criteria must also be met
by SOEs to use PSSP Bankfinancingfor job loss compensation (severance):
* SOEs must demonstrate a positive rate of return on the investment in severance. These
financial and economic criteria can be applied at the firm or sector level. A model has been
26



developed to make the calculations. The model was applied and tested on two specific SOEs
prior to negotiations. Details are included in the Project Operational Manual.
* There must be evidence that the payment of severance is an appropriate use of public funds
and where it is not feasible for the new owner to make such payments according to one or
more of the following criteria: (a) where the amount of redundancies would bring the
discounted price below zero; (b) where the enterprise is in a mono-enterprise community;
and (c) where redundancies are so significant, no investor is prepared to risk the damage to
its reputation and investment (moral hazard), or other risk agreed with the Bank.
Labor Redeployment: The basic economic rationale is that moving workers, via labor
redeployment programs, from jobs where they are not productive and receive public subsidies to
jobs where they are productive and do not receive public subsidies reduces public budget outlays
and increases GDP. At the same time, GDP will increase to the extent that the jobs filled by
redeployed workers are new jobs or higher productivity jobs than participants held previously.
The sub-component finances specific services to: (a) improve labor mobility and address
frictional unemployment; (b) enhance and change human capital, via retraining, to address
structural unemployment and improve productivity; and (c) address the lack of demandfor
labor, including support to individuals to help them start and maintain micro and small
businesses, and to communities to implement temporary community employment schemes and
design local economic development plans. Since ex-ante cost benefit analysis is not possible',
the component will be monitored for cost-effectiveness. The Project provides for monitoring of
the status of program participants relative to their post-program employment status, earnings, and
receipt of continued public income support payments. Specialized counseling, requalification
training, and improved job placement services have been found to raise productivity by bringing
about more efficient matching of job seekers and the skill requirements of existing jobs (OECD
Employment Outlook, 1993, page ix). It is anticipated that the gross impact of the services will
equal or exceed those found in the study: "Evaluating the Impact of Active Labor Programs:
Results of Cross Country Studies in Europe and Central Asia " (World Bank Discussion Paper,
June 1999), and that post-program employment will be a minimum of 10% after receipt of
employment services (provided enabling legislation in Parliament is passed), an average of 160%
for participants in retraining programs, 10% of employment in temporary community
employment programs, 5% of those who make initial contact for assistance in starting small
businesses will actually start businesses, and 90% of those entering business incubators will
continue to operate a small business at the end of one year.
2. Financial (see Annex 5)
NPV = US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The proposed loan of US$250.0 million will cover approximately 70% of total project
costs. The majority of Government contribution is contained in the 30% match required for job
loss compensation (severance), and labor redeployment services. Financing for job loss
compensation makes up 91% of total project costs, labor redeployment 8%, and the social impact
of economic reform and project management the remainder, about 1/2%. Co-financing is not
anticipated. The project is expected to be completed and disbursed in four years.
However, it should be noted that a study of the net impact of past programs is included in the proposed F'SSP.
27



Fiscal Impact
The PSSP will have a large positive net fiscal benefit by supporting implementation of
the Government's privatization program which is a cornerstone of its disinflation strategy. The
program is targeted to generate some US$7.6 billion in cash privatization revenues in 2000 and a
cumulative total of approximately US$18 billion over the 2000-2002 period (including
telecommunications and energy). The Government has agreed with the IMF to earmark the
majority of privatization revenues generated in 2000-2002 to pay down the stock of public debt,
in particular short-term "cash" debt (i.e., domestic government securities) which bear high rates
of interest. Under the disinflation program, the stock of public debt is targeted to fall as a share
of GNP from an estimated 58% of 1999 to under 55% by 2002; in parallel, the stock of cash debt
would fall from 24% to about 20%. The structure of the privatization program for 2000 is
presented in Table 1 below. The program has three pillars: telecommunications, energy, and the
SOE privatization agenda of the Privatization Administration.
Table 1: Privatization Program for 2000
(January 2000)
Proceeds from the PA's portfolio           75     1,100      925     1,000    3,100
To be used by the PA                      28       84       232      422       766
To beused by the PPF                      14      168       180       94       456
To beused by the Budget                   33      848       513      484      1,878
Proceeds from energy and telecom            0     1,000      367     3,133    4,500
GSM licenses                               0     1,000        0        0      1,000
Turktelecom                                0        0         0     2,400    2,400
Power plants/distribution grids            0        0       367      733      1,100
TOTAL                                      75     2,100    1,292     4,133    7,600
Of which to the Budget                   33      1,848      880     3,617    6,378
Source: Treasury and IMF.
The PA's state-owned enterprise privatization agenda is directly supported by the PSSP.
The PA is aiming to divest companies and assets worth a total of US$5.2 billion in 2000, of
which US$3.1 billion should be received in cash during the year. The quarterly breakdown of
the PA's program for 2000 is presented in Table 2. While the PA's program for 2001-2002 has
yet to be finalized, it is expected to be similar in magnitude to the 2000 agenda. By helping to
ensure that the PA can deliver its full program, not only in 2000 but over the full 2000-2002
period of the ERP, the expected fiscal benefit of the PSSP will greatly surpass the level of
resources made available under the World Bank loan.
28



Table 2: Privatization Program Under Privatization Administration
(January 2000)
2000/Q1             2000/Q2             2000/Q3              20001Q4
Deniz Nakliyat      POAS (block)        ATAKOY Marina        ERDEMIR (IPO)
ORUS (asset sale)   TUPRAS (IPO)        ATAKOY Hotel         TUPRAS (block/IPO)
Ankara Insurance    PETKIM Yarimca      THY (block)          PETKIM (block / IPO)
Guven Insurance     ISDEMIR             TUGSAS               ATAKOY Tourism
Asil Celik          KBI (block)         IGSAS                Participations
EBAS (asset sale)   SEKA (asset)        Quoted Shares
KBI (asset sale)    SUMER HOL. (asset)  Participations
TAKSAN              TRABZON Port.
TURBAN (asset sale)  TUMOSAN
TZDK (asset sale)   Participations
Tenders: $300 million  Tenders: $2.0 billion   Tenders: $  1.4 billion Tenders: $1.5 billion
Cash:  $ 75 million  Cash:  $1.1 billion    Cash:  $925 million  Cash:  $1.0 billion
Source: Privatization Administration
The PSSP's fiscal impact, both during and after implementation, will remain at a
manageable level. As noted, the Government's contribution is approximately 30% (US$47.5
million over three years). Existing legislation allows the Government to use resources frorm the
sale of SOEs to provide matching funds, is currently operating some labor redeployment
programs with these funds, and has successfully implemented similar programs with a simi'lar
level of matching funds under the PIAL. The project does not require long-term down-stream
financing for sustainability, but rather finances one-time severance and labor redeployment
services.
3. Technical
The proposed Project builds on recent sector work which has produced a detailed an1alysis
of the costs of the operation, successful experience in similar operations in neighboring countries
(Macedonia Privatization Social Support Project, Romania Employment and Social Protectiion
Project, Poland Hard Coal Restructuring) and the costs and lessons leamed in the previously
mentioned Turkey PIAL and ETP projects. The two major components of the project, job loss
compensation (severance) and labor redeployment, have multiple internal categories of
expenditure that allow a flexible response to demand within the two funds, and if needed,
adjustments can be made to change allocations between funds based on demand. Cost estimates
for the two major components, severance and labor redeployment, are based on analysis of
displacement of workers from individual SOEs, and actual costs of programs, and have been
carefully reviewed and agreed between the Government and the Bank.
4. Institutional
As noted previously, the proposed Project builds on experience in related Turkish as well
as regional projects. One of the key lessons learned is that the overall management of such
projects is best handled by an agency that is very close to the issues at hand, can use the
operation to directly further its goals, is flexible, and is sufficiently broad in its charter to oversee
the overall project. The Privatization Administration (PA) has agreed to act as the coordinating
29



implementing agency. The PA requested this role, and has current and past experience working
with Bank-financed projects, as well as dealing with the type of operations financed by the
proposed Project. Two key agencies would sign letters of understanding with PA and have day-
to-day responsibility for sub-contracting and managing labor redeployment service providers:
ISKUR for counseling, retraining, and temporary community employment services; and
KOSGEB for small business assistance and incubators. These agencies are quite familiar with
these programs and are implementing them on an ongoing basis, both with Government and
Bank financing. Social impact activities would be contracted directly by PA with an
independent third party technical assistance firm, with review and oversight by related
Government agencies (SPO and SIS).
Two small management groups would be established at PA: one for "back office" project
fiscal, procurement, reporting, and liaison with the Bank (the Project Coordination Unit - PCU),
and a Labor Assistance Group (LAG) which would handle technical monitoring and
administration of the Job Loss Compensation and Labor Redeployment components. The social
impact of economic reform program components would be implemented by EKA. A Tripartite
Advisory Committee would be established to advise on overall policy related to project
implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The primary executing agency for the proposed Project will be the Privatization
Administration (PA). Three entities would continue to be responsible, under general supervision
of the PA, for severance payments: SOEs for regular severance, ISKUR for special job loss
compensation, and ES for retirement social assistance (these agencies are legally required to
make these payments and are currently doing so). Two agencies would sign letters of
understanding with PA and have day-to-day responsibility for contracting and managing labor
redeployment service providers: ISKUR for counseling, retraining, and temporary community
employment services, and KOSGEB for small business assistance and incubators. Social impact
of economic reform program activities, which would be contracted to three independent
contractors, would be under the technical supervision of EKA.
4.2 Project management:
As noted above, the Project will be coordinated by the PA, which has experience with
both Bank-financed projects and the kinds of activities proposed under this Project. A Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established in the PA to provide overall coordination of the
project and work closely with other key agencies involved in the delivery of project activities.
The PCU will comprise a Financial and Procurement/Reporting Department with seven full-time
staff to address management, financial, procurement, and reporting/communication functions.
The Department Heads would be civil servants, and the other five staff would be long term local
consultants financed by the PSSP. In addition, the project will finance short-term international
technical assistance and training to assist with organization and functioning of the PCU. The
PCU will be responsible for facilitation of project implementation, in particular, operating a
sound accounting and financial management (Loan Administration Change Initiative--LACI)
system and producing the required financial statements to monitor eligible expenditures and meet
audit requirements. In addition, as noted in Section E4 previously, a Labor Assistance Group
headed by a civil servant, with support of long-term local consultants financed by the Project,
would be established in the PA to monitor and administer the Job Loss Compensation and Labor
30



Redeployment components, and EKA would supervise the social impact of economic reform
program component. A Tripartite Advisory Committee will be established to advise on policy-
related issues pertaining to implementation of the Project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None
4.4 Financial management issues:
During the appraisal mission, a Financial Management Action Plan was developed, as
outlined below. This action plan has now essentially been completed.
1. Appoint interim Project Accountant to implement financial management system.
2. Evaluate financial management software and sign contract for multi-user site license,
including provision of necessary training.
3. Acquire hardware and system software to run financial management system.
4. Install financial management software.
5. Develop Chart of Accounts.
6. Develop financial policies and procedures.
7. Complete policy manual.
8. Complete review of financial management system.
9. Ensure that bank account has been established.
10. Confirmation by Government that Treasury will conduct audit according to standards
acceptable to the Bank.
Financial Management Risks. The financial management capacity within Turkey has
recently been the subject of a detailed review by the Bank, although this has not yet been
finalized. The latest draft indicates that Turkey has many of the building blocks of good pulblic
sector financial management: an established and respected legal framework, reliable budgeting
and accounting processes, regular reporting of financial results, an independent Supreme Audit
Institution which reports to Parliament, a relatively open system of accountability, free and
vociferous media, and plenty of skilled personnel. But although the building blocks are there,
they have not been assembled into a coherent and effective whole. The aim of the CFAA will be
to provide assistance in completing this process. At negotiations, the Bank and the Government
of Turkey agreed that the annual audits would be carried out by the Treasury Controllers.
Through other projects and other external technical assistance, the capacity of the Treasury
Controllers to audit to international standards has increased significantly over the last several
years, and this development process is ongoing. The Special Account has been opened in the
Turkish National Bank, which should mitigate any risks associated with the banking sector.
31



Given the nature of the project, the major financial risk centers around the various job loss
compensations programs. However, it should be noted that the Turkish Government has been
making similar types of payments without incident since 1995. It should also be noted that the
PA will continue to make payments up front, and only be reimbursed from the Bank loan after
the appropriateness of the payments has been verified. A significant amount of development
effort has gone into ensuring that appropriate financial controls are in place for these
expenditures. Two independent agencies calculate the amounts owing to individuals, and will
certify both their qualification and the amounts. The largest potential problem lies with the
severance part; in this case, the PA has agreed to acquire the expertise to allow it to verify that
the right people have received the right amounts. This will be monitored closely during the
supervision missions. The payment procedures have also been carefully developed to ensure
maximum control over the payments to individual employees. These procedures, which are
detailed in the Project Operational Manual, will vary between the different programs within the
component, but include: certification by the enterprises concerned, review by the agencies
concerned and the Labor Assistance Group, follow-up detailed audits by the Financial
Management Department, and clear identification of those receiving payments, either through
the presentation of an authorization notice and photo identification at the bank, or through a
signature indicating that the funds have been received. The combination of a significant
experience base in the implementing agency, as well as the specific controls put in place for this
Project as part of the financial management system, indicates that there is now a low to moderate
financial risk in this area.
Project Financial Management Arrangements. The PMU is responsible for the
Project financial management system. The PMU has contracted with a qualified software and
accounting firm, on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, for installation of a financial
management system, preparation of accounting manuals and training of staff, in order to meet the
Bank's financial management requirements. Financial specialists from the Bank also provided
on-site advice and assistance. The system was assessed by the Bank's financial management
specialist (see Annex 8) on November 13, 2000, and found to be meet the Bank's minimum
financial management requirements. The PMU will produce quarterly Project Management
Reports (PMR) for management information purposes. The initial complete set of PMRs will
reflect the quarter ended March 31, 2001. Audit arrangements are described above.
5. Environmental               Environmental Category: C
5.1   The ECA Environmental Unit has rated the project as "C". There are no significant
environmental issues in this Project.
5.2   Not applicable
5.3   Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable
32



5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The general rationale and social objectives have been already described in Section El,
and focus on mitigating the short termn negative impact of privatization of SOEs. The first issue
is to ensure that eligible displaced workers get the needed assistance, including temporary
income support and labor services to help ensure that: (a) they do not slip into poverty, and i(b)
they rapidly rejoin the labor force. Detailed procedures have been defined and agreed with the
Government to ensure that severance payments and labor redeployment services get to eligible
workers. There is already considerable internal experience in making these payrnents and
operating labor redeployment services. The second issue is to identify sectors and communities
negatively affected by the economic reform program, as well as individual workers and families
who may be experiencing special problems in re-entering the workforce and coping with
economic and social problems caused by SOE privatization and the economic reform program.
In order to identify these negative outcomes, five studies under three broad topics will be
financed by the Project. The first will research the social impact of the economic reform
program on sectors and communities. The second will examine the applicability of relevanit
policy experiences of other countries in order to design a sound national social assistance system
framework. The remaining three studies will monitor the economic status, and the needs anLd
coping strategies of displaced workers, and determine the net impact of labor redeployment
services. The surveys will provide for analysis by various demographic features (e.g., age, sex,
education level, region).
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
(a)   Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups: (a) workers displaced from SOEs being
privatized and their families; and (b) collateral worker displacement caused in firms associalted
with SOEs where downsizing occurs, in particular in mono-enterprise communities, and the
general economic reform program.
(b)   Information sharing: Representatives of key stakeholders (government, labor/unions,
employers) have been and will continue to be directly involved in project design and
implementation through direct work with representatives. During project preparation and
appraisal, formal meetings were held with national union leaders and, in addition, detailed
discussions were held with local enterprise management, multiple levels of local government,
local union representatives, and representatives of the Social Solidarity Fund which provides
local assistance to needy families in three different provinces. During project implementation,
workers threatened and displaced by the primary and/or collateral impact of SOE privatization
and downsizing will be informed of the availability of income support and labor redeploymrent
benefits and services by local and national publicity as well as through in-plant briefings prior to
the sale of SOEs and possible layoff. Formal monitoring of the social impact will be ongoing
33



throughout the project to determine if affected individuals and groups know about, and are
receiving, sufficient social support.
(c)   Consultation: As noted above, key stakeholders have been and will continue to be
contacted during project design and implementation. In addition, the Government will establish
a Tripartite Advisory Committee to review project design as it develops and provide ongoing
input during implementation. Field visits to selected communities and SOEs to be impacted by
privatization and the ERP will continue during project design and implementation. Special
attention will be given to ensuring that male and female workers are represented and consulted,
and that the operation of key social infrastructure (e.g., day care) operated by SOEs is maintained
at acceptable levels by communities when SOEs are privatized. (This aspect will be reviewed
during supervision missions, and will be included in focus group discussions under the Social
Impact Component.
(d)   Collaboration: As previously noted, information sharing and consultation will continue
during implementation. The Government, as part of the agreed project design, will establish an
ongoing Tripartite Advisory Committee to work with the implementing agency to monitor
implementation of the project, advise on priorities, positions, and conflicts, and suggest
subsequent revisions to project implementation.
It is noted that, under the previous PIAL, such a committee was put in place and
functioned quite effectively on advising on the overall labor redeployment program. During pre-
appraisal, the mission met with union, enterprise management, and government officials who
served on this committee. It is also noted that there has been considerable Bank contact with
stakeholders over the past five years due to the operation of the ETP. As a result of the ETP,
almost all regions already have tripartite advisory committees in place to advise the Government
on job loss compensation and labor redeployment programs. Finally, the ISKUR, which is one
of the key agencies administering severance payments and elements of the labor redeployment
program, already has a formal tripartite board of directors.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As noted in paragraph 6.2 above, collaboration with relevant civil society organizations
and NGOs, in particular the Social Solidarity Fund, has been and will be encouraged during the
design and implementation of the project. Field visits to selected communities and SOEs to be
impacted by privatization will also take place during project design and preparation. NGOs will
also be eligible to bid on, and deliver, labor redeployment services (e.g., job counseling,
retraining, small business assistance, etc.).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
As described in Section C, the Project will include a component on Social Impact of
Economic Reform Program. The component will finance: (i) surveys to monitor the general
social impact of the ERP and privatization on selected communities; (ii) analysis of social issues
and identification of policy alternatives to develop a national social assistance program, based on
review of international experience as it might be used in the Turkish environment; (iii) follow-up
surveys to determine the economic status and coping strategies of workers directly displaced
34



from SOEs; and (iv) follow-up surveys to monitor the net impact of labor redeployment
programs.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The above mentioned studies, which will be contracted to independent third party firrms,
will be the major mechanisms used to monitor and measure project performance in terms of
social development outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                Applicability
El Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)       LI Yes z No
Cl Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes Z No
LI Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 2 Yes z No
L Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   L Yes ZNo
n Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes Z No
1 Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                [l Yes  3 No
I nvoluntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                           0 Yes Z No
3i Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                          El Yes E No
Il Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50. BP 7.50. GP 7.50)  LI Yes | No
L-1 Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)     0 Yes Z No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not applicable.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The Job Loss Compensation and Labor Redeployment components of the Project are not
intended to be sustained over time, as they are one-time severance payments and labor
redeployment programs intended to facilitate privatization of SOEs. However, experience
gained during operation of these programs can assist the government to design and implement
additional downstream SOE privatization and civil service reform programs. The Social Impact
Component builds institutional capacity within the country to evaluate the use and impact of
public funds to deliver social support programs. The Labor Redeployment Programn is modelled
after similar programs in ECA, the EU and OECD, and will provide institutional experience
which can be useful for starting similar programs for general unemployed after the PSSP is
completed.
35



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
R* Bisk              F~I                Risk Minimization Measure
The major risks to the objective of  S    During project preparation, a very careful analysis was
increasing productivity, by              made of the SOE privatization program, and the design,
supporting deregulation and              implementation, and potential demand for severance and
privatization of the state-owned          social mitigation programs in Turkey.
enterprise (SOE) sector, and
mitigating the short-term negative        Discussions of the project have been held with the
social impact of privatization are       national and local representatives of the social partners,
that: (a) privatization may not go       including labor representatives and employers.
forward; (b) the social support may
not be sufficient; or (c) that            A company by company analysis of the amount of
severance payments and labor              financing required for severance and labor redeployment
redeployment services will not go to      has been made to define resource requirements.
displaced workers due to poor project
management and, as a result, the         Discussions with the Government have defined the
negative social reaction may stall the    procedures to be used to ensure that resources reach
economic reform program.                  displaced workers as needed. It is noted that the
Government has already operated severance and labor
redeployment services for workers displaced from SOEs
and the proposed Project builds on this experience.
Agreements have been reached with the Government on
the creation of a PCU within the implementing agency
(PA), and on defining memoranda of understanding
between this agency and other involved agencies.
From Components to Outputs
A. Job Loss Compensation           M      The ERP and related ERL demonstrate government
Component: The Government may             commitment to SOE privatization. The risk for diversion
not implement the privatization           of funds is being addressed by good management of job
program as planned; thus,                 loss compensation resources, and the Bank has agreed on
productivity of SOEs will not be          specific procedures with the Government to audit and
increased, there will be no need for     mitigate the risk of misuse of funds.
job loss compensation and severance
payments, and the proposed loan may
not disburse. Severance payments
may be diverted to other activities in
SOEs.
B. Labor Redeployment: There will    M    Turkey is moving forward on privatization, and has current
be low demand for services, because       experience with operation of a range of labor redeployment
privatization does not proceed, and      measures that are delivered by private, NGO, and public
service providers may not be available   service providers using performance based contracts.
to deliver services to displaced          Detailed contracting procedures included in the POM have
workers.                                 been defined with the implementing agencies to help
ensure that contracting goes forward quickly with minimal
risk to all stakeholders. These agencies have previous
experience within Bank-financed projects in implementing
these services.
36



Risk       R-sk                        Risk Minimization Measure
Ratingo
C. Social Impact of Economic       M    Detailed terms of reference, and appropriate project
Reform Program: Examination of the       resources, have been defined and are included in the POM
social impact of the economic reform     to ensure that a contractor is identified to implement social
program on communities and sectors       impact monitoring in a timely manner. A Tripartite
will not be done and surveys about the   Advisory Commnittee has been agreed to review prcoject
economic status needs and coping         operations and advise on study design. Turkey has recent
strategies of workers displaced by       experience with social impact monitoring, including net
privatization and net impact of labor    impact studies of labor redeployment programs, and had an
redeployment services will not be        active Labor Adjustment Program advisory group
done andlor results will not be          operating under the previous Bank-financed PIAL.
incorporated into ongoing programs to
improve targeting of resources.
D. Project Management: Overall      M    The implementing agency (PA) has expressed a keen
project management will be weak, and     interest in management of the project, which will bhelp to
interagency agreement will not be put    avoid one of the stumbling blocks in the previous P'IAL
in place.                                project where lines of responsibility between Treasury and
PA for management of social support programs during
privatization were not clear. Key implementing agencies
for labor redeployment programs have experience and
have had previous interagency agreements. Terms of
reference to obtain staff support for project management
are completed.
Overall Risk Rating                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3.    Possible Controversial Aspects
Social: Displacement of workers from state-owned enterprises during privatization and
the economic reform program is controversial, particularly with unions. Monitoring and
management of this aspect of the Project will be carried out in several ways, including through:
(a) regular qualitative and quantitative surveys of displaced workers and communities where
economic restructuring is taking place; (b) participation of key stakeholders, including labor
representatives, in the Tripartite Advisory Committee; (c) preparation of media to explain the
type of income support and labor services that are being made available to workers; (d) in-pl[ant
assessment and planning to provide information in-plant and identify needs of workers before
they are displaced; (e) involvement of stakeholders (e.g., unions and NGOs) in providing labor
redeployment services to workers; and (f) ongoing contact with stakeholders throughout project
design and implementation. The contacts and related communications are already underway , and
were used successfully under the previous PIAL project to help offset negative social reactions to
labor displacement.
Ecological and Pollution: No controversial aspects are anticipated. Labor redeployment
services include temporary community employment projects which can and are being used by
communities to improve ecological conditions.
Governance: No controversial aspects are anticipated. The Government has already
agreed to the involvement of key stakeholders, including union and employer representatives, in
37



the Tripartite Advisory Committee. This worked well on the labor component of the previous
PIAL project.
Management Capacity: No controversial aspects are anticipated. The key implementing
agency (Privatization Administration) has agreed to manage the project and has already assigned
required civil service management staff who will be supported by long term local consultants
financed by the Project. Other implementing agencies, specifically ISKUR, and KOSGEB are
familiar with their roles and have managed and implemented similar activities in the past and
continue to do so at present.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1.    By Board Presentation:
*   Put in place an adequate financial management system for the project, consistent
with agreed steps under the Financial Management Action Plan.
*   Confirmnation that implementation of the Economic Reform Loan is proceeding
satisfactorily.
2.    Effectiveness Condition: None anticipated.
3.    Other:
*   Disbursement under the job loss compensation (severance), and labor redeployment
services is restricted to operations meeting criteria agreed with the Bank as defined
in the Project Operational Manual, and replacements or addition to the list of agreed
SOEs will be subject to Bank review and agreement prior to disbursement under the
Job Loss Compensation component.
*   The Borrower shall ensure the implementation of its Privatization Program in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, including: (a) due diligence process, including fair
and transparent market-based SOE tendering procedures, and (b) implementation of
the Sale Agreement of an SOE between the Government and investor. The Bank
may suspend project disbursements if initial a-priori reviews or in ex-post reviews
indicate significant deviations.
H.   Readiness for Implementation
[  1. a) The engineering design for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
F 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. a) The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan (Project Operational Manual) has been appraised and
found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
a 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G).
Procurement Documents: Procedures for operation of the job loss compensation
payments (severance) are drafted, detailed procedures for operation of labor redeployment
38



services (Section 3.15 of the Guidelines) are drafted, Terms of Reference for technical assistance
are drafted, and a procurement plan for technical assistance and the minor goods purchases
financed by the Project is drafted. These are contained in the Project Operational Manual.
Project Implementation Plan (Project Operational Manual): This was agreed and
finalized during negotiations.
1.    Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
F 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for Bank approval. The
project complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
This project is in compliance with applicable Bank policies (see Section 7).
vid Hat FrjNay Chhibber
Team Leader                   Sector M nagerl  or     Country ManagerfOIrector
39



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
t_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:  (from Goal to Bank
_ _                       ~~~~~~~~Mission)
Promote private sector growth  The proportion of      Follow-up during         Objectives remain
by privatizing state-owned  employment in SOEs goes    supervision of objectives   valid under
enterprise sector by       down, and proportion of GDP  on CAS Report #16992   economic reforn
transferring majority      from private sector goes up.   TU, Aug. 6, 1997     program.
ownership and/or           Former SOEs are privatized
management to the private    via sale or bankruptcy and
sector, with adequate safety   liquidation.
net provisions.
Reduce economic            Negative effects of        Draft 2000 CAS Report
vulnerability and improve  privatization on the
social services.           disadvantaged are minimized.
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:         (from Objective to
Objective:                 Indicators:                                         Goal)
The development objective of  Calculations indicate that  #16992 TU Aug. 6, 1997.  Privatization of
the proposed Privatization  productivity of former SOEs                         SOEs will continue
Social Support Project (PSSP)  will increase when privatized  Productivity and economic  as planned.
is to support the achievement   due to reduction in labor  analysis of individual
of the objectives of the    costs. Workers displaced   SOEs.
Government's Privatization    during privatization receive
Program, mitigate the negative  temporary income support    Social impact reports
social and economic impact of (severance) to help prevent   financed by the project
the privatization of state-owned them from slipping into  (see social impact
enterprises, and monitor the,   poverty, and workers   component description).
social impact of the Economic  displaced by the privatization
Reform Program (ERP).      and economic reform
program receive labor
redeployment services to
assist them in returning to the
labor force.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:         (from Outputs to
component:                                                                     Objective)
(a) Job Loss Compensation:   Productivity of elements of   Documentation that: (i)    Production levels
former SOEs have improved   industrial sector, containing   productivity will be  will be maintained,
productivity due to labor  about 39 former SOEs, are   increased in former SOEs  in former SOEs,
market restructuring, and  calculated to improve as a  by labor shedding, and that when labor costs are
severance payments are made  result of labor shedding  investment in severance    reduced.
to displaced workers.      during privatization.      will result in increased
production, profits, or
About 48,000 workers       exports; (ii) individuals are  Severance payment
displaced from SOEs receive  receiving severance; (iii)   will go to workers
severance payments, and    social impact is occurring   displaced by
poverty has been mitigated as  and poverty is being  privatization of
indicated through results of   mitigated among affected   SOEs.
social impact.            individuals and families.
40



*                   ~~~~~Key"Perto aneIInorn                                  ricI
Hierarchy of Objel ves idicata ion -ssumptn
(b) Labor Redeployment:     Labor Redeployment          Documentation on         Labor redeploymLent
necessary protocols and     Services are managed by two  individuals receiving labor  services will go to
administrative procedures   lead agencies and delivered   services.              workers displaced by
were developed between PA    within parameters agreed                            privatization of
and the two lead agencies   with the Bank.              Gross impact evaluation of SOEs and those
administering labor services,                           services on employment of affected by
in-plant assessment and     Demand for services are     displaced workers.       secondary layoff's
planning services were      based on displaced worker                            and the economic
provided to workers at up to   requirements from about 39   Net impact evaluation of   reform program.
39 SOEs, and labor          SOEs.                      impact of services on
redeployment services were                              displaced workers.       Gross and net inipact
provided to displaced      A range of services are                               evaluations will
workers.                   delivered to approximately                            provide information
32,000 displaced workers with                        to increase
job placement rates as follows:                       effectiveness of
Job Counseling: 10%                                  services and the
On-Job Training: 65%                                 results will equal or
Institutional Training 55%                           better than results in
Temp. Com. Emp. 10%                                  other countries and
Small Business Assistance                            Turkey.
5% start-up
Incubator 90% business
survival rate over 12 months.
(c) Social Impact of        The Government: evaluates   Results of social impact    Sufficient funds are
Economic Reform Programn:   the impact of privatization on  studies of: (a) workers  available to finance
quantitative and qualitative    key affected groups     displaced by SOE         severance payments,
surveys were made of workers (including by sex, age,    privatization, (b) families   labor redeployment
displaced from SOEs to      education level, region) and   in communities affected by  services and, where
determine economic status   devises appropriate policy  privatization, (c) the social  needed, social
and coping strategies; surveys  responses; develops typology  impact of the economic    assistance (Social
were conducted in           of communities affected by    reform program, (d)    Solidarity Fund).
communities affected by    labor displacement and the    evaluation of gross and net
privatization and the       ERP and list of options for    impact evaluations of labor
economic reform program; net community assistance;     redeployment services, (e)
impact studies were         designs criteria for labor  analysis of policies
conducted on labor          redeployment services to    alternatives for a national
redeployment programs; and a focus on most effective    social assistance program.
study of social assistance  services for different client
policy alternatives for a   groups; and drafts a social
national social assistance  assistance strategy for
program is completed.       Turkey.
(d) Project Management:     Project objectives are      Project quarterly reports    Project Coordination
Quarterly Project           achieved, and disbursements                          Unit (PCU)
Management Reports and      are on schedule.            Supervision mission      established as agreed
annual Audit Reports were                               reports                  at the implementing
provided as agreed.         The annual project audit is                          agency (Privatization
carried out, acceptable to the  Annual audit reports  Administration).
Bank.
Project Components I Sub-   Inputs: (project budget for  Project reports:        (from Components
components:                 each comronent)                                      to Outputs)
(a) Job Loss Compensation:   US$322.4 million           Project quarterly reports    The Government will
The objective of this                                                            honor and move
component is to improve the                             Supervision mission      forward with SOE
productivity of certain                                 reports                  privatization
elements of Turkey's                                                             program as planned.
industrial sector (previously                           Documentation of               __
41



tIM    AJ~ 'a_  Nf '                         A~
state-owned enterprises) and                          individual receiving
to ameliorate the temporary                           severance and social
negative social and economic                          impact of same,
impact ofjob loss                                     monitoring of individuals
compensation on workers                               who are unemployed via
displaced during privatization                        existing administrative
of SOEs.                                              data systems.
(b) Labor Redeploment: The US$28.3 million            Project quarterly reports.   Service providers are
objective of this component is                                                  available and willing
to provide labor redeployment                          Supervision mission     to provide services.
services to workers, who have                          reports.
been displaced by the
privatization of SOEs,                                 Documentation of
including secondary layoffs, to                       individuals receiving labor
assist them in rapidly                                 services.
reentering the labor market.
Gross impact evaluation of
services on employment.
Net impact evaluation of
impact of services.
(c) Social Impact of       US$ 1.0 million            Project quarterly reports.   Monitoring program
Economic Reform Program:                                                       will be implemented
The objective of this                                 Supervision mission      in a timely manner as
component is to monitor the                           reports.                 agreed with the
social impact of the economic                                                  Government and
reform program and assist                             Reviews of social impact   action will be taken
with the planning and                                 of (a) workers displaced by to refne and re-
formulation of supportive                             SOE privatization, (b)   target income
economic and social policies.                         families in communities    support and labor
affected by SOE         redeployment
downsizing and layoffs, (c) services as needed.
evaluation of gross and net
impact evaluations of labor
redeployment services, and
(d) assessment of social
assistance policy
alternatives for a national
social assistance program.
(d) Proiect Management:    US$ 1.1 million            Project quarterly reports.   The Government
The objective of this                                                          (Implementing
component is to ensure                                Supervision mission      Agency) establishes
effective administration and                          reports.                 and maintains the
coordination of the overall                                                    Project Coordination
project program, financial                            Project mid-term review.   Unit as agreed with
accounts, and procurement.                                                     the Bank.
,                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Positive and timely annual
audit reports.
42



Annex 2: Project Description
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
COMPONENT 1:   JOB LOSS COMPENSATION
OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
The goal of this component is to improve the productivity of certain elements of Turkey's industrial sector
(previously state-owned enterprises) and to ameliorate the temporary negative social and economic impact of
job loss compensation on workers displaced during privatization of SOEs.
Objective                                  Activitr.
1. Severance Payments: to provide       (i) Selection and verification of eligible SOEs based on
severance and related payments, as regulated  productivity and use of public funds criteria as previously
by law, to workers displaced by job loss  agreed with the Bank.
compensation due to privatization of state-
owned enterprises.                      (ii) Identification of eligible workers to receive
severance, special job loss compensation and retirement
social assistance.
(iii) Calculation of payments and transfer of funds to
SOEs, the ISKUR and ES.
(iv) Verification of payments to ensure that laid-off or
retired employees were eligible and received the correct
amount.
COMPONENT 2:  LABOR REDEPLOYMENT PROGRAM (LRP)
OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
The goal of this component is to provide labor redeployment services to workers, who have been displaced by
the privatization of SOEs, including secondary layoffs, and to assist them in rapidly re-entering the labor
market.
O~~~~~jective ~~   ~       ~      Atiite
1. Develop and Maintain Administrative   (i) Interagency Protocols: Develop interagency
Framework: to develop and maintain      protocols to define the relationship between PA (Project.
administrative procedures between PA, Lead  Coordinating Unit Labor Assistance Group), and the two
Agencies (i.e., ISKUR, KOSGEB), and sub-  lead agencies responsible for administering the delivery of
contractors, to facilitate the delivery of labor labor services to the unemployed.
redeployment services to the unemployed.
(ii) Administrative Arrangements: Orient lead agency
staff, at the National, and Local levels, concerning the uise
of the Labor Redeployment Field Operational Manual
including: sub-contracting procedures, monitoring, and
reporting.
43



Objetv                                         ctvte
(iii) Public Information: Develop public information
(e.g., print and non-print media) on the Labor
Redeployment Program for use by Lead Agencies, with
State-owned enterprises, with unions, with service
providers, with the unemployed, and with the general
public.
(iv) Monitoring and Evaluation: Develop and operate a
management information system (e.g., type of service
contract, unit costs by budget category for each type of
contract, unit costs per client served, program job
placement rates, unit costs per job placement) to monitor
each labor redeployment program, and provide needed
data to other technical assistance contractors with net
impact evaluation of programs.
2. Assess and Plan Demand for Labor     (i) Develop Assessment and Planning Procedures and
Redeployment Services: To organize and    Materials: Review with representatives from Lead
deliver labor redeployment assessment and    Agencies - Community - Labor - SOE Management the
planning services to workers in SOEs being    orientation and assessment procedures developed during
privatized to ensure these workers know  previous projects, refine and finalize procedures, and train
what income support and labor redeployment  lead consultants and lead agency staff in use of the
services are available and to determine the    orientation and assessment procedures.
demand for these services in up to 39 SOEs
and approximately 110 sites.            (ii) Provide In-plant Assessment and Planning services:
Establish tripartite working committees (e.g., government,
community, labor, management, lead agency) and
organize in-plant public information and assessments
sessions for workers to determine demand for labor
redeployment services in approximately 39 SOEs.
3. Deliver Labor Redeployment Services:  (i) ISKUR: Local labor offices sub-contract with service
To deliver labor redeployment services to  providers to deliver: (a) in-depth job counseling, (b)
approximately 32,000 unemployed workers   temporary community employment, and (c) retraining
through sub-contractors to the two lead  programs to unemployed workers following procedures in
agencies (i.e., ISKUR, KOSGEB).         the Field Operational Manual as agreed with the Bank.
(ii) KOSGEB: KOSGEB sub-contracts with service
providers to deliver: (a) small business assistance, and (b)
incubator services to unemployed workers following
procedures in the LRP Field Operational Manual as agreed
with the Bank.
44



PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA - LABOR REDEPLOYMENT SERVICES
1.    General Criteria
Availability of LRS Services to Communities: LRS funds will finance active labor programs in all
communities unless a specific activity is exempted and are intended to support the overall economic reform
program, including privatization of SOEs. The algorithm for determining allocation of funds by Province will
be based on a combination of number of SOE employees being displaced and/or estimated to be displaced
each year, the development index, and level of unemployment (each weighted equally) with the understanding
that amounts could be reallocated during third quarter of each year if a Province does not use its allocation.
Availability of LRS Services to Individuals: LRS services will be provided to individual citizens through
local services providers selected by public advertisement. Clients include: (a) workers to be displaced, or
already displaced and registered as unemployed due to privatization of SOEs, and (b) other registered
unemployed displaced or having difficulty entering the labor market by the overall Economic Reform
Program. First priority will be given to workers displaced by privatization.
Allocation of LRS Services: The LRS is demand-driven, in general; there is no specific allocation of
resources by LRS program at the national level or at the provincial levels. However, the maximum amount of
the LRS that can be used at the national level and in each Province for Temporary Community Services is
25%.
Selection and Reimbursement to Service Providers: Public advertisement is required to select service
providers which propose programs, after public announcement of the availability of funds, and those that meet
minimum evaluation criteria may be accepted for financing (detailed contracting procedures for procurement
of services are contained in Annex I, Section III, of the Project Operational Manual). Reimbursement to
service providers will be based on the contracted average cost per client times the number of clients receiving
services. Service providers are eligible for limited mobilization payments to a maximum of 20%, but willl
thereafter bill for services provided on a monthly or as needed basis.
Duplication of Payments and Services: Individual clients cannot receive income support payments (e.g.,
minimum wage during training or during temporary community employment) from the LRS if they are
receiving other types of state-financed income support (e.g., unemployment benefits, job loss compensation
payments). Individuals may not participate in both training and temporary community employment programs
financed under the LRS, and cannot participate in these programs if they have participated in similar
programs financed by the Employment and Training Fund in the past 24 months.
Evaluation of Services: The impact of services is to be evaluated by all service providers as a condition of
their contracts. Service providers must report on the status of clients at the end of each program and/or when
a client terminates a program, and before final invoices are paid (e.g., did clients get jobs after services, did
they start businesses, what is their wage and/or income). Some service contracts (e.g., training, small
business assistance, employment counseling) will have built-in incentives to improve labor market impact
(e.g., negotiated levels ofjob placement and business start-up, with financial incentives to meet objectives,
and disincentives if objectives are not met).
Labor Mobility: Mobility is to be encouraged by providing information, by the sharing of information on
services being provided in different regions, by re-location grants that can be provided through employment
service contracts, and by allowing qualified individuals from one region to participate in programs being
provided in other regions.
45



2.     Specific Criteria by Program
2.1. Criteria for Employment Services (Lead Agency ISKUR)
Eligible Services: Job/social counseling, provision of labor market information, aptitude/interest assessment,
job search/job club programs, labor exchange and placement services, relocation services.
Eligible Service Providers: Non-government non-profit agencies (NGOs), private firms, labor organizations
that demonstrate minimum capabilities to be service providers (e.g., staff qualifications, facilities, financial
viability, placement capability). No-fees are to be charged to clients. A negotiated job placement rate of at
least 10% is to be included in contracts if the applicable law authorizing job placement by private agencies is
enacted.
Eligible Costs: Staff and administrative personnel, rent and utilities, consumable materials, client
transportation for job interviews, non-durable goods, depreciation of capital equipment - 20% per year,
relocation costs up to US$500 per family.
2.2. Criteria for Retraining Services (Lead Agency ISKUR)
Eligible services: Vocational, general education and literacy, fornal small business skills training. Local
organizations proposing training programs must show evidence of demand for trained workers ( e.g.,
endorsed by existing local tripartite employment councils) and agree to a negotiated job placement rate of an
average of at least 60% for institutional and on-job training.
Eligible Service Providers: Enterprises, private, NGO, and public training institutions (if no similar
programs are offered by private providers). Institutions must show minimum capability for provision of
training services (e.g., staff qualifications, facilities, financial viability, placement capability.
Eligible Costs: Maximum length of training per client - 12 months, training and administrative personnel
costs including fees, rent and utilities, consumable materials, client transportation, non-durable goods,
maximum depreciation of capital equipment - 20% per year, training wage up to gross minimum wage level -
- less any parallel job loss compensation or unemployment benefits. Enterprises which are training clients for
internal hiring will only receive reimbursement for 70% of total training costs, other contractors (e.g., training
institutions) which are training for the general labor market will revive 100% reimbursement. Proposals that
exceed the maximum average unit cost (US$200 per month, per trainee) by 25% will be rejected.
2.3. Criteria for Temporary Community Employment Services (Lead Agency ISKUR)
(Note: maximum allowable expenditure on this program per Province,
and of the total labor redeployment fund, is 25 % of LRP funds)
Eligible Services: Environmental cleanup, refurbishment of public infrastructure, provision of assistance and
support to social agencies (e.g., schools, retirement homes, clinics). Organizations proposing programs must
provide evidence that the program will not displace normal employment (e.g., evidenced by concurrence of
local union and employer representatives).
Eligible Service Providers: Local Government must concur and approve projects, but are excluded from
implementing service contracts. Projects must be implemented by non-government or private contractors
selected by public advertisement. Local Government Agency implementation is acceptable only if the
advertisement process does identify qualified non-government contractors, and as agreed with the Bank.
Proposing organizations must provide evidence of administrative and financial viability and agree to
negotiated job placement rates of at least 10% at the end of the program.
46



Eligible Costs: Supervisory personnel and fees (not more than 15% of total contract), worker stipends (not
more than gross minimum wage), transportation costs, related training costs, utilities, consumable materials
and non-durable goods (limited to 20% of total project costs), maximum length of individual participation (6
months).
2.4. Criteria for Small Business Assistance (Lead Agency KOSGEB)
Eligible Services: Provision of services including, but not limited to: initial assessment of the aptitude and
skills of unemployed persons to start businesses, developing business plans, advising on accounting, financial,
legal, marketing and sales services issues, assistance in the dialogue with local authorities, short-term training
(e.g., 1-2 weeks) and other consulting services to unemployed entrepreneurs who intend to start, or who
started businesses during the past 6 months.
Eligible Service Providers: Private agencies, autonomous government organizations, statutory occupational
organizations, foundations and other associations. Service providers which have, or intend to develop, links
with micro-small business finance programs, are encouraged to apply. Services providers must agree to
negotiated business start-up rates of at least 5% of clients initially contacted.
Eligible Costs: Personnel services, transportation costs, rent and utilities, consumable materials and non-
durable goods, maximum depreciation of capital equipment - 30% per year. Maximum length of initial
contract, 12 months with extensions possible. Costs per client must be specified in all contracts, however unit
costs may be identified for different categories of services by each service provider (e.g., initial business
planning, advice on marketing, developing accounting procedures) based on the understanding that all client
do not need full services and some may drop out after initial contacts.
2.5. Criteria for Small Business Incubators (Lead agency KOSGEB)
Eligible Services: Facilities/premises rental, small business consulting services for tenants, shared support
services (e.g., accounting, security) and equipment for common use by incubator management and tenants
(e.g., telephone, a service vehicle, office equipment, etc.).
Eligible Service Providers: Private and non-government associations and foundations. Applicants will be
judged on availability of facilities, qualifications of management staff, linkages with existing small business
organizations and financing institutions, financial and administrative capabilities, experience with small
business, and linkage with sources of micro-small business finance. Services providers must agree to
negotiate business survival rates of at least 90% over 12 months.
Eligible Costs: Facility refurbishment and/or rent but not land or new building construction, general support
equipment; limited staff costs (e.g., manager, secretarial/accounting, security staff), administrative and
auditing costs, consumable supplies and non-durable goods, and operating expenses. Up to US$50,000 for a
revolving fund for short-term micro working capital loans to tenants - loans must be at positive interest rates.
Reimbursement of operating costs to be phased out over three years maximum, and before project closure
(e.g., 100% first year, 66% second year, 33% third year).
47



COMPONENT 3:  SOCIAL IMPACT OF ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
The goal of this component is to monitor the social impact of the economic reform program and assist in the
planning and formulation of supportive economic and social policies'.
1. Social Impact of Economic Reform Program:  (i) Design: Define the focal points for the study to
To evaluate the impact of the Economic Reform  identify the main impact of economic reform in
Program on vulnerable communities suffering from  termns of structural aspects and economic policies,
policy changes, and develop institutional capability  review similar studies, design interview
to analyze and address social issues.        questionnaire, guide and procedures, and train
interviewers.
(ii) Select pilot communities and sectors:
Develop criteria and select two communities and
two sectors representative of those facing
challenges with conduct of the economic reform
program.
(iii) Gather data and conduct focus groups:
Interview key informants and local residents in
selected pilot communities and sectors.
(iv) Infrastructure: Define and provide
information technology, office, and training
materials to enhance the analytical capabilities of
the EKA Working Group for policy formulation
and monitoring and assessment of policy outcomes.
(v) Analyze: Assess general challenges faced by
pilot communities and sectors negatively affected
by the economic reform program and synthesize
areas for improvement of social policy and best
practice.
(vi) Policy framework: Design a framework to
help ameliorate the negative social impact of
economic reformn, based on the pilot studies and
review of intemational experience (see objective 2
following).
(vii) Disseminate: Prepare a final report and
disseminate results, including implementing a
seminar for decision makers and social partners.
'Analyses of studies are to include breakout of data by age, sex, education level, region, etc.
48



bjective                                       A-tivities
2. National Social Assistance System: To        (i) Review international experience: Review
identify policy alternatives for social assistance  international policy in other countries, including
based on a review of international experience, in  undertaking study tours to selected countries (e.g.,
particular within the framework of Turkeys      Latin America, North America, Europe) that have
accession to the EU.                            implemented comprehensive economic reforms
similar to those in Turkey.
(ii) Analyze Scope: Evaluate and assess the effect
of the economic adjustment programs in the
selected countries and its consequences on social
assistance policy.
(iii) Social funds: Review international policy
experience with social funds and the Turkish
experience with the social funds pilots to assess
their practicality for Turkey, in particular their role
in supporting macroeconomic stabilization and in
harmonizing work with related EU frameworks.
(iv) Analyze: Review international social
assistance and social fund policy and techniques in
relation to current conditions in Turkey to assess
the potential for adaptation or adoption of different
approaches.
(v) Financing and administration: Review
international experience to identify policy
alternatives for financing and managing a national
social assistance program, including establishing
necessary linkages with related institutes and
training centers.
(vi) Dissemination and capacity building:
Prepare final report, implement a seminar for
concerned decision makers and social partners, and
provide training to EKA Working Group and other
related groups to assist them in carrying out related
responsibilities.
49



3. Privatization Economic Impact: To assess the  (i) Design: review similar studies, design survey
economic status of workers displaced by             questionnaire and procedures, resolve sampling
privatization by undertaking a quantitative survey    issues and train interviewers.
of about 3,000 workers, repeated five times.
(ii) Pilot test: pilot test the survey questionnaire
in one region, revise questionnaire accordingly.
(iii) Implement: (1) Data collection: interviews
completed and data collected and entered. Data cleaned
and verified; data set constructed. (2) Data analysis:
cross-tabulations and frequency distributions for all
variables; identify vulnerable groups and occupations;
assess household coping strategies.
(iv) Replicate: Repeat survey bi-annually for two
additional years for a total of 5 rounds of data.
(v) Disseminate results: Prepare interim and final
reports and disseminate including organizing a
seminar for decision makers and the social partners.
4. Privatization Coping Strategies: To assess       (i) Design: Review similar studies, design
the needs and coping strategies of displaced        interview guide and procedures, resolve sampling
workers by completing a qualitative study of about   issues for focus groups.
200 workers, repeated five times.
(ii) Pilot test: Pilot test the interview guide with
two focus groups, revise interview guide
accordingly.
(iii) Implement: (I) Information collection: interviews
completed. (2) Focus group report drafted. Synthesis
report drafted: analyze worker sentiments, coping
strategies, and plans for the future.
(iv) Replicate: Repeat study bi-annually for two
additional years for a total of 5 rounds of focus
groups.
(v) Disseminate results: Prepare interim and final
reports and disseminate, including holding a
seminar for decision makers and social partners.
50



Objective           A-Ctivtes
5. Labor Redeployment Services: To determine   (i) Design: Review similar studies, design survey
the net impact of labor redeployment services by a   questionnaire and procedures, design sample
quasi-experimental comparison study of          (treatment and control groups), train interviewers,
participants in labor redeployment programs in the   and conduct study tour to two countries which have
previous Privatization Project (PIAL).          undertaken similar studies.
(ii) Implement: (1) Data collection: interviews
completed and data collected and entered. Data
cleaned and verified; data set constructed.
(2) Data analysis: compare treatment and control
groups by cross-tabulations and frequency
distributions for all variables; identify net
difference in outcomes (impact) of individual labor
redeployment services with different clients.
(iii) Disseminate.
Prepare final report and disseminate, including a
seminar for decision makers and social partners.
51



COMPONENT 4:  PROJECT MANAGEMENT
OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
The goal of this component is to ensure effective administration and coordination of the overall project
program, financial accounts, and procurement.
VW,i                                          A
1. Project Coordination Unit (PCU):     (i) Coordination: Help Privatization Administration
(a) Coordinate project execution, and manage  (PA) to coordinate project implementation through:
the resources of the project.           (a) convening regular meetings of the Technical
Coordinators to discuss common issues; (b) ensuring that
the project is being implemented in accordance with legal
agreements with the World Bank;
(c) assisting with project implementation as requested by
the technical agencies involved.
(b) Procure all Bank-financed goods and  (ii) Procurement: Assist PA in managing all
services for implementing agencies.     procurement under the project, in cooperation with the
technical agencies; specific responsibilities during the
procurement process for equipment, technical assistance,
and training.
(c) Operate the financial management system  (iii) Financial Management: Assist PA to set up and
according to LACI requirements.         operate a financial management system based on
technical agreements reached with the World Bank.
(d) Act as liaison between the technical  (iv) World Bank Liaison: (a) Manage disbursement of
agencies and the World Bank.            all World Bank loan proceeds; (b) monitor availability of
Government's counterpart contribution to the project; (c)
monitor implementation progress of project components;
and (d) work with implementing agencies to prepare
quarterly progress reports in accordance with a project
progress reporting formnat acceptable to the Bank.
2. Annual Project Audit                 (i) Audit Arrangements: PCU to organize annual
audits to be made by the Treasury Controller, according
to Bank requirements and agreements with Government.
(ii) Accounts Maintenance: PCU to maintain project
accounts, acceptable to the Bank.
52



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs'
(US$ thousand)                          _
. . Local                                   Foreign        TOtal
Project Cost By Component           USS thousand    US$ thousand  US$ thousand
1. Job Loss Compensation                        96,805.9       225,617.0    322,423.0'
2. Labor Redeployment                             9,575.7       18,654.2     28,229.9
3. Social Impact of Economic Reform Program        667.9          319.5         987.4
4. Project Management                              837.7          249.4        1,087.1
Total Baseline Cost                             107,887.3      244,840.2    352,727.4
Physical Contingencies                              6.3           34.6          40.8
Price Contingencies                                 0.7           20.2          20.9
Front End Fee                                       0.0         2,500.0      2,500.0
Total Project Costs                107,894.2      247,395.0     355,289.2
4Local         Foreign         ToWl
Project Cost By Category            US $million     US Smillion    US $,illion
1. Goods                                             62.5            237.5        300.0
2. Consultant Services and Training               3,038.5            854.1       3892.6
3 Job Loss Compensation Fund                     96,693.0         225617.0     322,3 10.1
4 Labor Redeployment Fund                         7,759.6         18,105.8      25,865.4
5 Recurrent Costs                                   333.7             25.7        3:59.4
Total Baseline Cost                             108,690.9        246,715.4    355,406.3
Physical Contingencies                               6.3             34.6         40.8
Price Contingencies                                  0.7             20.2          20.9
Front End Fee                                        0.0          2,500.0       2,500.0
Total Project Costs                 107,894.2        247,395.0_   355,289.2
'Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
53



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
Present Value of Flows         Fiscal Impact
Economic         Financial
Analysis        Anal sis1      Taxes   Subsidies
Project Costs                       Na                Na         Na          Na
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be
explained by taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g., "The difference
between financial and economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
As noted previously (Section El), the proposed PSSP is directly linked with the
Government of Turkey's overall economic reform program which will structurally transform the
Turkish economy by reducing state involvement and advancing market reforms. Many state-
owned enterprises are characterized by low productivity-low output per worker. This key
benefit of the PSSP is to help improve the productivity of certain segments of the Turkish
industrial sector (in accordance with paragraph 3 of the OM on Financing Severance Pay in
Public Enterprises Reform Operations, dated March 5, 1996, which states that "severance pay
should be an integral part of the project aimed to make an enterprise or sector more productive").
Only those SOEs that can demonstrate: (a) an expected positive rate of return on the investment
of severance within a four year period (i.e., the reduction in the number of employees must result
in a decrease in overall operating costs without a corresponding loss of production; (b) that the
investment is in accordance with Turkey's industrial strategy; and (c) that the investment will
lead to an overall increase to either production, profits or exports at the enterprise or sector level.
In addition, there must be evidence that the payment of severance is an appropriate use of public
funds and where it is not feasible for the new owner to make such payments according to one or
more criteria agreed with the Bank
Moving workers via severance payments and from jobs where they are not productive
and receive public subsidies to jobs where they are productive and do not receive public
subsidies reduces public budget outlays and increases GDP. Public budget outlays will decline
to the extent that redundant workers who are to be redeployed to new jobs now receive indirect
or direct government subsidies. Even if displaced workers are not successful in finding
productive jobs, public budget outlays will decline if, as expected, the costs of labor
redeployment measures, including temporary income support, are less than the cost of the
subsidies to keep workers in unproductive jobs. At the same time, GDP will increase to the
extent that the jobs filled by redeployed workers are new jobs or higher productivity jobs than
they would otherwise have been. Specialized counseling, requalification training, and improved
job placement services have been found to raise productivity by bringing about more efficient
matching ofjob seekers and the skill requirements of existing jobs (OECD Employment Outlook,
1993, page ix).
54



Main Assumptions: Job Loss Compensation (Severance): production from privatized
enterprises will be maintained at levels that are equal, or are sufficiently high, to offset the costs
of severance payments to reduce labor costs. Labor Redeployment: investment in labor
redeployment programs results in a net positive impact on job placement.
Cost-effectiveness indicators': Job Loss Compensation (Severance): The reduction in the
number of employees, must show an expected positive rate of return on the investment of
severance within a four year period, and must result in a decrease in overall operating costs
without a corresponding loss of production. Labor Redeployment: the job placement rate for
workers participating in labor redeployment programs will be equal to or better than those in
similar programs in Turkey and the region.
'These indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e.g., unit project costs of
alternative project designs or international standards.
55



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
Years Ending
(US$ Million)
Ylearl   Year2   Yer i          a -r4   YearS"   _
Total Financing Required
Project Costs (US$M)
Investment Costs          53.90    105.60    174.80     18.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Recurrent Costs            0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10     0.00      0.00     0.00
Front End Fee              2.50      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Project Costs        56.50    105.70    174.90     18.10      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Financing            56.50    105.70    174.90      18.1      0.00      0.00     0.00
Financing
IBRD/IDA                 38.10     74.20    122.50     12.70      0.0      0.0       0.0
Government               15.90     31.50     52.40     5.40       0.0      0.0       0.0
Front End Fee             2.50       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Central                0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing   56.50    105.70    174.90     18.10      0.0       0.0      0.0
rL~~~~~~PRAIiA PERIOD
t% (' L j_0'i''...... Y  e0AttI0rl- Y| arZ20g Year3   Year:4   YearS   Year
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Financing              0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0        0.0
Financing                                            l
IBRD/IDA                  0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Government                0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1        0.1
Central                0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers             0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1         0.1
56



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
Procurement
The procurement activity under this project is limited since, the allocation of Loan proceeds
is to be spent as funds as per criteria and special arrangements agreed upon with the Bank. Goods
under the IBRD financed components of this project will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Loan published in January 1995 including all
revisions up to January 1999. Contracts for Consulting Services required for the Project will be
awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrower", dated January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The project
elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods, are summarized in Table A. Other
procurement information, including capability of the implementing agency, estimated dates for
publication of GNP and the Bank's review process is presented in Tables B and C.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million)
Ric*)eRdftture Category  ~~~                       N.E.F.    Total
1. Works                               0.00           0.00          0.00        0.00       0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)    fO.00)
2. Goods                               0.00           0.00          0.33        0.00      0.33
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.28)      (0.00)     (0.28)
3. Services                             0.00          0.00          3.92        0.00       3.92
(0.00)        (0.00)        (3.50)      (0.00)    (3.50
4. Job Loss Compensation               0.00           0.00         322.31       0.00     322.31
Payments
(0.00)        (0.00)       (225.62)    (0.00)   (225.62)
5. Labor Redeployment Services /3      0.00           0.00         25.87        0.00      2'5.87
____________ 0.00l  (0.00)  (18.10)     (0.00)    f I.1 0)
6. Incremental Operating Costs         0.00           0.00          0.00        0.36       0.36
___________ (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)
7. Front End Fee                       0.00           0.00          2.50        0.00       2.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (2.50)      (0.00)    (2.50)
Total                                0.00          0.00         355.29       0.36      355.29
(0.00)        (0.00)       (250.00)    (0.00)   (2510.00)
1 l Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IBRD Loan. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs as well as Front End Fee.
Loss Compensation Fund not subject to commercial procurement practices (OM March 5.1996). Labor Redeployment Fund per
Consultant and Goods Guidelines. depending on nature of services, as agreed with the Bank and defined in the POM. NBF= Non
Bank Financed.
3/ Includes National Competitive bidding for incubators.
57



Goods
Goods (approximately US$0.33 million) consisting of computer and office equipment as well
as training materials and supplies will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project
objectives, in package sizes that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of
procurement will be followed:
(i)   International Shopping (IS). These procedures, by comparing at least three quotations
from two different countries will be used for the purchase of office and computer equipment,
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract for an aggregated amount of US$0.15
million.
(ii)   National Shopping (NS). These procedures, by comparing at least three quotations from
qualified national firms, will be used for contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000
equivalent up to an aggregate of US$0.18 million.
Selection Procedures for Consulting Services
Contracts for Consulting Services and training will be packaged to combine related skills and
services, in order to make them attractive and increase competition as well as to reduce the number
of contracts to be managed by the PCU. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)   Quality and Cost-based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for contracting
consultant services and training relating to the Job Loss Compensation Component, the
Labor Redeployment Component and the Social Impact Component including the various
studies. Aggregate amount US$3.20 million equivalent.
(ii)   Quality Based Selection (QBS) will be used for contracting Labor Redeployment services in
accordance with the provisions of para. 3.2 of the Guidelines following criteria and
procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the Project Operational Manual (POM).
(iii) Individual Consultants will be hired in accordance with Section V of the Guidelines.
Individual consultants will be used for Project Management Specialist, Financial Specialist,
Procurement Specialist and Administration staff for an aggregate amount of US$0.67
million. Consultants will be selected based on individual's qualification and with Bank's
prior approval.
Job Loss Compensation Payments
Severance pay expenditures (aggregate US$322.31 million) are not subject to commercial
procurement practices and, therefore, no specific procurement arrangements are applicable.
Severance payments are to be conducted following specific criteria agreed by the Bank. (See
Implementation summary for the Job Loss Compensation Component, Annex 2). The severance pay
procedure is according to the Operational Memorandum, dated March 1996, "Financing of
Severance Pay in Public Enterprise Reform Operations".
58



Labor Redeployment Services
Procurement for Labor Redeployment Services will be based on Section 3.2 of the
Consultant Guidelines, or Section 3.3 or 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines, depending on the type
of services being procured, following criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank as described in
the Project Operational Manual (POM). These include, inter alia (i) the type of community services
to be provided, (ii) the agencies eligible to provide said services, and (iii) the eligible costs that will
be reimbursed in the service delivery contracts as described in Annex 2 of the PAD, and further
defined and discussed in the Project Operation Manual (POM). Contracts for services such as
employment counseling, retraining and small business assistance are generally not expected to
exceed US$60,000. The Bank's no-objection is required for contracts exceeding US$60,000.
Procurement under Labor Redeployment Services will be carried out by the two lead agencies
(ISKUR, KOSGEB) and their local offices and generally be carried out on a service delivery
contract basis. Service contracts for small business incubators are not expected to exceed
US$250,000, and will be subject to National Competitive Bidding, as further described in the POM.
ISKUR, KOSGEB local offices can execute contracts up to US$20,000 and contracts over this
amount must be submitted to the lead agency head office for review and no-objection. Lead
Agencies (ISKUR, KOSGEB) can give no-objections for contracts up to US$40,000 and contracts
over this amount must be submitted to the Privatization Administration for review and no-objection.
The Privatization Administration can review and give no-objection to contracts up to US$60,000.
The initial three contracts for each type of Labor Redeployment services, regardless of value, and all
contracts over US$60,000, must be submitted to the Bank for review and no-objection. In addition,
during the regular 6-month project supervisions, an ex-post review of selected projects will be
carried out.
Operating Costs
PCU civil servants salaries, office materials and supplies, communication expenses, etc.
would be financed by the Government for the duration of the project (US$0.36 million).
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the "Development Business"
around the period of Loan Negotiations and will be annually updated. For large-value consultants
contracts, invitation for bids will be advertised in the Development Business and national gazette,
and in the case of NCB, in a major local newspaper (in the national language).
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the Project wil:l be
carried out in accordance with the agreed Procurement Plan (Table B), which will be updated if
necessary and included in the progress reports for Bank review.
59



Prior Review
(a)   Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation
of award and contract will be conducted for the first two contracts for International and National
Shopping contracts regardless of their value.
(b)   Consulting Services: Terms of reference for all consulting assignments will be subject to
prior Bank review. Request for Proposal (RFP), short lists, terms of condition of contracts as well as
evaluation reports and recommendation for award will be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts
for technical assistance as well as training for individual consultants above US$30,000 and firms
above $60,000.
(c)   Labor Redeployment Services: Prior review by the Bank will be required for the first three
contracts for each type of Labor Redeployment services, regardless of value.
After award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and
conditions of a contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15% of the original amount, the
Bank will reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (including modifications to
contracts for consulting services).
The PCU would keep a complete and up-to-date record of all procurement documentation
and relevant correspondence in its files. All other procurement documents and procedures would be
subject to the Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions. In such cases, the PCU would
provide for review of all the relevant documentation (invitation to bid/request for proposals,
conditions of contract, etc.).
Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement
The capacity assessment is completed. Specific recommendations and an action plan to
strengthen the procurement capacity of the Privatization Administration (PA) was defined during
appraisal.
The Privatization Administration's Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will have the overall
responsibility for the managing, monitoring and reporting of all procurement activities under the
Privatization Social Support Project. The procurement activities, however, are limited, since
approximately 90% of the project costs are allocated for severance payments that are not subject to
commercial procurement practices in accordance to World Bank's Operational Memorandum, dated
March 1996.
Based on the analysis of both the agency's procurement capacity and the information
gathered, the following recommendations are made to improve their capacity to carry out
procurement under the project.
Establish a Procurement/Reporting Department in the PCU. This department will consist of
a Department Head (civil servant) and will be supported by a full time Procurement
Specialist (individual consultant), a full time Reporting and Communications Specialist
(individual consultant), a full time translator/interpreter and a staff assistant. The Department
Head has been appointed, and the rest of the staff shall be hired within thirty days of Loan
60



Effectiveness. Terms of Reference for the consultants and staff above are provided in the
Project Operational Manual. All consultants shall be hired competitively following the
proper advertisements.
The PCU will be supported by a short term Project Management Specialist (international
consultant) with extensive experience in international procurement as well as experience in
World Bank (WB) financed projects. The specialist shall have a thorough knowledge of WB
procurement procedures, guidelines and standard bidding documents issued by the W]3 that
will be applicable for this project. The consultant shall be hired within thirty days of Loan
Effectiveness in order to participate as a presenter in the first project supervision mission.
*     The Procurement/Reporting Department Head shall attend WB recommended procurement
training offered by the WB Country Office, ILO Turin, or other agreed training during the
early stages of project implementation. Upon his/her return, the Department Head shall
organize in-house training for all PCU staff dealing with procurement as well as the staff of
the other lead agencies.
*     During the first project supervision, a procurement seminar shall be held for all project
related staff from PA and other agencies participating in the project. This will serve as an
introduction to Bank's operational procedures, including WB procurement procedures and
practices.
*     The PCU Procurement and Reporting Department shall set up a reference library containing
all the WB procurement related documentation, including the updated versions of the
Guidelines, templates for Procurement Notices, standard bidding documents(SBDs) and
standard request for proposals(RFP), standard evaluation forms, check lists and
Memorandums issued by OSCPR, as well as required forms needed to input the information
into the WB system.
*     The Project Operational Manual, which includes key elements regarding procurement (e.g.,
the TORs and the Field Operational Manual for the Labor Redeployment Fund) has been
completed and agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The Project Operational Manual,
including the Field Operational Manual for the Labor Redeployment Fund has been
completed and agreed at negotiations for review of compliance with Bank Procurement
Guidelines, including the procedures under the Labor Redeployment Fund. The Project
Operational Manual also includes eligibility criteria as per Bank Guidelines for government
owned/supported agencies.
*     During appraisal, the eligibility of state universities to participate in bidding for this project
was discussed. The mission referred to the Operational Memorandum dated August 11999.
The Bank will allow participation of universities and research institutions when the services
are of a unique and exceptional nature and no suitable alternatives from private sector
consultants are available.
*     The Procurement Plan included in the Project Appraisal Docunent must be adhered to and
updated quarterly as part of the Project Management Report.
61



*     The PCU will set up an integrated Management Information System (MIS), in cooperation
with the Labor Assistance Group, which provides for management of all financial
transactions and procurement transactions, including the tracking and monitoring of all
contracts, including those under the Labor Redeployment Fund.
*     The MIS shall have the capacity to record the large amount of small contracts under the
Labor Redeployment Fund. Samples from other WB-financed projects shall be obtained in
order to design the most appropriate system that will enable updates and linkages to the
financial management system for the project.
*     Bank supervision missions shall be scheduled at least every six months and will include a
Procurement Accredited Staff. Mission Aide Memoires will address procurement issues and
include specific Annexes summarizing results of procurement post reviews.
Retroactive Financing
Retroactive financing in the amount of US$24 million can be provided for in the proposed
Project for severance payments, labor redeployment services, goods, and consultant
services/training. Both severance payments and labor redeployment services are already underway,
in support of the privatization program, and there is a need for some consultants-particularly in the
PCU-to assist in quick project start-up. Only those contracts will be acceptable under retroactive
financing which will meet the Bank's procurement guidelines.
62



Table BI. Turkey: Privatization Social Support Project
Procurement Plan
Description         Type   Proc.       Proposed      Estimated   Invitation     BID Docs/    Bid/RFP          contract          contract
Method    Number of    Total Cost   GPN/SPN            RFP        1. opening       signing          complete
Packages     (US$000)   Local ad         1. prepar.    2.evaluation
2. Does. Issued  3.Recomm
for award
Goods
LAG Office Eq.         G       is            I            $67         GPN          Invitation      Feb. 2001       March 2001        April 2001
Administration & Mgt.                                                  Nov. 2000      To Quote
_____                                                        Jan. 2001
Planning & Assessment      G      NS            2            $67                      Invitation      Feb. 2001       March 2001        April 2001
Office Eq.                                                                      To Quote
Jan. 2001                           _
Deliver Labor Redeployment    G      IS           1            $80                      Invitation      Feb. 2001       March 2001         May2001
Services Off Eq                                                                   To Quote
Jan. 2001
PCU Office Eq.         G       NS           3            $120                     Invitation       Feb. 2001       March 2001         April 20
(throughout                               To Quote
life of                                 Jan. 2001
project)                               (Ist package)
Services
Job Loss Compensation +   TA/   QCBS             I          $2,181.7      SPN:         Feb.2001        Issue RFP        June 2001           July
Labor Redeployment       TR                                           Dec. 2000                      Feb.2001                             2004
+ Social Monitoring.                                                     SL                         Proposal due
Jan. 2001                    April 2001
Eval/Recomm
May 2001
Social Impact of Economic    TA    QCBS          1           $196.9        SPN:        Feb.2001        Issue RFP        June 2001            July
Reform Program                                                      Dec. 2000                      Feb.2001                             2002
SL                        Proposal due
Jan. 2001                    April 2001
Eval/Recomm
May 2001
National Social Assistance  TA    QCBS           1           $189.1        SPN:        Feb.2001        Issue RFP        June 2001         July 2002
System                                                          Dec. 2000                      Feb.2001
SL                        Proposal due
Jan. 2001                    April 2001
Ev a !/R ec om.m.
l  l  l  l     l             l           |               |   May 2001     |
63



Description         Type   Proc.       Proposed      Estimated   Invitation     BID Docs/    Bid/RFP          contract         contract
Method    Number of    Total Cost   GPN/SPN           RFP         1. opening      signing          complete
Packages     (US$000)   Local ad        1. prepar.    2.evaluation
2. Does. Issued  3.Recomm
for award                        ________
Privatization Impact    TA    QCBS            l           $612.5        SPN:        Feb.2001        Issue RFP        June 2001         July 2004
Dec. 2000                     Feb.2001
SL                        Proposal due
Jan. 2001                    April 2001
Eval/Recomm
May 2001
Project Mgt.         TA       IC           1            $110                                                      Dec. 2000        Dec. 2002
Specialist (Int'l)
PCU Staff (loc)        TA      IC           5            $564                                                      Dec.2000          Dec. 2004
(1) Financial
(2) Procurement
(3) Reporting/Communications
(4) Translator
(5) Staff Assistant
PCU Staff           TR                 Several         $32                          As identified for the first 3 years of the project
International Training
PCU Staff           TR                 Several         $32                          As identified throughout the life of the project.
Local Training
Other                                                    .              l              l_l_l
Job Loss Compensation    Paymen   N/A        Several      $322,310.1               Demand driven, as identified throughout the life of the project.
Payments                                                                    Disbursement expected during the first three years of the project.
Labor Redeployment Services Services  Para.     Several       $25,865                 Demand driven, as identified throughout the life of the project
3.15                                               Disbursement expected over the four years of the project.
Guidelines
Incremental Operating Costs         NBF                        $360
64



Table C: Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement Review
ICB                 NCB                 IS                NS            Minor Works            Other Methods           Percentage of loan amount subject to prior
review
Goods
Procurement                                                      Below $100,000   Below $50,000                                                    25%
thresholds: Individual
and aggregate                                                   Aggregate:        Aggregate:
$0.15 million    $0.1Smillion
Prior Review                                                    First 2 contracts  First 2 contracts
QBCS                  QB            Fixed Budget        Least Cost         Consultant               Single-                       Individual Consultants
(firms)                                 (firms)                           Qualifications            Source
Consultants            Aggregate:                                                                                                                  Aggregate:
$3.20 million                                                                                                               $0.67 million
Prior Review           TOR and RFP                                                                                                                 TOR and qualifications for all assignment
packages for all                                                                                                            contracts above $30,000
contracts
Ex-post Review         Ex-post review mechanism: Review carried out in accordance with Para. 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency In Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
Brief statement
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the Privatization Agency (PA). The PA will be supported by Technical Assistance consisting of: Procurement Specialist, Financial
Management and communication/reporting staff and support staff (these positions must be advertised) plus an international Project Management Specialist will provide short term assistance.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy   Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by negotiations ? Yes[]  No [X)
Paper status. A CPAR was conducted in 1997. A new CPAR is scheduled     RFPs and bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being prepared and will be ready by Loan effectiveness.
for October 2000. The Govemment will follow the agreed Bank procurement   (TORS for TA are drafted, as are all procedures for Labor Redeployment Services, and were agreed during negotiations.)
procedurcs as described in this document and in the Loan.
65



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Start-up Mission/Launch Workshop: January 2001
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: November 2000.
Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes [XI  No [ ]
Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes [ I   No [XI
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: Yes [ ]  No [X1
Retroactive financing: Yes IX]    No [ ]                                   Explain:
Advance procurement: Yes      No [XI
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. There is one package above
mandatory review thresholds by RPA. The PA will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated
quarterly as part of the PMR. Procurement information will be recorded by the PA and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This information will include:
revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, anid completion time for individual contracts; as well as
compliance with aggregate limits (within 15%/o) on specific methods of procurement
Co-financing:. No
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Name: E. Villatoro and D. Fretwell (TA only)    Ext: 3-2486
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement : Only if required
66



Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits). A mid-term review is scheduled for November 2002.
Disbursement
Table C: Allocation of Proceeds
w . . . . - ~~~~~thousamrds-..~? -;,-,
1. Goods                                               250.0 100% of foreign expenditure;
100% of local expenditures (e:x-
factory); and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
procured locally
2. Consultant Services & Training                     3,150.0             89%
3. Job Loss Compensation Payments under            203,055.0              70%
Part A.1 of the Project
4. Labor Redeployment Services under Part           16,295.0              70%
B.2 of the Project
5. Front End Fee (1%)                                2,500.0
5. Unallocated                                      24,750.0
Total                                              250,000.0
67



Annex (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
1.    Summary of Financial Management Assessment: The Project was reviewed in detail
by a Bank FMS during pre-appraisal and a detailed action plan was developed to ensure that an
adequate financial management system is in place prior to Board presentation (see Chapter E,
Section 4.4). During project life, an FMS will take part in supervision missions to monitor the
FM of the PMU and ensure compliance with ongoing FM covenants. A recent review by the
project FMS confirmed that the FM system fully satisfies the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements.
2.    Auditing: The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for ensuring that the
financial statement, Special Account, and SOEs are audited by an auditor, acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with standards on auditing that are acceptable to the Bank. The negotiations
confirmed that auditing services for the Project will be provided by the Treasury Controller and
are not financed by the Bank.
3.    Disbursement Arrangements: While an acceptable disbursement mechanism based on
PMRs is not in place, disbursements will take place using the traditional disbursement
mechanism. All disbursements against contracts for goods costing US$ 100,000 or more
equivalent, services for consulting firms costing US$60,000 or more and individual consultants
costing US$30,000 or more, as well as audit fees, training and incremental operating costs will
be fully documented. Disbursements below these thresholds will be made against certified
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). This documentation will be made available for the required
audit as well as to the Bank supervision mission, and will be retained by the PCU for at least one
year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was
made. The processing, disbursement and monitoring of the allocations of the proceeds of the
Loan and Borrower counterpart financing would be managed by the PCU in coordination and
consultation with the Undersecretariat of Treasury.
A review of the Financial Management System was undertaken to: (a) review the
presence of the necessary elements for sound project financial management system, such as
internal controls, project accounting, project staffing and audit arrangements; (b) assess the
project's capacity and readiness for the implementation of LACI; and (c) prepare a time-bound
action plan for strengthening the financial management system to achieve compliance with
minimum LACI standards. This action plan has now been carried out.
4.    Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, the Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate
Special Account denominated in US dollars to be managed by the PCU. The minimum amount
of the application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. The replenishment applications
should be submitted by the PCU on a monthly basis, and must include reconciled bank
statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. A conversion account (USD to
Turkish Lira) may also be established, as well as separate accounts for Government contributions
(USD and conversion). The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$20
million. However, during the initial stage of the project, an amount limited to US$10 million
will be deposited in the Special Account. When the aggregate amount of disbursement realizes
US$40 million, the amount deposited in the Special Account will be increased to the full
authorized allocation of US$20 million. The Special Account will be audited annually by
68



auditors acceptable to the Bank. At the present time, these audits are performed by the Treasury
Department for all Bank projects in Turkey.
5.    Project Management and Coordination and Staffing: The Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) will be directly responsible for financial management during project life. The PCU will
be overseen by the Privatization Administration. The PCU has recruited a full-time project
Financial Management Department Head. In addition, a project accountant, financed by the
project, who has advanced level training in finance and accounting, will be recruited. The
project accountant would be responsible for financial management and control under the Project
itself and would report to the Financial Management Department Head. To ensure the
appropriate segregation of duties, transaction processing staff will be responsible for the primary
data entry for each of the components once the project becomes operational. The overall
operating budget for the PCU will be approximately US$ 1.1 million over the term of the Project.
6.    Accounting: A project financial and accounting system has been selected, based on the
needs of the Project. The system to be used has, inter alia, an accounting and internal control
system with the capacity to record and retrieve in a timely manner, all financial and procurement
transactions under the Project. The system will: (a) record and reports all assets, liabilities, and
financial transactions and procurement activity of the Project; and (b) provide reliable financial
informnation for managing and monitoring project activities. The accounting system (chart of
accounts) will be classified by component and category of expenditure, and is able to capture
data by sub-component at the level of individual activities. It will also reflect the various sources
of funds. Furthermore, the system will provide information on the receipt and use of funds and
will be able to produce financial reports comparing budget with actual expenditures at any given
time. The system will provide financial data to measure performance when linked to the outputs
of the Project.
7.    Financial Reporting: The Government will be responsible for the appropriate
accounting of the funds provided by the IBRD under the Loan, for reporting on the use of these
funds, and for ensuring that audits of the financial statements or reports are submitted to the
Bank. A computerized accounting system is being established at the PCU. Once trained, the
Accountants at the PCU would maintain and prepare quarterly financial reports as part of Project
Management Reports. Although an acceptable financial management system has been
established, disbursements will start using traditional disbursements methods -- SOEs
reimbursements, direct payments, etc. After the PCU has gained experience with the financial
management system and reporting under project management reports (PMRs), and provided that
the financial management system is reviewed and found capable of handling it, the project Awill
consider moving to PMR-based disbursements. The PCU will maintain accounts for the Project
and will be responsible for preparing Project Management Reports (PMR -- see Annex 9 of the
Project Financial Management Manual) on a quarterly basis, and furnish to the Bank not later
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a PMR for such period, which:
(a) (i) sets forth actual sources and application of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for
the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the project
for the six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows separately
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month
period following the period covered by said report;
69



(b) (i) describes physical progress in project implementation, both cumulatively and for the
period covered by said report, and (ii) explains variances between the actual and previously
forecast implementation targets; and
(c) sets forth the status of procurement under the project and expenditures under contracts
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
8.    Project Operational Manual (POM): The POM was agreed during negotiations, and
includes the financial management policy and procedures manual developed during the course of
establishing the financial management system. This manual comprises: (a) special emphasis on
accounting and auditing policies, standards and internal controls; (b) the role of the financial
management systems in project management and implementation; (c) the accounting
arrangements required for project management, including the format for and content of project
financial reporting; and (d) the auditing arrangements that will be used during project
implementation.
70



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
Project Schedule                    Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  Eight months
First Bank mission (identification)      June 20, 2000           June 20, 2000
Appraisal mission departure              July 19, 2000           July 20, 2000
Negotiations                             September 18, 2000      Oct. 23, 2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness            January 2001
Prepared by: David H. Fretwell, Task Team Leader, ECSHD
Preparation assistance: Carmen Laurente, Program Assistant, ECSHD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                  Specialty
David Herbert Fretwell, ECSHD          Task Team Leader
Hjalte Sederlof, ECSHD                 Principal Operations Officer/PTL
Darrell Prokopetz, ECSHD               Social Protection Specialist
Virginia Jackson, ECSHD                Senior Operations Officer
Evelyn Villatoro, ECSHD                Procurement Specialist
Dominic Haazen, ECSHD                  Financial Management Specialist
Carmen Laurente, ECSHD                 Program Assistant
Ferda Sahmali, ECSHD, Ankara           Operations Officer
Ibrahim Akcayoglu, ECSHD, Ankara       Operations Officer
Jeanine Braithwaite, ECSPE             Economist
Robert Gourley, PSDCR                  Senior Private Sector Development Specialisit
Dilek Barlas, LEGEC                    Senior Counsel
Rohit Mehta, LOAEL                     Senior Disbursement Officer
71



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
A. Project Implementation Plan (Project Operational Manual)
A Project Implementation Plan (Project Operational Manual-POM) has been jointly
prepared by the Borrower and Bank team, and agreed during negotiations. The POM contains,
for each component: detailed objectives, activities, implementation procedures, performance and
outcome indictors, implementation schedules, performance and output indicators, terms of
reference for all technical assistance, detailed budgets, and procurement arrangements. The
POM also contains the LACI action procurement, financial, and reporting. Finally, the POM
contains a detailed Field Operational Manual for operation of Labor Redeployment Services.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
The Financial Assessment and Project Management/Procurement Assessment were
completed with the Government during appraisal by FMS and PAS staff and are on file.
C. Other
The initial sector report titled "Policy Options to Address the Social Impact of Economic
Reform-Turkey" February 17, 2000, and updated chapters were created during appraisal, July
20, 2000).
*Including electronic files
72



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TURKEY: Privatization Social Support Project
Status of Bank Group Operations (Operations Portfolio)
As of Date 11/09/2000
Closed   119
Projects
Active Proiects                                                                                                                                                        Difference Between
Last PSR                                                                                          Expected 2nd
Actual
Supervision Rating b/                  Original Amount in US$ Millions                         Disbursements'
Project ID   Project Name                                            Development  Implementatio  Fiscal Year           IBRD       IDA  GRANT         Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.       Frm
Obiectives     n Progress                                                                                   Rev'd
P009044    AGRIC RES                                                       S              S            1992               55         0         0           6         7       13         7
P009093    ANTALYA WATER SUPPLY                                            S              S            1995               100        0         0           0      65.3      32.9        0
P009089    BASIC ED I                                                     HS              S            1998              300         0         0           0     178.1      173         0
P044175    BIODIVERSITY/NRMGT                                              S              S            2000                 0        0       8.2           0       7.7      -0.1        0
P009065    BURSA WATER & SANITA                                            S              S            1993             129.5        0         0          20         6      22.9     -1.3
P008985    CESME W.S. & SEWER.                                             S              S            1998              13.1        0         0           0      11.7       4.9        0
P048851     COMMODITIES.MKT.DEV.                                           S              S            1999                4         0         0           0       3.4       2.5        0
P009023    E ANATOLIA WATERSHED                                            S              S            1993               77         0         0           0       24       35.3      0.1
P065188    EFIL                                                            S              S            2000             252.5        0         0           0    209.3    -43.1          0
P068394    EMG. EARTHQUAKE RECOV. - EERL                                   S              S            2000             252.5        0        0            0        0         0         0
P058877    EMGY FLOOD RECOVERY                                             S              S            1999              369         0         0           0    235.5    179.8       85.3
P009064    EMPLOYMENT & TRG                                                U              S            1993               67         0         0           0      26.4      26.4        0
P068792    ERL                                                             S              S            2000             759.6        0         0           0       375       125        0
P009076    HEALTH II                                                       U              S            1995               150        0         0           0      70.9      96.2      5.2
P009073    INDUSTRIAL TECH                                                 S              S            1999               155        0         0           0     143.2      -2.4        0
P068368    MARMARA EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUC.                        S              S            2000              505         0         0           0    449.7    229.7          0
P048852    NAT'L TRNSM GRID                                                S              S            1998              270         0         0           0    269.8    166.9          0
P038404    ODS PHASEOUT 2                                                  S              S            1996                 0        0        14           0       7.4       7.4        0
P009095    PRIM HEALTH CARE SER                                            S              S            1997              14.5        0         0           0      14.2      14.2        5
P009102    PRIV IMPLMT                                                     U              U            1994                 0        0         0           0         0         0        0
P009072    PRIV. OF IRRIGATION                                             S              S            1998               20         0         0           0      13.6      10.9      2.1
P035759    PUBLIC FINAN. MGT.                                              S              S            1996               62         0         0           5      41.8      46.8     14.4
P038091     ROAD IMPR. & SAFETY                                            S              S            1996              250         0         0           0      88.5      91.1        0
P009071    TEK RESTRUCT                                                    S              S            1991              300         0         0        26.7      20.7      47.4     35.4
Result                                                                                                 Result          4105.8        0      22.2         57.7   2269.3   1280.8    153.2
73



Turkey
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 08/31/2000
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                     Disbursed
FY Approval                                           Company          Loan  Equity Quasi Partic  Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1998                                                  AdanaCement          15      0      0     10    15       0     0     10
0/98                                                  AltematifBank      14.44      0     0     12   9.44      0     0     12
1995/96                                               Areelik            38.75     0      0   17.2  38.75      0     0   17.2
2000                                                  Arcelik LG Klima   12.98      0     0   8.64  12.98      0     0   8.64
1994/97                                               Assan               6.26     0   4.5       5   6.26      0   4.5      5
2000                                                   Banvit               20      5     0      0      0      0     0      0
1994/96/97                                            Borcelik              0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0
1995/96                                               CBS Boya Kimya        0   0.65      0      0      0   0.65     0      0
1994                                                  CBS Holding           4      0      0      0      4      0     0      0
1996                                                  CBS Printas            0   0.62     0      0      0   0.62     0      0
1992                                                  Cayeli Bakir        16.8     0      0      0   16.8      0     0      0
1994                                                  Cerrahogullari      0.61      0     0      0   0.61      0     0      0
1990/93                                               Conrad                0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0
1997/98                                               Demir Leasing       4.44      0     0      0   4.44      0     0      0
0/94/96                                               Demirbank             21      0     0     11    21       0     0      11
1989                                                  Edime               1.21     0      0      0   1.21      0     0      0
1995                                                  Ekspres Bank        1.43     0      0      0   1.43      0     0      0
1993/96                                               Eldor               3.76     0      0      0   3.76      0     0      0
1988/93196                                            Elginkan            9.58     0      0   0.76   9.58      0     0   0.76
1995                                                  Entek               24.5     0      0  24.84   24.5      0     0  24.84
1997/98                                               Finans Leasing      4.44     0      0      0   4.44      0     0      0
1992/99                                               Finansbank            10      0     0    35      10      0     0     35
1994/98/00                                            Garanti Leasing     3.91     0      0  23.88   3.91      0     0  23.88
1994/95/96                                            Global Security        0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0
1999                                                  Gumussuyu Kap         4       0  2.55      0      4      0  2.55      0
1998                                                  Indoramalplik        10   0.66      0      0     10   0.66     0      0
1998/00                                               IpekPaper             0      0      0     15      0      0     0     15
2000                                                  Isiklar Ambalaj        0      0    10      0      0      0     7      0
1994/98                                               Isviere Hayat         0   0.08      0      0      0   0.08     0      0
1990                                                  Kepez Elektrik     12.35     0      0      0  12.35      0     0      0
1988/90                                               Kiris               7.88     0      0      0   7.88      0     0      0
1996                                                  Kocbank             7.14     0      0      0   7.14      0     0      0
1996                                                  Koclease            8.57     0      0      0   8.57      0     0      0
1992/97                                               Korfezbank          10.5     0      0   18.5   10.5      0     0   18.5
1990/92                                               Koy-Tur                0     0      0      0      0      0     0      0
1991                                                  Kula                4.47      0     0      0   4.47      0     0      0
1993/96                                               Medya                  0      0  4.99      0      0      0  4.99      0
1998                                                  Modem Karton         20      0      0     10    20       0     0     10
1991                                                  NASCO              10.18      0     0   3.55  10.18      0     0   3.55
1998                                                  Ottoman              20      0      0     80    20       0     0     80
1997                                                  Oyak Bank             10      0     0     10    10       0     0     10
1998                                                  Pasabahce-Schott   13.35      0     0  13.35  13.35      0     0  13.35
1983/94/98                                            Pinar ET              11      0     0      0     11      0     0      0
1994/00                                               Pinar SUT          14.24     0      0      0      0      0     0      0
0/97                                                  Rant Leasing        2.15      0     0      0   2.15      0     0      0
1999                                                  SAKoSa             21.18     0      0  20.72  21.18      0     0  20.72
1986/90                                               Silkar Turizm       3.23      0     0   3.68   3.23      0     0   3.68
1993/96                                               SiseVeCam           9.14      0     0  12.18   9.14      0     0  12.18
1998                                                  Soktas              10.5      0     0      0   10.5      0     0      0
1996                                                  TCRA                  0    0.1      0      0      0   0.05     0      0
1995                                                  TDD                  0.8      0     0      0    0.8      0     0      0
1999                                                  TEB Finansal           5      0     0      0      5      0     0      0
1994                                                  Tekfen              0.71     0      0      0   0.71      0     0      0
1997                                                  Toprak Leasing      2.67     0      0      0   2.67      0     0      0
1979/82/83/89/91/96/99                                TrakyaCam             0   1.18      0      0      0   1.18     0      0
1995/99                                               Turk Ekon Bank        15     0      0    20      15      0     0     20
2000                                                  Turkish Banks         33      0     0      0      0      0     0      0
74



1993/98                                             Turkiye Garanti    16.36    0     0  77.73  16.36      0     0  77.73
1999                                                Unye Cement       19.09     0    0       0  19.09      0     0      0
1999                                                Uzel                20      0     0    15   7.94       0     0   5.96
1970/71/82/83/98                                    Viking            10.92     0    0       0  10.92      0     0      0
1995                                                Yalova Acrylic      2.5     0    0   1.33    2.5       0     0   1.33
1997/98                                             Yapi Kredi Lease    3.01    0     0      0   3.01      0     0      0
0                                                   ALease             4.44      0     0     0   4.44      0     0      0
1994                                                AYTAC              4.67     0     0   5.83   4.67      0     0   5.83
Total Portfolio:                         561.16   8.29 22.04 455.19 476.86   3.24 19.04 446.15
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
2000 Pinar Sea         4000      0    0      0
2000 BICT             20000      0  5000     0
1999 CBS Group Restr   5800     0     0      0
1995 ENTEK - KOC          0     0    0 15000
1999 Ege Seramik      18000  5000     0      0
2000 Erbakir           5000      0  5000     0
Total Pending Commitment:                      52800  5000 10000 15000
75



Annex 10: Country At A Glance
Turkey at a glance                                                                 8131/00
Europ,&   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Cetttrai   middle-
Turkey       Asia  Income        Developmerit dlamond
19S9
Population, mki-year (MiXons)                           64.3        476     2,094                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita /Alas method, USS)                      2,900      2.150      1.200
GNP eAtlas method, US$ bllforns)                       186.6      1,022     2.513
Average annual growth, 1993-9S
PoPulation (%)                                           1.5        0.1        1.1 \
Labor force(X)                                           2.6        0.6  1.     2      GNP            .'                Gross
per           .        -       primary
Most recnt estimate (latst year available, 1993-99)                                    capita         \,    -       enrottment
Poverty f ofPopulation below natfonaf povefy Pone)         -
Urban poputaton % of total opulation)                     74         67        43
Life expectancy Ct birth (yee-)                           69         69        69
Infant mota  (per 1.000 ve bAtihsa                        38         22        33
Child malnlutirtion (5 oftren untder 5)                    0          8        15                Access to safe water
Access to itnproved water source (f of popquhaon)         ..         ..        86
illiteracy ( ofi opulation age 1$+)                       15          3        16
Gross primary enrollment (5 ofschool-age Population)     107        100       114                 Turkey
Mate                                                   111       101        114            -   Lower-middfe-income group
Female                                                 104         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENOS
1979     1989       1998      '199
EconomIc ratloa'
GOP (US$ bfl%ons)                             91.7    107.1       201.2     185.7
Gross domestic investment/GDP                  14.1     23.5       24.2      23.3
Exports of goods and serviceesGOP               3,1     16,2       24.3      23.2                      Trade
Gros domesk sravingeiGOP                       11.5     21.9       20.6       19.6
Gross natonal savings/GOP                      14.4     26.6       25.9      23.5
Curent account balance/GDP                     -1.5      6,9        1.0       4.7      Ooestic
Interest paymentsJGOP                           0.3      2.5        17        2.4     S                             Investent
Total debtGOP                                  17.4     38.6       48.2      54.8      Si                           I
Total debt servce/exporls                      28.7     32.4       26,5      34.8
Present value of debtGOP                          .        ..      49.9
Present value of debt/exports                    ..        .      160,9
Indebtedness
197949   19B9^99     1994       1999   1999403
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   5.0       4.0      3.        -5.1       5,5                 Turkey
GNP per capita                        2.4       2.5      2.3       -7.8       4.1                 Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services           .-    11.0      12.0       -7.0        5.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%I
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    27.9     17.4       18.5      15.8      20
Industry                                      23.8      32.8       25.0      24.3      20
Manufactunng                                 16.0     21.4        15.5      14.6
Services                                      48.3      49.8       56.5      60.0      2095   96   97
Private consumption                            77.0     68.8       66.7      65.2    .40
Generalgovemmentconsumption                    11.5      9.3       12.7      15.2                   GDI          c GDP
Imports of goods and serviCes                   5.7     17.8       27.9      26.9
19794-9  1989-99       1998      1999      Gmwtho ofexportsandImports*%
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     1.1      1.6        9.3       -5.2    40
Industry                                        7.3      4.5        1.8      -6.7    20
Manufacturng                                  7.5       5.4        1.0      -6.0
Services                                        4.0      4.0        3.1      -3.9      0
Private consumption                              ..      4.0        0.1      -3.9   -20             9      6
General govemment consumption                    ..      4.0        7.8       6.5
Gross domestc investment                          .      4.6       -1.4      -9.5   .4
Imports of goods and services                    .      11.1        2.3      -3.7                   Exporrs    O-Imports
Gross national product                          4.9      4.1        3.9      -6.4
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
* The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
76



Turkey
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dlomestic prices                              1979      1989      1998      1999      Inflation I%)
(% change)                                                                           150
Consumer prices                                                                              .0783.0  83.7  63.5  1
Implicit GDP deflator                         75.8      75.7       75.7      56.2     S0-
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                  ..    21.5        24.6      25.4             94   95   96   97   9B   99
Current budget balance                           ..      4.2       -5.7    -14.4                   GDp deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..    -5.2       -13.4    -23.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (ob)                            2,261   11,780     31,221    29,326 m0l000
Textiles                                     428    3,911      10,510     9,830
Processed agricultural products             1,081    1,971      2,141     1,840                                  *    "
Manufactures                                1,732   10,437     23,873    23,755
Total imports (cif)                           5,069   15,792     45,921    40,693
Food                                           85      890        510       444     20,000    _       
Fuel and energy                             1,817    3,406      4,501     5,376
Capital goods                               1,403    3,953     11,033     9,062        0  _         _a   m    ._     _ 
Export price index (1995= 100)                   ..      85         87        82            93  94  95  9S  97  go  99
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..       90        86        84                  E Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       94        101       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                2,969   17,612      52,037    44,548     2
Imports of goods and services                5,182   18,464      55,299    48,726
Resource balance                             -2,213     -852     -3,262    -4,178
Net income                                   -1,009   -1,745      -481    -2,361      0
Netcurrenttransfers                           1,810    3,558      5,727     5,175
Current account balance                      -1,412     961       1,984    -1,364    -2 -
Financing items (net)                        1,300    1,801      -1,537     6,570
Changes in net reserves                        112   -2,762       -447    -5,206      4 l
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..   9,283       29,499    34,128
Conversion rate (DEC, locaLUUSS)               31.1    2,122    259,627   416,686
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         15,929   41,577     96,906   101,781
IBRD                                         890    5,869      3,304     2,902                        107  990
IDA                                          190      162        112       107                 2902            3783
Total debt service                            1,340    7,092     16,513    18,316          23472                     8237
IBRD                                         105    1,010        924       845
IDA                                            3        6          7         7
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               52       95         37        80
Official creditors                           964      -555      -118      -760
Private creditors                          3,068    1,631       -153    -3,269
Foreign direct investment                     75      663        573       138
Portfolio equity                               0       56       2,888    -1,727                             62390
World Bank program
Commitments                                  306      604        956      1,165     A-IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                280      419        271       384      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          36      506        684       616      C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    244       -87      -414      -232
Interest payments                             72      510        246       236
Net transfers                                172      -597      -660      -468
Development Economics                                                                                                    8/31/00
77






IBRRD 2411 0
-W L G A R I A S a7,> B-::                            t X::        zg: i  3-:1:                                                                                                                                                           :f,  0n:;  .. 1'::  : ::   ! :;  {  10 GEORGIA r_
L G A RI
IR <8                                                                               fA CLRE                                                                                       BoybLT A:
GREECE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~<ThaAR 
/  ANARKALE  -              A                                                                                  C                                                                          AAoI                               * ~~~~~~~~PAZR            \AZHAE40
)-                                                                                                                                                                                                          ZUbR  UT    O?        <    ; \ )         A   1!g \;t B l!l2  rX\ _ -
cn       AtCR                                                                           CANERINANoK:aoar !,aIk
;S EHIR  '                                            1MR  A-r KII/AL    Y'Z  rAS
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
AYDH                                                                           YA                              DE                                                                                                               A
_< 0 ^ ; 0 0 ;, 0 ;5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erA                                                            TA t; Nb        P          OPULATION CENTERS    6.4 ,riIIio           INTERNIATIONAL HIGHWAYS
'_'_-___KAAKHSIN_|_____f______________A,__f;______________                                                   ;                                                                                                            _________ mil  STAE HIGI-WAYS35
' * > ~ .r ^ g 'RESSIA                                                                                                                                                                                  .  || :   0:    :;          1/. ;;  -2.5 mriion~  ) PROVINCE CAPITALS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                                                                       I 
'~Sb R~ ~ t POETAr,,T..-- _< s. g,eRb A U h                                                                                                             \               ~75                       : . : ' .   /f \,T0E '            INTER 300,600  - - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
B/,~.-k  L,,  HSOTKA-011                                               F                    5L T40-i                                                                                                               RAIVEROAS
-AI,  TURKET Y          s,    -       H *eRrae  mY,Rer    L6V.eYES.RT PAA; C       " I                                                                                                              0   IT  20  3T  40  50 ITILOMETEAS
~ t '. aLy, - - A A ASERP>N    I     [ A Q )   e,4eeI,   VRP    !2M       :? rpH         ,>             .                                  f  :7     35a                                                   40                                                    SPEOE  R
T- v c*mS    RANS  EVATTA J,IR 4eV' IFRepapE                                  II :IRPO



