                                                                                                                               87170
                                                                                                                         CO~lAL,
                                                                                                                               lEI2s2oooW500
                                                                                                                        December 20, 2000
                                                                                                                             04:00:10PM




Statement by Franco Passacantando
Date of Meeting: December 21, 2000

                           Turkey: Country Assistance Strategy, Financial Sector
                       Adjustment Loan, and Privatization Social Support Project



1.      We broadly share the Bank's view on Turkey's progress and on the reasons for the recent
banking crisis. Turkey represents an important emerging market in the global economy; and
deserves the appropriate support and attention. However, the recent financial crisis clearly
highlighted the weaknesses of the Turkish economy and its vulnerability to shocks. It is
commendable that the Bank had clearly perceived these weaknesses before the onset of the crisis
and had prepared a strategy with a very comprehensive set of structural reforms to deal with
them. We wonder however whether the changes made lately in the projections of the main
macroeconomic indicators should have been accompanied with changes in the features of that
strategy, particularly after the crisis has erupted. In addition, we wonder whether to restore
confidence in the financial markets the reform program that was envisaged before the crisis
should be accelerated and deepened. This issue can be looked at by considering separately the
following three aspects.

Mitigating the real impact of the macroeconomic adjustment program

2.      Recent data show that inflation is expected to be above the target and the current account
deficit has deteriorated further. Furthermore, the uncertainties generated by the crisis may result
in an economic slowdown due to fall in demand, higher financing costs and deterioration of
consumer and investor confidence. In this context, it is important that the Government of Turkey
strengthens the commitment to fiscal consolidation and monetary stability. Since the crisis will
inevitably have a negative impact on unemployment and on social conditions in the poorest
areas, we wonder whether the Bank should have further strengthened the component of the
strategy directed at alleviating poverty, particularly by scaling up the programs in health,
education, and gender issues.

Strengthening the reforms in the Turkish banking system

3.     The latest developments in Turkey show that the momentum in the banking system
reform has not been maintained, and weaknesses have not been addressed properly, thereby


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    2



exposing banks to increased vulnerability. It is now crucial that the program of restructuring
and privatization of the banking sector be accelerated and strictly followed, in order to reassure
confidence in the financial markets. We broadly concur with the Bank's program and consider
imperative the need for a substantial improvement of surveillance and control, ranging from
bank examination procedures, mandatory asset ratios, disclosure provisions, securities laws, and
moral suasion. Given the weaknesses that exist in the supervisory regulatory framework and the
enforcement capacities, we are concerned regarding the timely implementation of the
privatization and resolution plan, the involvement of strategic investors, and the sustainability of
the banking system network. As we already stated in the past, we feel uncomfortable with the
explosively increasing volume of derivatives, including repos and swaps in the banks' balance
sheets, and the risks associated with them and related products. We think the World Bank should
actively support banks' programs to adequately measure their exposures and value-at-risk under
different scenarios, including ones that would imply substantial deterioration of market
conditions. We also believe that the IFC's technical expertise in support of the resolution,
commercialization and privatization process is necessary. Another crucial aspect is that of the
cross-shareholding between the financial sector and large industrial groups, which, as it now
clearly appears, has generated a number of severe distortions.

4.      A broader question that we have is the extent of the support that the Banking
system needs. Unfortunately the experience of most countries that have suffered from
crises in the financial sector shows that early estimates of their costs proved insufficient It
is therefore important that an assessment of the gravity of the problems that the banking
system faces be soon undertaken. In addition, it will be important to have a full picture of the
overall fiscal implications and budgetary costs of the bank restructuring and privatization well in
advance of the "Bank Restructuring and Privatization Project".

5.     Given the structure of the financial markets in Turkey, we are also concerned about the
extent of contagion effects to healthy banks and other financial institutions. We also wonder
whether enough information is available to assess the quality of their balance sheet and the level
of risk exposures, particularly with the introduction of the new standard rules on foreign
exchange and lending exposure limits, capital adequacy and the evaluation of risks and
performance on consolidated basis. This becomes even more critical in a situation of excessive
lending under which banks may have overstreched themselves to certain sectors.

6.       Integrity and transparency. We strongly appreciate the emphasis given to this issue. In
banking, trust and confidence are ethical standards that cannot be compromised. It seems that
many of the failed banks are involved in corruption allegations and certainly in mismanagement
practices. We want to make very clear that sincerity, cooperation, transparency, and disclosure
of information play key roles in resolving the problems we are facing. Financial institutions
cannot maximize the long-run values if they don't promote greater transparency of market risks
and ethical behavior. Therefore, we urge the authorities that the illegal practices on financial and
banking activity should be addressed immediately. Failure to deal with this issue in a transparent
way would be a serious setback to the program and a blow to Turkey's efforts to attract foreign
capital.

Implementation, monitoring, and enforcement

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                    3




7.     We share the Management's concern regarding the implementation capacities and most
importantly the timely enforcement of the new rules. Inadequate implementation of the
program's actions could result in costly failures, further bureaucratic inefficiency and political
influence, and strong market pressures. We also understand that additional efforts, including
technical assistance are needed for the implementation, monitoring and enforcing of the
regulatory system, and would strongly encourage the Bank Group's involvement in this area.

8.      The need to accelerate the privatization process is clearly stated in the documents and
incorporated into the triggers. This task becomes even more important after the crisis. The
Authorities seem to have agreed for more substantial efforts towards liberalization on the
telecommunication and power sector, a process that will strengthen foreign involvement into the
privatization. Given the agriculture share of GNP and the low productivity in this sector, we
welcome the strong CAS focus on rural and agriculture development. However, close
monitoring and technical expertise in this process is necessary. In addition, fighting corruption
and illegal business practices is a critical element for enhancing economic reforms and
strengthening credibility.

9.     Reducing poverty and inequality remains a great challenge for Turkey. We endorse the
CAS proposal to focus the Bank's program on restoring higher growth, reduce unemployment,
and improve health and education. We also encourage the Bank Group to continue its efforts to
support Turkey's disaster prevention and environmental agenda. In addition, we believe that a
stronger harmonization between Bank Group's lending and non-lending activities is needed.

10.     Finally, while expressing our support for the program we would like to emphasize that
even though Turkey is a large borrower for the Bank, the size of the package is substantial and
quite ambitious. We strongly believe that the World Bank Group can greatly contribute to the
reform process in Turkey, particularly in the difficult structural reforms and in the financial
sector development, which should have a high priority within the agenda of the region and the
Financial Sector Department.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
