Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4587 TU 
Loan Agreement
(Privatization Social Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 21, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4587 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  December 21, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
Page  2
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Economic Reform Program” means the program being carried 
out by the Borrower designed to achieve structural adjustment of the 
Borrower’s economy as set forth in the Borrower’s letter to the Bank 
dated March 10, 2000;
(b)
“EKA” means the General Directorate of Economic Research 
within the Undersecretariat of Treasury of the Borrower; 
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and 
(4), set forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
services, job-loss compensation payments and incremental operating costs 
referred to in Section 2.02  of this Agreement;
(e)
“ISKUR”  means the Employment Agency of the Borrower;
(f)
“Interagency Protocol” means the protocol executed among PA, 
ISKUR,   and KOSGEB for the implementation of Part B of the Project, and 
referred to in paragraph 8  of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(g)
“KOSGEB” means the Small and Medium Industry Development 
Organization of the Borrower;
(h)
“Labor Assistance Group” or “LAG” means the labor assistance 
group within PA, or any successor thereto;
(i)
“Labor Law” means the Labor Law of the Borrower, Law No. 
1475, dated August 28, 1971, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(j)
“NGO” means a non-governmental organization;
(k)
“PA” means the Privatization Administration of the Borrower;
(l)
“Privatization Law” means the Law Concerning Arrangements 
for the Implementation of Privatization and Amending  Certain Laws and 
Decrees with Force of Law of the Borrower, Law No. 4046, dated November 
24, 1994, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(m)
“Privatization Program” means the program being carried out 
by the Borrower as part of its Economic Reform Program, through its PA,  
for the privatization of state-owned enterprises, as set forth in the 
Borrower's letter to the Bank dated March 10, 2000; 
(n)
“Project Coordination Unit” or “PCU” means the Project 
Coordination Unit established within PA, or any successor thereto;
(o)
“Project Operational Manual” or “POM” means the operational 
manual adopted by PA on October 27, 2000, setting forth, including the 
principles, procedures and criteria agreed with the Bank for the 
implementation of the Project, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 
to this Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(q)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(r)
“State-owned enterprise” means an enterprise the majority 
share capital of which is owned or controlled by the Borrower as defined 
in the Privatization Law;
(s)
“Service Provider” means a public or private enterprise or 
education or training institution or an NGO that has been selected to 
provide services under Part B of the Project; 
(t)
“SIS” means the State Institute of Statistics of the 
Borrower; 
(u)
“TOBB” means the Union of Chambers of Commerce of the 
Borrower;
(v)
“Tripartite Advisory Committee” means the advisory committee  
referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and
(w)
“TISK” means the Union of the Turkish Employer 
Confederation.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to two hundred fifty  million  Dollars  ($250,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and job-loss 
compensation payments  required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, 
the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from 
and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding 
the next following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
Page  4
in 
Dollars for value the first day of such Interest 
Period 
(or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for 
value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by 
the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per 
annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
made by 
it that include the Loan, as reasonably 
determined by 
the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
through PA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and technical 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PA to maintain a 
financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall cause PA to:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements 
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and 
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such 
statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as 
the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause PA to:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with 
sound accounting practices, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures are retained until at least one year 
after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan 
Account 
was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records.
(d)
The Borrower shall cause PA to:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph 
(c)(i) of this Section and those for the 
Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
Page  6
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by 
said auditors as to whether the Project Management 
Reports or statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as 
the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause PA to carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower cause PA, not later than 
March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of 
which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds 
for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month 
period following the period covered by said 
report, and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered 
by said 
report and expenditures proposed to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month 
period 
following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause PA to prepare, in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar 
quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The POM shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without the prior approval of the Bank.
(b)
Privatization Law or Labor Law of the Borrower shall have 
Page  7
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect 
materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
HAZINE
44232 HZM-TR
(312)212-8550
Hazine, Ankara
44404 HZM-TR
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Page  8
By /s/ A. Umit Gonulal
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ajay Chhibber
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
   250,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(2)
Consultants’
 3,150,000
89%
services and 
training
(3)
Job-loss com-       203,055,000
70% 
pensation 
payments under 
Part A.1
of the Project
(4)
Labor redeployment
16,295,000
70% 
services under 
Part B.2
of the Project
(5)
Fee
 2,500,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
24,750,000
TOTAL
250,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
Page  9
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower; 
(c)
the term “job-loss compensation payments” means severance 
payments, special job-loss compensation payments, social assistance 
payments and other related payments made, in accordance with the 
provisions of Labor Law and Privatization Law, to the workers of  the 
Borrower’s state-owned enterprises, selected pursuant to criteria set 
forth in the POM and being privatized under the Privatization Program; 
and
(d)
the term “training” means training activities (other than 
consultants’ services) to be carried out under the Project, including the 
cost of workshops, related materials and the travel cost and per diem of 
the trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to 
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $24,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after July 31, 2000; and (b) payments made for expenditures under 
Categories (3) and (4) unless the job-loss compensation payment or the 
labor redeployment service has been made in accordance with criteria and 
procedures set forth in the POM and Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services 
of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $60,000 equivalent 
each; (c) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $30,000 equivalent each; (d) job-loss compensation payments; and (e) 
labor redeployment services under Part B.2 of the Project under contracts 
costing less than $60,000 equivalent each, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit 
account, in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management 
Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Page  10
Special Account, the Borrower shall cause PA to, at such time as the Bank 
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall cause PA to, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower through PA, has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall cause PA to, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may through PA, upon notice to the Bank, refund 
to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special 
Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
Page  11
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$20,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, 
that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed 
the equivalent of $40,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals 
to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify.
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall cause PA 
to furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of 
the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of 
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
Page  12
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank 
has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such 
report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in 
the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the achievement of the 
objectives of the Borrower’s Privatization Program, help to mitigate the 
negative social and economic impact of the privatization of state-owned 
enterprises by the Borrower, and monitor the social impact of the 
Economic Reform Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Job Loss Compensation
1.
Provision of job-loss compensation payments to workers of 
state-owned enterprises displaced by labor restructuring as a result of 
the privatization of such state-owned enterprises.
2.
Provision of technical assistance to develop and maintain 
administrative framework to enable the delivery of job-loss compensation 
payments.
Part B:
Labor Redeployment
1.
Provision of technical assistance and goods to develop and maintain 
administrative framework to enable the delivery of redeployment services 
to workers displaced as a result of the privatization of state-owned 
enterprises.
2.
Provision of labor redeployment services, including job counseling, 
temporary community employment, retraining programs, small business 
assistance, incubator services and other related services, through 
Service Providers, to workers displaced as a result of the privatization 
of state-owned enterprises, including secondary layoffs.
Part C:
Social Impact of Economic Reform Program
Provision of technical assistance and goods for: (a) the evaluation 
of the impact of the Economic Reform Program; (b) the analysis of social 
issues and identification of policy alternatives for social assistance; 
and (c) the assessment of the social impact on workers displaced by 
privatization and the evaluation of the net impact of labor redeployment 
services. 
Part D:
Project Management
Provision of support to the PCU and LAG in Project coordination and 
implementation, including the provision of equipment, technical 
assistance and training. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
      Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
Beginning April 15, 2006
10,415,000
through April 15, 2017
       10,415,000
On October 15, 2017
10,455,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars  to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
Page  14
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Part B.2 of the Project
Labor redeployment services under Part B.2 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.15 of the Guidelines following criteria and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM. 
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to first three contracts for each type of labor 
redeployment services under Part B.2 of the Project procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.3 above, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to first two contracts to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part B.1 and 2 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
international and national shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  15
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based selection
Labor redeployment services under Part B.2 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines following criteria and 
procedures acceptable to the Bank and set forth in the POM.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $60,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 
2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 
1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Page  16
A.
Project Management
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through PA in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in the POM, including the 
criteria and procedures of financing from the proceeds of the Loan of 
job-loss compensation payments and labor redeployment services under 
Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall cause PA to, until the completion of the 
Project, maintain the PCU and LAG and shall ensure that PCU and LAG are 
staffed by personnel with qualifications and under terms of reference, 
and functions at all times in accordance with procedures necessary and 
appropriate for the carrying out of the Project, and satisfactory to the 
Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall through PA assign to PCU the responsibility for 
the overall Project implementation, including: (i) preparation of annual 
work programs and associated budgets for the Project, to be reviewed and 
agreed upon with the Bank; (ii) preparation of bidding and contract 
documents and the undertaking of procurement procedures under the 
Project; (iii) maintenance of Project records including the Special 
Account, and arranging for the audit thereof; and (iv) preparation and 
furnishing to the Bank of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Borrower shall through PA cause LAG to be responsible for the 
technical monitoring and administration of the Project.
5.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Bank a Tripartite Advisory Committee, consisting of  representatives from 
Undersecretariat of Treasury, PA, State Planning Organization, KOSGEB, 
ISKUR, TOBB, SIS, TISK and labor unions.   Tripartite Advisory Committee  
shall be responsible for reviewing the progress of Project implementation 
and advising on any policy issues related to the implementation of the 
Project.
B.
Criteria and Procedures under Parts A.1 and B.2 of the Project
6.
Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
ensure the implementation of its Privatization Program in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank including fair and transparent market-based 
tendering procedures and implementation of contracts for sale between the 
Borrower and private sector purchasers.  
7.
The Borrower shall cause PA to select each state-owned enterprise, 
which applies for job-loss compensation payments under Part A.1 of the 
Project, in accordance with criteria as agreed with the Bank and set 
forth in the POM.  Prior to making any withdrawals for job-loss 
compensation payments for a selected state-owned enterprise, PA shall 
notify the Bank the name of the selected state-owned enterprise and the 
number of qualifying workers and provide the Bank with satisfactory 
evidence verifying that: 
(a)
the state-owned enterprise meets the criteria as agreed with 
the Bank and set forth in the POM;
(b)
the procedures as agreed with the Bank and set forth in the 
POM have been followed in the calculation of job-loss compensation 
payments; and
(c)
the selected state-owned enterprise is undergoing a 
transparent, arms-length privatization process, a contract for the sale 
of the selected state-owned enterprise has been entered into with private 
sector purchasers and the contract is being implemented as agreed.
8.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of carrying out of Part B of 
Page  17
the Project, cause PA to: (a) maintain the Interagency Protocol under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank; and (b) 
exercise its rights under the Interagency Protocol in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the 
purposes of Part B of the Project, and except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, suspend, abrogate, terminate or waive the 
Interagency Protocol or any provision thereof.
9.
For the purposes of implementation of Part B of the Project and 
pursuant to the provision of the Interagency Protocol, ISKUR and KOSGEB 
shall: 
(a) 
select Service Providers pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.3 of Section I of Schedule 4 or Part C.1 of Section II of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and in accordance with criteria and procedures acceptable 
to the Bank and set forth in the POM; and 
(b) 
enter into a contract on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including provisions whereby the Service Provider shall be 
required to: (i) carry out labor redeployment services with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
administrative, environmental and technical practices, and provide 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required 
for this purpose; (ii) report periodically to relevant agencies on 
progress in the implementation of activities financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and to enable representatives of such agencies to inspect 
such activities; and (iii) maintain financial records adequate to reflect 
expenditures incurred in connection with the carrying out of such 
activities.
C.
Part C of the Project
10.
Part C of the Project shall be carried out by EKA.  EKA shall, for 
the purposes of implementation of Part C of the Project, cooperate with 
the PCU on the procurement of  consultant services and be responsible for 
the supervision of such services.
D.
Monitoring and Evaluation
11.
The Borrower shall cause PA to:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank, each quarter, commencing on March 31, 2001, a 
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date; 
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank, on or about October 31, 2001, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(d)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2002, or such later 
date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph 
Page  18
(b) of this paragraph and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
