Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25259
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(FSLT-70000)
ONA
LOAN AND A POLICY BASED GUARANTEE
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 505.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
COLOMBIA
FOR A
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT OPERATION
12/26/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 26, 2002)
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso
Colombian Peso 2,819.50 = US$ 1.00
US$ 0.00035 = 1.0 Colombian Peso
FISCAL YEAR
January I --  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP          Administrador de Fondo de Pensiones (Private Pension Fund Administrator)
BCH          Banco Central Hipotecario (State-owned mortgage bank)
BECH         Bancos Especializados en Credito Hipotecario (Mortgage Banks)
BR           Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
CAF          Corporaci6n Andina de Fomento (Andean Development Corporation)
CAMEL        Capital/Assets/Management/Earnings/Liquidity (a bank rating methodology)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CAV          Corporacion de Ahorro y Vivienda (Savings and Loan Corporation)
CF           Corporacion Financiera (Finance Company)
DANSOCIAL Departamento Administrativo Nacional de la Economia Solidaria
CFC          Compania de Financiamiento Comercial (Finance & Leasing Company)
DTF          Dep6sitos a Termino Fijo (Average Rate on Fixed Rate Time Deposits)
EFF          Extended Fund Facility (IMF)
FOGACOOP Deposit Insurance and Resolution Agency for Cooperatives
FOGAFIN      Deposit Insurance and Resolution Agency for Banks and Financial Institutions
FOPEP        Fondo de Pensiones Publico (Public Pension Liability Fund)
FSAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSAP         Financial Sector Assessment Program
IDB          Inter American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
MOP          Memorandum of the President (main loan/project report)
NFPS         Non Financial Public Sector
PBG          Policy Based Guarantee
SBC          Superintendencia Bancaria de Colombia (Banking Superintendency)
TA           Technical Assistance
UPAC         Unidad de Poder Adquisitivo Constante (Price based index for mortages)
UVR          Unidad de Valor Real (Index based on real value of mortgages)
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director.  Isabel Guerrero
Sector Director / Sector Manager:  Danny Leipziger / Fernando Montes-Negret
Task Teamn Leader / ICR TM:  Krishna Challa / John Pollner



COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
AND PO,LLCY BASED GUARANTEE
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                      1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry           2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             11
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              22
6. Sustainability                                                                   23
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   24
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 25
9. Partner Comments                                                                 25
10. Additional Information                                                         30
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                35
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                36
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                39
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               41






Project ID: P063643                                      Project Name: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: John Daniel Pollner                         TL Unit: LCSFF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: December 27, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Financial Sector Adjustment Loan              I/C/TF Number: FSLT-70000
Country/Department: COLOMBIA                                           Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Banking (47%); General finance sector (37%);
Housing finance and real estate markets (6%);
Central government administration (5%); General
agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (5%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/15/1999                            Effective- 12/07/1999
Appraisal:  10/01/1999                               MTR. 11/17/2000
Approval:  11/18/1999                             Closing: 12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA/ FOGAFIN / SBC
Other Partners:  Inter American Development Bank
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        David de Ferranti
Country Manager:     Isabel Guerrero                          Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:      Fernando Montes-Negret                   Augusto de la Torre (Lead Spec.)
Team Leader at ICR:  Krishna Challa & John Pollner            Krishna Challa
ICR Primaty Author:  Manuel Lasaga
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUNN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, WHigh, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainabilitv. L
Institutional Development Impact: H
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector Adjustrnent Loan
(FSAL), for which Loan 7000 - CO in the amount of EUR 477.477 million was approved on November
18, 1999, signed on December 2, 1999, and declared effective on December 7, 1999. The first tranche was



released on December 17, 1999 with all tranche release conditions fully met. The closing date of the FSAL
was December 31, 2001. The FSAL was amended in February 2001 to authorize the Bank to issue a
guarantee in the amount of up to EUR 238.74 million for notes to be issued by the Republic of Colombia in
the intemational financial markets.
The ICR was prepared by Manuel Lasaga (Consultant / Main author) and John Pollner (Lead
Financial Sector Specialist, LCSFF). The ICR was reviewed by Krishna Challa (Sector Leader,
LCSFP/LCC I C) and Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager, LCSFF). Preparation of this ICR was
begun during October 2002. The ICR is based on materials in the project file, interviews with Bank staff
involved in project preparation and implementation, interviews with the Borrower's staff in Colombia. The
Project Executing Unit in the Ministry of Finance prepared the Project Review from the Borrower's
perspective. Comments on the draft ICR received from the Bank reviewers and the Borrower have been
largely incorporated into this final version.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
During the 1990s the Colombian banking system went through a process of consolidation
and entry of foreign financial intermediaries. Prior to the period of consolidation, the financial
system had developed under the specialized banking model according to the following types of
intermediaries: commercial banks, active in both retail and wholesale banking; financial
corporations (corporacionesfinancieras - CFs) engaged mainly in corporate banking; finance and
leasing companies (companias definanciamiento comercial - CFCs); savings and loan
associations (corporaciones de ahorro y viviendas - CAVs, now currently legally named BECHs
or bancos especializados en credito hipotecario); and a cooperative sector comprised of many
small entities. Following a significant economic and legal turmoil in the mid-1990s, that led to
closing and restructuring of some major financial institutions, the sector benefited from positive
rates of economic growth, considerable improvements in the prudential regulations, strengthened
supervision and institutional improvements. A Banking Framework Law approved in 1993 laid the
basis for longer term improvements. By early 1999, the system included 33 commercial banks, 14
CFs, 6 CAVs, and 53 CFCs. Consolidation in the industry was contributing to further reduction in
the number of intermediaries.
After decades of consistently solid growth and prudent economic management, Colombia
entered its worst recession in over sixty years during 1998-1999. GDP growth fell from 3.4% in
1997 to 0.6% in 1998 and -4.2% in 1999. As a result of the economic downturn, the financial
system entered a period of substantial stress. Losses in the banking sector were 1.9 trillion pesos
in 1998 and 2.7 trillion pesos in 1999 -- in the latter year 75% of losses came from the public
banks. The adverse effects were significantly accentuated by turbulence in the global financial
markets which affected most emerging economies in 1998. At the same time, domestic interest
rates jumped in 1998 to very high levels, which intensified credit woes in the financial system. One
of the factors behind the increase in domestic interest rates was the Government's earlier policy of
maintaining the exchange rate within a pre-specified band, and together with reduced access to
external financing, this led to greater reliance on domestic financial markets thus putting upward
pressure on interest rates. Two particularly vulnerable components of the financial system at this
time were the CAVs and the cooperatives.
-2 -



The CAVs or savings and housing loan banks (now known as BECHs) suffered
particularly strong financial shocks on account of four factors: (a) the economic downturn
including unemployment and variable interest rates put many housing loan borrowers in default
with their banks, thus significantly increasing the CAVs level of non performing loans, (b) the high
interest rates caused a mismatch on asset and liability yields on CAVs' balance sheets, (c) the
recession also depressed real estate prices which had been used as collateral/guarantees to back
home loans - with lower real estate values, collateral guarantees were eroded and thus the CAVs
had to forcibly provision more income against losses while at the same time those borrowers were
denied further access to credit or refinancing, and (d) during the same period, the Constitutional
Court ruled that the variable mortgage rate index used by the CAVs, based in part on average
interest rates levels, was invalid since an inflation based index should have been consistently used
over the years, and therefore this ruling required CAVs and other banks to refund on an ex post
basis many of de facto capitalized interest charges to borrowers so as to reduce accumulated
levels of higher real loan balances. In response to these challenges, the Government embarked on
a series of specific measures to address the immediate problems in the financial sector, as well as
the structural reforms needed to enhance the efficiency, competitiveness and risk profile of the
banking sector. The Pastrana administration took office in August 1998 with a good diagnostic of
the financial sector problems.
Recognizing the seriousness of the issues facing some parts of the financial sector, the
Government introduced in November 1998, through an Emergency Executive Decree (referred to
as the Emergency Economic Measures), a series of relief measures designed to help the most
vulnerable groups affected by the crisis - mainly low income mortgage borrowers and depositors
in the cooperatives system (Emergency Decrees Nos. 1998, 2330, and 2331). In May 1999,
taking into account the increasingly acute portfolio problems of financial intermediaries, the
Government announced a special recapitalization program to be administered by the deposit
insurance agency (FOGAFIN). The support was in the form of medium-term loans to the banks'
shareholders to be used exclusively to recapitalize the banks. These lines of credit were funded
with bonds issued by FOGAFIN which were then applied by the shareholders to the banks'
balance sheets as an investment asset along with the equivalent corresponding entry in the capital
account for paid-in-capital.
Following these events, the Bank initiated a Financial Sector Assessment Program
(FSAP), jointly with the IMF, during the second half of 1999 in order to diagnose financial system
vulnerabilities. This was the very first FSAP mission undertaken by both institutions. The FSAP
enriched the analysis of the sector, drawing on the Government's earlier diagnosis as well as an
in-depth evaluation of banking supervision dating back to 1997, by a Spanish consulting firm.
The new Govemnment sought Bank support for its comprehensive reform program through
the Loan. The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Corporacion Andina de Fomento
(CAF) provided complementary financing to support the financial sector reform program.
Although preparation of this loan started in advance of the joint Bank-IMF Financial Sector
Assessment (FSAP), the Bank was able to incorporate key findings from the FSAP missions and
an earlier T.A. Loan (Financial Markets Development Project) into the preparation of relevant
areas of the FSAL. Following the first tranche of the Loan, the Government requested the Bank in
-3 -



place of second tranche disbursements, a policy based guarantee for an equivalent amount. The
Government wanted to use the proposed guarantee transaction to support the issuance of
Colombian bonds in the international financial markets during the first half of 2001.
Project Objectives (Original)
The objectives of the program supported by the Loan were to avoid systemic risk in the
Colombian financial system, engender confidence in the sector, minimize fiscal costs, and promote
the longer-term capacity and efficiency of the system in supporting sustainable economic growth.
The objectives addressed both the immediate risks associated with financial system stress as well
as the challenges faced by the system in the medium to long-term. The principal components
supported by the Loan were a macro-economic program that enabled the stabilization and
significant reductions in real interest rates and generation of liquidity, combined with
comprehensive financial sector reforms to ensure a timely and effective implementation of
prudential rules and supervision of financial institutions, including preventive measures, prompt
corrective actions, case-by-case resolution actions, measures to facilitate formation of
multi-service financial intermediation ("universal banks"), a comprehensive restructuring and/or
privatization of public banks, an overhaul of the cooperatives system to put them under sounder
guidelines and supervisory framework, and key changes in the housing finance system. Other
complementary measures included Law 550 on restructuring agreements for the corporate real
sector, strengthening of the deposit insurance system, and a systematic reduction of inflation. The
FSAL was viewed by the Government as an important complement to the Economic Emergency
Measures adopted in 1998.
The objectives of this project were reasonable and consistent with the Bank's country
strategy. The last full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia had been discussed by the
Board in November 1997. A progress report on the CAS was issued in October 1999 and
presented to the Board at the time of Loan approval on November 18, 1999. The progress report
reaffirmed the main objectives of poverty reduction and sustainable growth. The principal
elements of the CAS were: promoting peace; promoting rural development; developing human
capital; enhancing public sector efficiency; improving infrastructure services; and ensuring
sustainable development. The progress report acknowledged the challenges posed by unfavorable
intemational factors - lower commodity prices and volatile capital flows, and the deterioration of
the domestic financial sector.
As stated in the MOP, the Bank identified several risk factors that could deter the
achievement of the objectives. The first was the risk that the Government would not be able to
contain real interest rates in the economy at moderate levels, thus adding to strains on the
financial sector and the government's fiscal difficulties particularly in relation to debt servicing.
The second was the possibility of significant worsening of the external environment through
renewed turbulence in the international financial markets that could disrupt the implementation of
the macroeconomic program. A third factor was the likelihood that the Government would not be
able to effect the improvements in institutional capacity and resolution procedures, by banking
system regulators, in a timely manner.
3.2 Revised Objective:
-4 -



With the conversion of the Loan (FSAL) to a Policy Backed Guarantee (PBG), a
supplementary objective was implicitly (though not formally) added: to maintain Colombia's
access to the global financial markets on terms and conditions that would permit a sustainable
fiscal stance. In support of this objective, the 1999 CAS Progress Report had recognized that a
worsening of the economic situation could lead to financing gaps and temporary problems in
accessing external financial markets. However, at the time of Loan preparation, the PBG was not
considered because Colombia was not facing constraints in the global capital markets. Even
though it had lost its investment grade rating in April 1999, the Government felt that its excellent
track record in managing its external debt would have facilitated its access to the global markets.
Nevertheless, investor perceptions about overall emerging market risks conspired against the
Government's attempts to tap the markets. The PBG was thus designed to support the country's
ability to meet its external financing needs.
3.3 Or iginal Components:
In order to achieve its objectives, the program was supported by reforms in the following
five areas:
I.    Ensuring a satisfactory Macro-Economic Framework
Maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as established by the
Government in its development program with the goals of achieving stabilization, substantial
reduction in the fiscal deficit, and significant reductions in inflation and real interest rates.
In December 1999, the IMF Board approved a $2.7 billion Extended Fund Facility for a
three year period. An IDB Fiscal Adjustment Loan was also approved to support the
implementation of parts of the macroeconomic program.
II.   Strengthening the Legal, Regulatory, and Institutional Framework of the Financial
System
In order to avoid a repetition of the problems witnessed in the financial sector, and to set
the basis for a healthy development of the Colombian banking system in the future, the
Government assured passage of the Framework Law of the Financial System under Law 510 of
1999. The Government also agreed with the Bank to work on a detailed implementation of this
law. The principal commitments under this component were:
i. Support required changes in financial sector legislation and regulations to facilitate
strengthening of capital adequacy and prudential rules, bank supervision and enforcement
(e.g.: via requiring prompt corrective actions and progressively strict enforcement action),
reforms to the deposit insurance system, and measures to promote timely, fair and efficient
resolution of banks facing financial solvency problems.
ii. Comprehensive institutional strengthening of both the Banking Superintendency and
FOGAFIN, the entity responsible for deposit insurance and problem bank resolution.
The existing legal and regulatory framework had served reasonably well in the past, but
- 5-



needed to be reformed and strengthened to take account of potential problems. The new
legislative framework put in place in 1999 was to buttress the faculties of the supervisory agencies
to implement strong prudential, capital adequacy and risk management rules, and to take strong
preventive measures to anticipate and avoid banking problems. The institutional strengthening
program for the Banking Superintendency aimed at improving on-site supervision and off-site
analysis capabilities. With respect to FOGAFIN, this component sought to support the
implementation of modern methods of bank failure resolution when solvency problems were to
arise.
Desian of the component to strengthen the Financial System Framework:
The design of this component benefited from diagnostic work from several independent
initiatives. The Government's financial sector platform announced soon after taking office had
pointed to several areas of concern in terms of the cooperatives and the CAVs. An earlier Bank
Technical Assistance Loan which had focused on the problems of bank resolution as well as the
difficulties of the CAVs provided good grounding for subsequent analysis. The Joint Bank - IMF
missions in 1999 associated with the Financial Sector Adjustment Program (FSAP) also added
value to the Government's earlier diagnosis of the sector problems. Finally, an in-depth study by a
consulting firm from Spain in 1997, which had been commissioned by the Government, focused
on the need to strengthen on-site supervision as well as the off-site analysis of financial strength
and performance indicators.
The Government's Emergency Economic Measures of November 1998 had already
identified casualties in the financial sector, principally the CAVs and the Cooperatives. The CAVs
were particularly hit hard due to a combination of defaulting borrowers, high mismatched interest
rates, depreciating values of loan collateral which demanded increased recognition of losses, and
the past paid interest rate refunds required by the Constitutional Court's ruling with respect to the
indexation mechanism which had been used. The recession in 1999 also took a heavy toll on the
other financial intermediaries as a result of increased delinquencies of consumer loans as well as
further deterioration in the commercial loans portfolio. These problems underscored the need to
fortify the institutional framework of the regulatory agencies, the Banking Superintendency (SBC)
and FOGAFIN. Both SBC and FOGAFIN were heavily involved in the workout of troubled
financial intermediaries: the former through intervention of failed institutions, and the latter
through capitalization of weak banks, liquidation of intervened institutions as well as resolution of
the government-owned banks. The timing of this Loan was critical in terms of enhancing the
capacity of the regulatory agencies to prevent systemic risk. The Bank's involvement in this
component was very helpful since at that time the regulatory agencies were preoccupied with a
near crisis at hand.
III.  Restructuring and Resolution of Government Banks
The Government had put into effect an action plan to achieve resolution and privatization
of the main state-owned and "officialized" banks. A considerable amount of groundwork had been
developed under this component to support the following Government actions in this area:
- 6-



i. Formal action to dissolve the Caja Agraria and establish a new institution, Banco
Agrario de Colombia, to be operated on sound commercial banking principles.
ii. Restructuring, recapitalization, privatization and, if necessary, liquidation of state
owned and "officialized" banks that were under public sector management.
iii. Formal action to bring to the point or sale or initiate liquidation of each of the major
state-owned or officialized banks: BCH, FES, BanEstadolBanco Uconal, Granahorrar,
and Bancafe.
iv. Completion of a study to rationalize and increase the efficiency of state-owned second
tier financial institutions.
Design of the component to Restructure and Resolve the Government Banks:
This was perhaps the most challenging component of the program. The diversity of
institutions and the complexity of their problems combined with legal and political obstacles to
their closure conspired against the Government's goal of achieving a quick disengagement of the
public sector from financial intermediation. At the same time, there were market failures that
justified continued Government involvement in the financial sector but in a less intrusive fashion.
The distinction between state-owned and "officialized" was that in the case of the latter category
the ownership interest was held by FOGAFIN resulting from some form of intervention by the
regulators. On the other hand, there were only six banks which accounted for the bulk of the
Government's presence in the sector, plus the second-tier banks which from the start were
earmarked for restructuring and consolidation.
Early on during Loan design the Government closed down the Caja Agraria and
announced plans to establish a new institution, Banco Agrario de Colombia, which would
respond to needs of the largely underserved rural communities. While the Bank had initially
considered that the government would privatize two out of five state-owned and officialized
banks, prior to Loan negotiations, the Government made the commitment to bring all of them to
the point of sale. And if necessary, they would initiate their liquidation prior to the second tranche
release. In view of the severity of the Government-owned bank problems, the design of this
component was very relevant in terms of the objectives. At the same time, the Bank's involvement
in this area helped to intensify existing pressures for the government to disengage from first-tier
intermediation.
IV.   Reform of the Cooperatives system and the Housing Finance Sector
The Government program for cooperatives was aimed at rationalizing these institutions
into two categories: those that were to remain credit unions for members only (standard
cooperatives), and those that were to remain open to non-members offering a broader scope of
financial services on a larger scale (financial cooperatives). In view of the seriousness of the
housing finance crisis involving the CAVs, the Government was committed to a reform of this
sector. The following action steps were agreed on:
- 7-



i. Adoption by the Banking Superintendency of satisfactory principles, strategy and action
plan for licensing and supervision of cooperatives and its implementation through the
resolution of existing cooperatives within the new supervisory framework.
ii. Implement relief programs for housing mortgage debtors and ensuring that the full cost in
real terms of new housing loans is transparent and that indexing mechanisms for such loans
are designed to ensure sustainable payment capacity by borrowers. In support of this initiative
the Government would promote the development of securitization of mortgages as well as the
issuance of mortgage bonds to facilitate the management of assets and liabilities by housing
financing institutions. The latter was implemented via Law 546 of 1999 whereby the State via
FOGAFIN provided guarantees for mortgage securities and bonds.
Desien of the comDonent to reform the CooDeratives and the Housing Finance Systems:
The deterioration of the cooperatives in the period preceding the Loan had led to strong
protests by members who had lost their savings as a result of large losses incurred by the
cooperatives. With the Emergency Economic Measures in November 1998, it became apparent
that many of the cooperatives could not survive. The Government was also heedful of the need to
establish a resolution agency like FOGAFIN for the cooperatives. While the financial condition of
the cooperatives was weakening, there were no panic withdrawals by depositors. In many cases
the depositors were themselves borrowers from the cooperatives. The situation was not one of
urgency, but there was an immediate need to sift through the universe of cooperatives and to
focus on the larger multi-active entities in order to bring them on board to the standard financial
intermediation regime. The approach taken with respect to Megabanco in this sector was
instrumental. In this regard, the Loan appropriately targeted the establishment of satisfactory
principles of regulation with respect to the newly created category of financial cooperatives (to be
supervised by the SBC), and then to press for resolution of the cooperatives' status as either
financial or standard cooperatives, by second tranche. Those that qualified were given a limited
amount of time to complete the transition from a standard to a financial cooperative.
The housing sector situation was somewhat more complicated, but again not threatening
in terms of systemic risk, thanks in large part to earlier actions taken by the Government. There
were several taxing issues. First, the pricing of mortgage loans, which is based on an indexation
formula, had been modified on several occasions, which resulted in a gradual shift from an
inflation-based to an interest rate-based index. With the surge in real interest rates in 1998,
borrowers' payment capacity was thus severely strained. Second, the Constitutional Court ruled
in 1999 that the changes to the indexation formula had been invalid and ordered the CAVs to
retroactively adjust all balances of outstanding mortgages, with the consequent write-downs in the
value of the loan portfolios. And third, the recession triggered a new wave of loan delinquencies
thus undermining the financial viability of the CAVs. However, the effects of the recession were
not limited to the housing banks. In 1999, past-due loans of the banking system averaged 13.9
percent of total gross loans, or 82.0 percent of capital. With respect to systemic risk, the bigger
problem were commercial loans with a past-due ratio of 11.4 percent of total loans, and 36.3
percent of capital; the equivalent figures for mortgage loans were 15.0 percent and 26.8 percent
- 8 -



respectively; followed by consumer loans with 19.8 percent and 18.9 percent respectively. Even
though consumer loans were the worst performers, their size relative to the banks' capital was
much more limited.
The Bank's main concem was to ensure that in the future housing finance would become
more transparent and would avoid any automatic capitalization of interest beyond inflation. At the
same time, actions being taken to strengthen the financial system framework were already
addressing the structural deficiencies of the CAVs inherent in their limited scope, mainly capturing
short-term deposits to fund long-term housing loans. One area where the Bank was persistent in
its recommendations was the promotion of securitization of mortgage loans as an instrument for
managing interest and liquidity risk. This is an initiative where the Bank's participation was
instrumental in supporting the housing finance sector.
V.    Rationalization of FOGAFIN's Special Financial Sector programs with its primary
role in Deposit Insurance and Bank Resolution
In view of the important role played by FOGAFIN in the resolution of financial sector
problems, the Bank felt it was important to clearly delineate among the different types of activities
that FOGAFIN engaged in, with appropriate firewalls separating each area of operation. The
commitments in this component included the following:
i. FOGAFIN's management to ensure that the special programs did not jeopardize its
capacity to deliver its core functions.
ii. Clear separation of the funding for FOGAFIN's special programs from those for its
mainstream resolution and deposit insurance functions. In view of the drawdown of
FOGAGIN's financial resources associated with the resolution of problem institutions, the
Government was to make available the equivalent of US$ 200 million to that agency.
Design of the component to rationalize FOGAFIN's activities:
Early on in the process of Loan design the Bank questioned whether the responsibilities of
FOGAFIN were sufficiently well delineated. There was also some concern that the criteria and
procedures that FOGAFIN would use to recapitalize troubled banks needed to be specified more
clearly. The bank resolution operations during 1998 had also substantially drained the reserves of
the deposit insurance fund. In fact the agency had to resort to borrowing during that year in order
to maintain an adequate liquidity position. The issuance of the FOGAFIN bonds to fund the
recapitalization of the private banks had added to the debt service burden of the deposit insurance
agency since the bank shareholders had been granted a grace period with respect to the lines of
credit they had received for the recapitalization. The goal supported by this component was to
safeguard FOGAFIN's fiduciary responsibilities to protect the bank insurance fund from other
commitments such as the debtors' relief program or the capitalization and resolution of the public
banks. There was also some apprehension that FOGAFIN was being assigned roles that could
possibly be in conflict with its fundamental mission to safeguard depositors' funds while assuring
the swift resolution of problem banks. Under the program, SBC directives thus clearly identified
-9-



the different funds administered by FOGAFIN which were separate from the deposit insurance
fund.
3.4 Revised Components:
VI.   Development of an External Financing plan to Reduce the Fiscal Burden
Shortly before compliance with second tranche conditions was achieved before mid-2000,
the Government requested the Bank's authorization to consider instead, using the resources under
the FSAL's second tranche to back-stop a policy based guarantee to be provided by the Bank to
enhance and support a large issue of sovereign bonds in the international financial markets. Due to
unfavorable market conditions, particularly the contagion effects of financial crises faced in other
Latin American countries and other parts of the world, Colombia's access to international
financial markets was significantly disrupted and its international rating downgraded. This
severely diminished the Government's capacity to raise the requisite amounts of long term
international resources at a reasonable cost, to achieve the fiscal gap reduction and financial
program sustainability required under the IMF program. In response to the Government's request,
following a fill review of Colombia's proposed macro-economic and financial program as well as
the structural elements of the reforms supported under the FSAL, the Bank's Board approved a
Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) of up to Euro 238.74 million (the equivalent of the second tranche
disbursement for which Colombia gained eligibility) to back-stop US$ 1 billion worth of long term
amortizing notes with level payments, issued by the Government.
While all the conditions for second tranche release under the FSAL had been complied
with, the PBG added another component in terms of an in-depth analysis of the country's external
debt management and financing plan. This additional component was aimed at assuring that the
Government had considered all options in terms of the external borrowing program. One of the
critical elements in the design of the PBG was the financial structure of the proposed notes in
order to optimize the leverage from the Bank's resources, which had been limited to the amount
of the expected second tranche disbursement under the FSAL. The eventual successful issue of
international bonds totaling about US$ 1 billion provided the country long term external resources
from the market during a very difficult period. The prudent financial management approach
facilitated by the PBG proved eventually to be most advantageous given that access problems of
developing countries in international markets worsened as such market access became
increasingly challenging in subsequent years.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is judged to be Satisfactory. As explained in the previous section, the
design of the project objectives was highly relevant in terms of the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy. Preparation of the project was done efficiently by competent and well-experienced
teams at the Bank and in the Colombian Government.
The overall design of the Loan components was very relevant in terms of the challenges
facing the financial system. As stated in the Board meeting for Loan approval, the Loan was
found to be comprehensive, well crafted, and far-reaching. As explained above, the design was
supported by ample sector work by the Bank through the earlier Technical Assistance Loan as
well as the FSAP, and the Government's own extensive diagnosis of the problems. Monitoring
-10-



indicators for the program were practical, such as the implementation of new regulations,
restructuring and disposal of public banks, and reform of the cooperative sector.
Reviews by the Operations Committee advised that monitorable actions of the Loan
should be more clearly defined, in particular, the criteria and procedures that FOGAFIN would
follow in problem bank resolution and better indication of how the program would help reduce
high real interest rates. In its final form, the program did not specifically set targets for real
interest rates, which in view of the volatility of the currency market and the unpredictable nature
of external pressures on the financial markets, the Bank appropriately avoided committing the
Loan's outcome to a particular real rate of interest. Another issue raised at the Operations
Committee was the pace of reforms and whether the Government should pursue a more
aggressive timeline, especially with respect to the cooperatives and the public banks.
Unfortunately, at the time of Loan design the Government did not yet have sufficient information
to gauge the magnitude of the problem. Part of the reforms dealing with new financial sector
legislation and regulations were aimed at facilitating the bank resolution process, so that it would
not have been possible to call for swift resolution of problem banks since the legal framework that
would authorize such actions was not in place yet. On the other hand, pushing the process at a
faster pace did not necessarily translate into lower costs since this might have implied liquidating
assets of intervened banks at very depressed prices, with ensuing losses to the State.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome and achievement of development objectives of the FSAL is considered
highly satisfactory. This is attributed to the quality of design, strong commitment by the
Borrower, timely implementation of policies, and persistence of Bank supervision. The relevance
of the project's design and efficiency of its implementation contributed to its successful outcome.
The PBG component was instrumental in assisting Colombia return to the international financial
markets. This section discusses the outcome and achievement of objectives first, and then
concludes with an assessment of the implementation experience, and the project's output.
As a result of a modest economnic recovery and actions taken under this program,
conditions in the financial sector have improved noticeably. Indeed, given the combination of the
major financial sector problems during 1999-2001, Colombia faced significant risks of a systemic
crisis. In part helped by the preventive prudential mechanisms and forward looking measures
supported by the FSAL, the Government was able to avert a crippling crisis similar to the ones
that affected several other Latin American countries. Consolidation and resolution of financial
intermediaries that had experienced severe stress has resulted in an improvement in their
fundamentals. The closure and merger of institutions combined with the clean up of problem
assets by other financial intermediaries led to a significant shrinkage of the financial system in real
terms. Excluding the public sector banks, total assets of the banking system have fallen from
US$52 billion in 1998 to US$35.2 billion in 2001 although part of this change is due to
continuous exchange rate depreciations during the period. Profitability has finally returned after a
whopping cumulative loss of 88 percent of capital during 1998-2000, which was largely offset
through sizeable increases in bank capital helped by FOGAFIN's capitalization program. The
overall financial condition of FOGAFIN is now satisfactory, and the institution enjoys good
- 1 1 -



leadership with effective strategic thinking.
During January to June of 2002, the performance of the banking system has continued to
improve. Return on equity has averaged 6.5% up from a 1.1% average in 2001. The more
favorable outcome in terms of profitability can be attributed in part to increased efficiency defined
as the ratio of total operating expenses (net of depreciation) to net interest income plus non
interest income. The ratio has fallen from 80.5 in 1999 to 66.2 during the first half of 2002. The
combination of increased efficiency and better asset quality should thus lead to higher rates of
profitability. With firmer and more sophisticated tools at the disposal of banking regulators,
growth of the system should proceed on a more solid footing.
At the time of the design of the FSAL, it was always assumed that the operation needed to
be followed up with a second FSAL to address the remaining medium term agenda such as the
reform of the second tier banks, medium term measures to improve capital market and debt
securities operations, efficient disposal and sale of remaining non performing loan portfolios of
intervened banks, and judicial/commercial code improvements to facilitate faster foreclosure and
asset resolution processes. While systemic risk has been reduced as a result of the reforms
supported by the Loan, the financial system is still not back to full health. The weight of problem
loans is likely to continue to be a drag on future growth of the system. In 2001 past-due loans
represented 10.9 percent of total loans, down from 13.9 percent in 1999; however in relation to
capital, problem loans were an uncomfortably high 55.8 percent last year, although down from
82.0 percent in 1999, explained to a considerable extent by the less than expected growth
performance in the last two years and continued security problems in the country. This trend has
continued into the first half of 2002. Past due loans averaged 52 percent of capital.
The improvement in problem loans has been concentrated in the commercial and consumer
categories, while mortgage loan show little improvement. However, loans classified as C, D, and
E, under the new system instituted in 1999, still represent a high percentage of capital, which at
mid 2002 had not changed since 2000. The high level of problem or potential problem loans
heightens the vulnerability of the system to future economic weakness as well as to significant
increases in real interest rates. These trends point to the need to maintain focus on the second
round of reforms which were contemplated from the outset and could be supported via a second
FSAL operation The achievements under the first FSAL provide an excellent platform on which
to base this second round of reforms.
The contributions from the individual Loan components towards the achievement of the
overall objectives are summarized below:
Impact of Macroeconomic component on Program Outcome
The successful implementation of the macroeconomic program has contributed to
significantly lower inflation, 8.7 percent in 2001, down from 16.7 percent in 1998, and to
significantly lower interest rates as represented by a DTF rate of 12.44 percent in 2001, down
from 32.58 percent in 1998. In fact, these are the lowest DTF rates in the system since these
statistics were first published in the 1980s. The real interest rate implicit in these figures has thus
- 12 -



fallen from a high of about 25.0 percent at the end of 1998, to about 2.0 percent in June of 2002.
At the same time, the non-financial public sector deficit was lowered to 3.8 percent of GDP in
2001, down from 6.0 percent in 1999.
Selected Indicators  1997     1998     1999      2000     2001      2002
_ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ E st.
GDP (% growth)       3.4      0.6      -4.2      2.7       1.4       1.6
Inflation (%)       17.7      16.7      9.2       8.7      7.6       6.0
NFPS (% of GDP)     -2.7      -3.6      -6.0     -3.8      -3.8     -4.4
DTF Rate (%)        24.09    32.55     21.60     12.14    12.47     9.05
Impact of Financial System Strengthening component on Program Outcome
Building on earlier reforms and institutional strengthening of the regulatory agencies, the
successful outcome of this component has resulted in lower systemic risk in the financial system.
Key contributions of this component to program outcome include:
a. The implementation of new prudential norms has noticeably reduced systemic risk.
The reform of the financial institutions law allowed the SBC to adopt more effective
regulations particularly in the areas of asset quality and capital. Industry consolidation and exit
of non-viable institutions has improved the health of the system. At the same time, the
introduction of new regulations dealing with asset quality and interest rate risk is only a first
step toward achievement of the objective. Supervisors are continuously ensuring that financial
intermediares are effectively assimilating and applying the new rules which may involves an
ongoing learning process for both the bankers and regulators.
b. New standards for swift bank failure resolution have enhanced FOGAFIN's abilitv to act
quickly to stem the spillover effects from bank failures on the rest of the system
Measures to enhance bank failure resolution have been important in terms of reducing the
contagion effect on the rest of the system. The absence of any serious deposit runs during the
difficult years 1998-1999 is an indication of the effectiveness of FOGAFIN actions. At the
same time, the development of the bank capitalization scheme has allowed FOGAFIN to
provide a solution to a bank's problems when the fundamentals remained viable. On the other
hand, legal impediments still pose a challenge to FOGAFIN's ability to reach closure with
respect to intervened institutions. As of December 2001, FOGAFIN was in possession of 38
financial institutions, banks, finance companies, leasing companies, and financial cooperatives.
Of these, five were intervened prior to 1995, fourteen during 1996-98, thirteen during 1999,
five in 2000, and one in 2001. These figures also reveal sharp reduction in the number of
interventions during the past two years.
c. Creation of a "universal" bank framework whereby all intermediares - commercial banks.
- 13-



finance companies. housing finance banks, and financial cooperatives, operate under a single
set of rules to be supervised by a single regulator. the SBC, which bodes well for the
sustainable development of the financial system.
All financial intermediaries will now be subject to the same standards of safety and
soundness. Nevertheless, the SBC needs to closely monitor the activities of financial
intermediaries as they seek to diversify their base of operations. For example, housing finance
banks will now expand into consumer lending and corporate finance, which are attractive
areas to diversify their operational risks; however, venturing into new markets could pose
higher than normal risks. The SBC's internal norms on supervision of consolidated entities
and cross business activities address these new developments within the structure of the
Colombian financial industry.
Impact of Government Owned Banks component on Program Outcome
By noticeably reducing the involvement of the Government in the financial sector, this
component of the program is expected to promote the longer-term capacity and efficiency of the
system to support sustainable economic growth led by private sector investment. The effects of
Government actions to reduce first- and second-tier financial intermediation are as follows:
a. The closure and privatization of government-owned banks has significantly reduced the
presence of the Government in the financial system and consequently reduced systemic risk
arising from the unsatisfactory performance of public banks. The liquidation of Caia Agraria
helped resolve one of the most longstanding sources of financial and economic inefficiency
and fiscal drain, and provided a basis for building a more sustainable platform for designing
financial services to the agriculture sector.
b. The focus of government lending on second-tier intermediation will contribute to a better
risk environment by passing on the risk of the ultimate borrowers to the private sector
financial intermediaries.
As explained in the section on implementation, some institutions are still in the process of
being sold or liquidated. However, the delay in their implementation has been largely out of
the control of the Government, which is still fully committed to their final resolution.
Impact of Financial Cooperatives and Housing Finance component on Program Outcome
As a result of Government actions in this area, a financial crisis was averted. The
Government's successful management of these problem institutions has enhanced its credibility as
an effective regulator of the market. The principal contributions to program outcome under this
component are as follows:
a. The restructuring of the cooperatives sector and transferring of financial cooperatives to
the supervision of SBC will subject this segment to the same rigorous standards of supervision
- 14 -



as other financial intermediaries.
b. Conditionalities under the loan anticipated the problems in the housing system related to
the questionable application of the indexing systems, and the attendant risks of the associated
excessive capitalization of interest. The changes introduced to correct the indexing problems
and the introduction of the securitized mortgage instruments which was indirectly supported
by the loan conditions and related technical assistance, also reflect positive contributions.
They will enhance the ability of financial intermediaries to spread the risk of their loans to a
wide spectrum of long-term investors, and help reduce systemic risk from the interest rate gap
between assets and liabilities.
Impact of the component to Rationalize FOGAGIN, on Program Outcome
Following an organizational restructuring and formal separation of its deposit insurance
role from the other financial relief programs administered by FOGAFIN on behalf of the
Government, the bank resolution agency should become more effective in dealing with potential
systemic problems.
The separation of FOGAFIN's activities will help to keep the institution more focused on the
individual areas of risk, especially the resolution of problem banks, while maintaining separate
procedures to handle its standard deposit insurance functions.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The overall implementation rating is considered Satisfactory as elaborated below by
objectives and program components.
Implementation / Output of the Macroeconomic component
The Colombian Government has maintained its commitrnent to fiscal adjustment and
structural reforms, despite difficult economic, political and security conditions. Compliance with
the IMF Extended Fund Facility has been satisfactory. The non-financial public sector deficit was
lowered to 3.8% of GDP in 2001, down from 6.0 percent in 1999. Since the Central Bank's
decision in September 1999 to abandon the currency trading bank in favor of a free float of the
peso, trading in the market has remained orderly; although the peso has depreciated in real terms
during this period. The new Government of President Uribe which took office in 2002 has
continued to support the same macroeconomic policy framework.
Implementation / Output of the Financial System Framework component
The implementing regulations, policies and procedures put into effect by the Government
and its responsible agencies were fully consistent with Loan conditionality. A key Board
presentation condition assured early passage of a comprehensive financial sector reform
legislation, which in hindsight proved very timely. The Government issued on December 29, 2000
a formal decree (Decreto 2817) putting into immediate effect a system of explicit performance
indicators of financial intermediaries which are to be used by SBC to monitor solvency, financial
performance or other problems faced by financial institutions. These indicators will form the basis
- 15 -



for the CAMEL-type ratings to be applied by SBC in its supervisory activities. The decree
specifically provides for prompt corrective actions which will be enforced by the Superintendency
of Banks very much in line with the recommendations of the Bank and the IMF. It requires
financial institutions, where necessary, to prepare and abide by specific recovery plans approved
by the Superintendency to regain financial solvency (Programa de Recuperacion, or Recovery
Program).
The SBC has begun implementation of new regulations that should help to guard against
systemic risk. With respect to asset quality, a new system will be in place by mid 2003 which will
place greater emphasis on expected losses based on a borrower's earning capacity. While more
sophisticated, the methodology calls for more analysis by banks of a borrower's debt servicing
capacity. The SBC is also implementing monitoring measures which take into account deficient
management and risk taking practices as part of criteria to assess the condition and sustainability
of banks. Implementation of these new methodologies by financial intermediaries will need to be
monitored closely by the SBC. With respect to interest rate risk, banks with a heavy reliance on
mortgage lending need to be examined closely. It is important to separate interest rate from
liquidity risk, and in the case of the former, stress analyses should be based on fluctuations
comparable to that that were experienced in the mid 1990s.
The Superintendency of Banks has fully implemented the institutional strengthening
program described in Attachment 5 of the Policy Letter. It has provided the Bank periodic
reports of the progress of the program. Accomplishments include strengthening of information
and diagnostic systems, putting in place a system of early warning indicators and prompt
correction measures, integration of findings from off-site and on-site bank examination results,
strengthening of loan classification system and provisioning rules, and training programs to
enhance the technical capacity of its staff. The Superintendency has also put into effect a major
reconfiguration of its organizational structure to facilitate examination and supervision of all
constituents of financial groups on a consolidated basis. This step has helped to minimize
regulatory leakage via transactions among financial entities belonging to the same economic
group. The very positive impact on the quality and effectiveness of supervision is already in
evidence.
FOGAFIN has fully respected the principles of problem bank resolution as specified in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy contained in the MOP. These include the principles
governing distribution of losses, fair burden-sharing among shareholders, creditors and depositors,
and using the provisions of its deposit insurance in an integral manner in coming up with the most
efficient bank resolution options. FOGAFIN also implemented a very successful private bank
recapitalization program to facilitate recapitalization of medium size private banks, fully
respecting the principles of burden-sharing and ensuring that existing shareholders assume most of
the related financial responsibility. Since the financial sector crisis began in 1998, FOGAFIN has
liquidated or is in the process of liquidating a number of institutions, it has entered into a
capitalization program with weak banks, and has been charged with the resolution of the public
sector banks. The total cost of FOGAFIN's support program during 1998 - 2002 was estimated
by Bank staff to be approximately 8,703,733 million pesos, or about US$3.6 billion.
- 16-



FOGAFIN's role in providing capital support to weak intermediaries is an effective tool in
managing systemic risk. Nevertheless, its role in resolution of financial intermediaries which are
still going concerns has to be closely coordinated with SBC as the principal regulator of these
institutions. Under current practices, FOGAFIN's actions to support any intermediary are decided
upon only after extensive informal consultations with SBC. While this collaboration between the
two agencies has been a productive one, it might be helpful if in the future FOGAFIN's plans for
strengthening a particular intermediary were to be formally approved by the Superintendent or by
the Board of SBC.
FOGAFIN also took steps to further enhance its institutional capacity through a
consultancy provided by McKinsey and Company. Based on the consultant's recommendations, a
new organizational structure created a specialized sub-directorate for asset recoveries, thus
resulting in a total of three deputy directorates, focusing respectively on undertaking and
overseeing specific problem bank resolution transactions, technical and financial analysis, and
management and disposition of bad loans or corresponding assets acquired by FOGAFIN and its
affiliates as a result of bank clean-up operations. As a further step related to the latter area,
FOGAFIN has recently consolidated under an autonomous affiliate (CISA) the overall
responsibility for the non-performing asset management and disposition for the public sector
banks.
Implementation / Output of the Government-owned Banks component
The Government has taken a series of bold and forceful actions in following up on the
actions referred to in Attachment 2 of the Policy Letter. The Government actions were oriented
towards achieving defmitive resolution of all the major state-owned and "officialized" banks,
including housing finance institutions (CAVs) and cooperatives facing solvency problems. In
deciding on the specific mode of resolution, the Government gave first priority to privatizing the
institutions wherever feasible, i.e., where the institutions were deemed to be able to achieve
solvency and operate as viable institutions in the medium term, and to attract new capital and
private investor interest following resolution. Where the judgment of the authorities was in the
contrary, actions were taken, within the framework of the banking law, to close and liquidate
them or sell their component parts.
Of the six state-owned and officialized banks whose resolution, including privatization
(where feasible) and initiation of liquidation, if necessary, was conditioned under the Loan, Caja
Agraria was formally closed and its entire staff relieved of their duties prior to the release of the
first tranche.
Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH) as well as the consolidated package of Banco del
Estado (BanEstado) with Banco Uconal ceased all their deposit and lending operations under the
Superintendency's orders. The financial resolution of these banks was accomplished by the
transfer and/or merger of their good assets and commensurate liabilities with other financial
institutions, transfer of BCH's bad loan portfolio to an asset resolution company (CISA) for
collection and/or final disposition of repossessed assets, and pursuance of legal steps to formally
- 17 -



close the remaining "shell" bank.
BCH was founded in the 1930s as a housing finance institution which focused on the
low-medium to medium income market. Inefficient management combined with a significant non
performing portfolio forced regulators to close the bank. Good quality assets were transferred to
Granahorrar. The formal liquidation of BCH has been announced through a special decree (No.
20 of January 2001). The bank's remaining assets will be sold following the settlement of its
pension liabilities.
BanEstado became a state-owned bank during the banking problems in the 1980s. Banco
Uconal, a cooperative bank that had been intervened in 1998 was subsequently merged with
BanEstado. The combined bank ceased all deposit and lending operations following the transfer
of its good assets to other banks. Due to legal problems arising from a large suit against
BanEstado, privatization of the combined institution was not feasible. Another complication arose
from the fact that some of the Uconal creditors held convertible bonds, which further limited the
ability of FOGAFIN to liquidate the institution. In fact, the latter issue prevented FOGAFIN from
transferring the non-productive assets of the bank to CISA for eventual sale or collection.
Currently, the Govemnment is sorting out the legal complexities of this bank in order to resolve its
final status. Another institution, FES was intervened in 1999. This was a special purpose fund
which had been founded as a non-profit entity to engage in consumer financing. Because of its
legal status, FES was handled as a special case by FOGAFIN. It was first converted to a
corporation and subsequently liquidated.
Also slated for privatization or winding up, Granahorrar, is a savings and loan (S&L)
association that has faced progressively increasing difficulties as a result of the deep economic
recession and slump in housing prices and sharp deterioration of the situation of the Colombian
housing finance sector as a whole. Its planned privatization progressed more slowly than
expected due to the lack of buyer interest in the domestic and foreign markets, reflecting the
fragile situation of the housing finance institutions. FOGAFIN's Board, consistent with Bank
advice, has formally approved an innovative resolution plan. The plan calls for an orderly
dismantling of the bank and gradual disposition through the creation of a special fiduciary trust
into which Granahorrar assets and liabilities will be transferred. The fiduciary will then transfer
the management of the assets and liabilities to private banks (initially as an intermediate step if
necessary), followed by definitive sale of assets and transfer of commensurate liabilities via a
purchase and assumption (P & A) procedure following a market-based competitive process.
Non-performing loans from the portfolio were transferred to CISA, the assets management and
disposition agency used by FOGAFIN to achieve final disposition of non-performing loans and
related assets. Implementation of this plan, which amounts to an orderly dismantling of the
institution, has already been initiated, though it will be subject to review based on the interim
results of the strategy.
In the case of Banco Cafetero, (BANCAFE) its Shareholder Assembly as well as
FOGAFIN's Board formally endorsed a proposed privatization plan, and an investment bank was
hired to implement the plan and manage the privatization process via open competitive bidding
following an initial offer of shares to the solidarity sector (employees) as required by Colombian
- 18-



law. However, towards the end of the process, the investment bank's valuation of BANCAFE,
which continued to be affected by major security problems still affecting the country, was
considered very low when it was presented to the Council of Ministers at the end of 2001. Due to
the unfavorable market conditions, the sale of the bank was postponed. Nevertheless, the Minister
of Finance provided the Bank a letter reiterating that if the Government fails to secure a final sale
of BANCAFE, the Government would initiate an orderly dismantling process for that bank along
the lines already pursued in other cases. Drawing in good part from the previous investment
banking work, the new Government which assumed power in August 2002, is now actively
renewing a concerted effort to privatize this bank and is currently seeking a strategic investor by
2003, who would purchase 51 percent of the bank after the bank's pension liabilities are
transferred to a consolidated public pension liability fund (FOPEP). As the economy begins to
strengthen, prospects for the sale of the shares according to this new strategy appear good, and all
parts of the Government including the Ministry of Finance, FOGAFIN, and BANCAFE's
Management, appear strongly committed to see this through.
Although not a stated objective of the FSAL, as a complementary activity to set the stage
for a second round of medium term reforms under FSAL related work, the Government also
contracted a consultant to review the status of government-owned second-tier financial
institutions. Based on the recommendations of the study, the Government issued a decree calling
for consolidation and restructuring of some of the second-tier financial institutions. However, this
decree was nullified by the Constitutional Court of Colombia on certain technical grounds which
will need to be rectified before moving forward with a new proposal for consolidation and
'rationalization of the second-tier institutions. The Government intends to formulate a new
proposal embodied in Law that is responsive to the Court's decision and the latest developments
in the financial sector while enabling the desired rationalization. It is likely that the Government
will seek Bank support to complete the rationalization of the second-tier financial institutions via
technical assistance or a future lending operation.
Implementation / Output of the Financial Cooperatives component
The supervisory authorities have acted with resolve to ensure that the capital adequacy
and solvency rules and prudential regulations applicable to financial cooperatives are clearly
defined and fully observed. As part of this process, the Superintendency of Banks undertook
case-by-case screening of the financial situation and compliance with the rules of all 54 institutions
which were candidates for formal status as financial cooperatives at the time of Loan approval. A
number of entities, in the face of the new requirements, either voluntarily withdrew their
applications for classification as financial cooperatives or merged with other institutions. The
authorities ordered liquidation of the remaining entities that were not able to meet the capital
adequacy and other criteria and that were also not able to formulate or comply with a satisfactory
recovery plan for transformation into a standard cooperative.
The implementation of the new rules and regulations has noticeably reduced the number of
financial cooperatives under the supervision of the banking regulators. Of the original 54
candidates, 23 were transformed into standard cooperatives under the supervision of the special
agency for cooperatives, Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria, 11, were intervened and
-19-



liquidated; 5 were converted to social cooperatives under a special agency (DANSOCIAL); 3 are
still in the process of being transformed into standard cooperatives; 2 were merged with
commercial banks; 1 was merged with another cooperative; and 7 remain under the supervision of
the Banking Superintendency.
Cooperatives not falling under the supervision of the Banking Superintendency (the
standard cooperatives), continue to be governed by Law 454 of 1998 and the subsequent relevant
decrees and are supervised by specialized institutions created for their oversight, as envisaged
under the Program.
In part as a result of the Constitutional Court ruling, the authorities have changed the
indexation system for housing finance loans, putting into effect a new system under which housing
loans are tied to a reliable inflation index officially certified by the central bank (the UVR index
which replaces the old hybrid UPAC index). The new system ensures that the full cost in real
terms of housing loans is fully transparent to all parties concerned. The switch to the new
indexing systems was also accompanied by the banning of any capitalization of interest payments
on housing loans beyond what is implicit in inflation indexing. In other words, an automatic
protection against capitalization of interest beyond that attributable to the inflation is embedded in
the system. This effectively meets the Loan condition that excessive capitalization of interest is
avoided and housing loan contracts are consistent with sustainable payment capacity of
borrowers. An additional benefit of the new system has been that a much greater homogeneity in
terms of interest rate adjustment methods and amortization options has been achieved in bank
mortgage loan portfolios, making them much more amenable to securitization and promotion of
medium term mortgage finance instruments.
The Bank and IFC have been working closely with the Government in promoting the
framework, regulations and infrastructure for fostering securitization in the Colombian housing
finance market and the development of the new medium term instruments, through advisory
services, financing of technical assistance and IFC participation in the creation of a securitization
company. So far the securitization agency has been able to place about 1.0 billion pesos in
securitized mortgage obligations.
In order to assist housing finance banks to deal with interest rate risk, the Bank worked
with the Borrower's Central Bank to devise a swap mechanism between inflation-based and
interest rate DTF-based indexed instruments. This is really a hybrid swap whereby the participant
is compensated only if interest rates go above a certain range and up to a maximum amount. At
the same time, the Bank has been looking into the feasibility of a Back-stop facility for issuers of
mortgage bonds. With respect to the swap facility, due to the relative stability of interest rates in
recent months, there has been no demand for this instrument. On the other hand, the complexity
and limited coverage of this instrument, in the face of the relatively high price, may be
discouraging banks from participating.
Implementation / Output of component to Rationalize FOGAFIN's Activities
Through an executive decree, the Government formally required FOGAFIN to separate
-20 -



the accounts of each of FOGAFIN's core functions -- problem bank resolution, deposit and other
insurance activities-- from emergency relief activities it undertakes on behalf of the Government.
Moreover, the Government has strictly abided by the principle that the full costs of resolution,
closing or other disposition of state-owned banks (e.g., Caja Agraria, BCH, Banco del Estado)
will be fully met directly by the Government via budget allocations or other funding arrangements.
In this context, FOGAFIN's financing for banking sector support was also achieved through the
issuance of bonds in the amount of 4.95 trillion pesos, and whose debt service is payable via
future budget commitments. The Government also provided evidence to the Bank that they made
funds available to FOGAFIN for its regular bank resolution activities. In 1999, 182 billion pesos
were transferred to FOGAFIN, 215 billion in 2000, and another 184 billion in 2001, which
represented approximately US$ 300 million.
Implementation / Output of Policy Guarantee Component
In May 2001, the Government completed the issuance of US$ 1.0 billion in Notes backed
by US$ 158.8 million Policy Based Guarantee from the Bank. With the Bank guarantee the
Government was able to place the Notes in the US capital market. The Notes were structured on
a level payment amortizing basis for a final maturity of 10 years with the first two payments
guaranteed by the Bank on a rolling reinstatable basis.
Thanks to the Bank guarantee the Notes achieved investment grade rating, and 80 percent
of the bonds were placed with investment grade investors. The interest rates on the Notes were
substantially lower than its previous US$ and Euro-dollar issues, allowing the Government to
realize savings of 128 basis points per annum versus its secondary market curve. It the
Government had drawn the second tranche under the FSAL and theoretically mobilized the
remaining US$ 841.2 million from the capital markets, the cost would have been about 29 basis
points over the cost of the guaranteed transaction.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return.
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return.
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional developnment impact:
The FSAL's institutional development impact is deemed high based on the project
objectives of minimizing systemic risk through a strengthening of the financial sector
regulatory system and a reduction in the presence of the Government in the financial
sector. As discussed in the previous section, the successful outcome in terms of strengthening
financial regulations and supervision and the institutional development program of both agencies,
SBC and FOGAFIN, not only averted a full blown financial crisis, but supported the long term
institutional development of the financial sector. The program supported by this loan has
contributed to more effective market mechanisms for financial intermediation. The successful
development of the securitization business was an important market innovation spurred on by this
loan.
- 21 -



The Loan was instrumental in raising the level of efficiency in three areas: the regulatory
environment; the role of state-owned banks; and the resolution of the financial cooperatives and
housing finance problems. Within the regulatory sphere the reform program introduced new
standards that ensure a higher quality of assets and lower risk of operations as well as a system to
measure individual performance by financial intermediaries. The strengthening of the regulatory
agencies has made them more proactive in their supervisory functions as seen by the introduction
of new norms that have gone beyond the scope of the original program. The reduction in the
number of state-owned banks has removed an important source of market inefficiencies. At the
same time, the remaining state-owned banks, Caja Agraria and the second-tier banks, are
expected to operate under much more intensive accountability standards. Finally, the resolution of
the major problems facing the housing finance banks and the financial cooperatives has eased the
burden from systemic risk.
Two key reasons why the operation was able to achieve substantial institutional
development impact were: (i) the high degree of ownership and commitment the operation was
able to generate upfront from the Government and concerned entities governing the operation of
financial system; and (ii) the considerable amount of formal and informal technical assistance the
Bank was able to arrange during the period of implementation of the loan through financing of
complementary activities under an ongoing Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance
loan and several non-lending TA activities to provide diagnostic services and advice in a number
of related areas such as the design options for low income housing subsidy and guarantee systems,
problem bank resolution, possible options for hedging term transformation and index mismatch
risks and improved problem bank resolution systems.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
One of the main factors outside the control of the Government was the unfavorable
external environment. Low commodity prices and the contagion effect from the Asian and
Brazilian financial crises as well as the subsequent debacle in Argentina have reduced investment
flows into Colombia. Difficulties in neighboring countries (Ecuador and Venezuela) have made
the situation worse. These trends have raised the hurdle in overcoming systemic risks arising from
liquidity strains on the financial system. On the other hand, reduced investment inflows have
conspired against government efforts to privatize some of the public sector banks. In addition, in
terms of the bank privatization efforts, there was little demand for bank portfolios, assets, or real
estate collateral underlying such bank loans, factors which militated against the quick and
expeditious disposal of such portfolios.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One of the salient characteristics of the successful outcome has been the excellent
performance of the Government's macroeconomic policies in reducing inflation to single digits
and domestic interest rates to levels not seen in decades. In view of the importance of
macroeconomic stability to the sustainability of financial sector reforms, the success of this factor
has been instrumental in the overall favorable outcome of the program.
At the same time, the strong "ownership" and commitment to the agreed reform program
- 22 -



by the Government, facilitated via thorough discussion upfront on the need and the options for
reform, was decisive in its positive outcome. When the Pastrana Administration took office it was
already hard at work to define the critical challenges facing the financial sector and to mount a
credible policy reform program. During loan implementation, the financial sector authorities
diligently executed the prescribed mechanisms for intervention, closure and smooth exit of banks
from the financial system, as well as enforcement of capitalization actions.
5.3 Factors generally subject to inmplementing agency control:
Both SBC and FOGAFIN were strongly committed to the program. Since the passage of
the financial sector law, SBC has been pushing to go beyond the initial measures agreed to in the
program, such as the recent development of new loan classification standards based on expected
cash flow analysis of borrowers, and development of ratings based on bank management
performance and internal risk management systems. During the program, the SBC designed and
implemented a regime of prompt corrective actions and penalties for non compliance to mitigate a
downward spiral in the condition of financial institutions. FOGAFIN has also been persistent m
pursuing alternative approaches to the resolution of problem banks and the closure or sale of
public sector banks such as the use of securitized instruments to transfer loan portfolios. The use
of innovative financial engineering approaches for transferring closed bank balances to acquiring
banks (along with burden sharing agreements among all parties), was a key part of the
government's strategy as implemented within the new regulatory framework. The high quality of
the staff in both institutions can also explain the better than expected implementation experience.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The FSAL's support along with funds provided by the IDB and the CAF, were
instrumental in providing a sufficient level of resources to create temporary financial support
mechanisms and support FOGAFIN's operations in order to stabilize the financial system.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainabihty rating:
The sustainability of the Loan is judged to be likely. The strong commitment by the
Government to economic reforms is an important ingredient for continued success of the program
in the financial sector. A good track record on macroeconomic policies assures a favorable
environment for the sustainability of the Loan objectives. The new Government of President
Uribe, which took office in August 2002, has continued to support the same reforms in the
financial sector. The regulatory environment continues to improve. SBC is now in the process of
implementing new loan classification standards that emphasize the evaluation of future cash flows
of borrowers. Improvements in off-site supervision will enhance the capacity to prevent future
problems in the sector. The closure and final resolution of public-owned banks is expected to
minimize future direct involvement by the Government in the financial sector.
While the financial system has experienced a fundamental improvement in its risk profile,
the system is still saddled with problem assets. At the same time, housing finance banks are
exposed to the risk of volatile interest rates. In this regard, sustainability of the Loan objectives is
somewhat tempered by the risk of future economic problems such as recession, which could lead
to a deterioration of the banking system's loan portfolio, or the consequent increased volatility of
interest rates could lead to significant losses by banks that are still not adequately hedged.
- 23 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not Applicable.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
In the identification of the project the Bank showed very good judgment in selecting the
development objectives. The Bank was proactive in mounting a series of financial sector
strengthening measures to address the problems of the banks' loan portfolios. While the project
was complex, the design was compatible with the borrower's capacity.
7 2 Supervision
Bank supervision was highly satisfactory as evidenced by the frequency of monitoring and
the attention paid to the compliance with the achievement of the objectives. Bank staff provided
good advice to their counterparts in Colombia. As part of project supervision, the Bank also
facilitated the provision of considerable complementary technical assistance via a parallel TA loan
as well as informal non-lending support to help define implementation strategies and options (e.g.
in the development of new housing finance and securitization instruments, options for low income
housing guarantee mechanisms, alternative ways of meeting the new mandate from the
Constitutional Court, and ways to improve bank resolution and asset disposition).
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Bank performance was satisfactory. In general the project was well designed and
consistent with the Bank's country strategy. Bank staff worked very close with their counterparts
in the Colombian Government.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The commitment of the Government to the reform of the financial system and a consistent
implementation of risk control measures, was instrumental in the satisfactory outcome of this
project. The Government maintained a very positive policy dialogue with the Bank during this
initial phase of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Both Government and implementing agency performance was very satisfactory. The
Government was highly committed to the reforms and at the macroeconomic level, maintained
strong support from the IMF.
76 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance was highly satisfactory. Once the requisite banking
legislation was approved, the implementing agencies (FOGAFIN and SBC) immediately applied
the new regulatory procedures and resolution mechanisms.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
After consideration of the above-mentioned factors and of the outcome of the
project, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as highly satisfactory.
- 24 -



8. Lessons Learned
The principal lessons derived from the outcome of this project include the following:
i. Ample preparatory work, particularly sector analysis, is critical to the success of a Loan. In
the case of the FSAL the Government had already started to prepare analysis of the financial
sector problems with assistance from the Bank TA Loan. The external consultancy helped to
identify key weaknesses in banking supervision; and the Bank's sector work as part of the
FSAP was valuable in terms of program design.
ii. Strong Government commitment to the program along with the high quality of officials
involved in the implementation was instrumental in the positive outcome. At times
Government commitment was reflected in policy decisions that went beyond the Bank's
recommendations as in the case of the decision to bring all public sector banks either to the
point of sale or to cease their operations.
iii. Some reforms of the financial system do not simply involve the passage of legislation or
new regulations. since other legal obstacles may prevent their immediate application or the
institutional implementation capacity needs to mature. Slower than expected progress in
terms of the bank resolution practices points to the need for greater sensitivity to the legal
obstacles such as commercial code and property disposal procedures, involved in this process.
iv. Greater attention to market needs and familiarity with new financial instruments is
important to the success of any new initiatives. While the results of the securitization
initiatives supported by the Loan have exceeded expectations, the design of the swap
mechanism to be used by banks in managing their interest rate risk has been somewhat
disappointing. While the latter was not formally part of the loan program and therefore
somewhat outside the scope of this evaluation, it is simply observed that the lack of interest by
banks can also be attributed to the complexity of design.
v. The Policy Based Guarantee, having benefited from the Government's compliance with the
first tranche of the loan, was implemented under an already sound policy platform. The
credibility of the earlier actions already accomplished under the program, were instrumental in
garnering sufficient investor interest which helped Colombia meet its external financing
requirements. In this respect, hybrid loan/guarantee operations should be examined with
interest to determine if they provide more "policy leverage" and better sequencing than
stand-alone policy guarantee operations.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
GOVERNMENT COMMENTS ON THE FSAL PROGRAM
Antecedentes
Dentro de las acciones emprendidas por el Gobierno Nacional para atender la crisis del sector
- 25 -



financiero, se destaca la biisqueda del apoyo de la banca multilateral para financiar el costo que
implicaba hacer frente esa crisis. Fue asi como se contrat6 el credito BIRF 7000-CO, en diciembre de
1999.
El mencionado credito tenia como objetivo minimizar el riesgo sistemico en el sistema financiero
colombiano y promover la capacidad de ahorro en el largo plazo y la eficacia del sistema, objetivos que
iban en la direcci6n de apoyar el crecimiento econ6mico del pais.
Para alcanzar estos objetivos se previeron reformas en las siguientes areas:
1.  Politicas macroecon6micas consistentes con los objetivos del programa
2.   Fortalecimiento del esquema legal, de regulaci6n e institucional del sistema financiero
3.  Reestructuraci6n y desmonte de la banca puiblica
4.   Reformas al sistema cooperativo y a la financiaci6n vivienda
5.  compatibilizar los programas especiales de financiamiento al sector fmanciero por parte de
FOGAFIN con su papel como entidad aseguradora de dep6sitos
Los Componentes y sus resultados
Politicas macroecon6micas consistentes con los objetivos del programa
Se cumplieron las metas respecto a la reducci6n del deficit fiscal, la inflaci6n y la tasa de interes.
El informe de evaluaci6n del prestamo, en cabeza del Banco Mundial, califica el mismo como
satisfactorio dada la calidad del plan y su desarrollo, el compromiso del Gobierno y la persistente
supervisi6n bancaria que redund6 en resultados exitosos.
En efecto, como resultado de las acciones adelantadas, en el marco de los objetivos del credito, se logr6
reducir la inflaci6n a su nivel hist6rico mas bajo, la tasa de interes y el deficit del sector publico no
financiero, a pesar del dificil entomo econ6mico, politico, intemacional y de seguridad.
Fortalecimiento del esquema legal. regulatorio e institucional del sistema financiero
Pare evitar la repetici6n de los problemas por los que atraves6 el sector financiero y sentar las bases
para el desarrollo sano del sector bancario colombiano el Gobiemo impuls6 y reglament6 la Ley 510 de
1999 (Reforma Financiera). Con esta reforma se establecieron mecanismos para hacer mas eficiente y
expedita la resoluci6n de entidades; se establecieron aspectos para fortalecer la regulaci6n y supervisi6n
prudencial; se implementaron esquemas de alerta temprana; se ajust6 el regimen de inversiones y
operaciones de las entidades financieras, etc.
Igualmente, se fortaleci6 la vigilancia bancaria y la regulaci6n prudencial, se promovi6 el desarrollo
oportuno de situaciones de insolvencia en las entidades bancarias, se fortaleci6 institucionalmente a la
Superbancaria y al FOGAFIN, entre otros.
Producto de estas y otras medidas se redujo el riesgo sistemico en el sector y se evito la propagaci6n de
la crisis financiera.
Reestructuraci6n de la banca puiblica
El Gobiemo puso en marcha un plan que le permitiera disminuir su participaci6n en las entidades
- 26 -



financieras de caracter publico. En este sentido se tomaron acciones para disolver y liquidar la Caja
Agraria y crear una nueva instituci6n sin los vicios del pasado pero que atienda al sector agropecuario y
las poblaciones apartadas, dadas las fallas de mercado.
Este fue el componente mas desafiante del programa dada la diversidad de instituciones y la complejidad
de sus problemas que unidos a obstaculos legales y politicos hacia dificil adelantar estas acciones. No
obstante, se lograron importantes aspectos como la liquidacion del Banco Central Hipotecario, la fusi6n
de Uconal con Banestado, el marchitamiento y desmonte progresivo de Banestado, la puesta en punto de
venta de Bancafe, el saneamiento de Granahorrar, la liquidacion de la FES, la reducci6n de la
participaci6n del Estado en fiduciarias puiblicas y la creaci6n de CISA.
Desafortunadamente, problemas de indole legal impidieron la implementacion de la estrategia de
reducci6n de la participaci6n del Estado en los bancos de segundo piso.
Reformas al sistema cooperativo v a la financiaci6n de vivienda
El programa apunt6 a racionalizar la actividad de las instituciones cooperativas diferenciandolas entre
cooperativas fmancieras y cooperativas de ahorro y credito.
A las cooperativas financieras se les sujeto a las normas y supervisi6n de la Superintendencia Bancaria
como cualquier intermediario financiero. En este sentido se aplicaron nuevas reglas de regulaci6n
prudencial que llevo a una depuracion de este tipo de entidades.
Por otra parte, se creo la Superintendencia de Economia Solidaria y el Fondo de Garantias de las
Cooperativas con el objeto de supervisar en forma estricta y otorgarle seguro de dep6sitos a los
ahorradores de las cooperativas de ahorro y cr6dito.
Estas medidas redundaron en la recuperaci6n del sector cooperativo financiero y en la recuperaci6n de
los ahorradores del sector.
El campo de la financiaci6n fue uno de los que mas exigio al Gobiemo y al Banco Mundial en la
busqueda de soluciones. Vale la pena destacar la ley 546 de 1999 - ley de vivienda- que estableci6
diferentes criterios y objetivos para regular la financiaci6n de vivienda. Mediante la reglamentaci6n de
dicha ley se definieron aspectos como la titularizaci6n , el fondo para cubrir el riesgo por el descalce de
tasas de interes que presentan las entidades hipotecarias, las condiciones minimas que deben tener los
prestamos hipotecarios, los alivios a deudores, los sistemas de amortizaci6n de los creditos hipotecarios,
etc.
Las interpretaciones de la Corte Constitucional hicieron mas complejo la implementaci6n de medidas en
aras de solucionar los problemas relativos a financiaci6n de vivienda, lo cual implico adoptar medidas
adicionales por parte del Gobiemo Nacional en este campo.
Sobre el Fondo de Estabilizaci6n de la Cartera Hipotecaria, disefiado para cubrir el riesgo descalce de
tasas de interes que presentan las entidades hipotecarias, consideramos que no ha sido utilizado por los
bancos hipotecarios en la medida que las tasas de interes han estado relativamente bajas. En todo caso,
no sobra sefialar que la cobertura estA a disposici6n de los bancos para que la utilicen en el momento
que consideren adecuado.
Apoyo al programa de FOGAFIN para racionalizar el sector financiero
- 27 -



FOGAFIN implement6 exitosamente varias medidas tendiente a lograr el fortalecimiento del sector
fmanciero privado, lo cual contribuy6 eficazmente a recuperar la confianza en el sistema. En vista del
rol importante que FOGAFIN jugaba en la resoluci6n de problemas del sector fmanciero se deline6
claramente los diferentes tipos de actividades del mismo, separando cada area de operaci6n.
Consideraciones Finales
Todos estos resultados positivos se alcanzaron con el apoyo y la colaboraci6n tecnica del Banco
Mundial y dado el compromiso del Gobiemo y las distintas entidades por adelantar las politicas
previstas en el programa. Por esta raz6n, la calificaci6n global de los distintos componentes ha sido
calificada por el Banco Mundial como satisfactoria.
El Programa de Ajuste al Sector Financiero fue fundamental para la implementaci6n de diferentes
politicas y medidas dirigidas a fortalecer el sistema fmanciero colombiano.
PRECISIONES Y AJUSTES AL INFORME DE EVALUACION DEL BANCO MUNDIAL
Se sugiere sustituir la palabra CAVS por los BECH porque la definici6n de CAVs ya no existe
legalmente.
Se considera que uno de los factores que incidi6 en el alza considerable de las tasas de interes no fue
el limitado acceso a los mercados intemacionales sino que fue el deseo de proteger el esquema de
banda cambiaria.
Se debe precisar que s6lo se cre6 una Subdirecci6n (la de Recuperaci6n de Activos) en la Reforma
de la Estructura Administrativa de FOGAFIN porque la Subdirecci6n de Operaciones y Financiera
se habia dividido en dos previamente. Se debe precisar que CISA s6lo ha tenido que ver con el
manejo de los activos improductivos de los bancos puiblicos y no exactamente de los activos de las
entidades que se encuentran bajo liquidaci6n. Sin embargo, este hecho esta mencionado en el
numeral 43.
Se debe aclarar que en el caso de los Bancos del Estado y Banco Uconal no fue factible trasladar los
activos malos a CISA. Por lo tanto, el BanEstado actual fusionado con el Banco Uconal esta
administrando esos activos.
No es claro si el significado de "significant portfolio" hace relaci6n a non-perfor ming portfolio".
El camino que esta siguiendo FOGAFIN relativo a la liquidaci6n del banco es aclarar los aspectos
legales que le penmitan sin riesgos tomar al Gobiemo tomar la decisi6n respecto a su liquidaci6n.
Por lo tanto no es claro el sentido de la fease "once the outstanding legal claims ...are settled..
porque el tiempo que tomara resolver las controversias juridicas puede ser de mas de 10 anios
adicionales. Ademas seria pertinente aclarar que el status de la FES no es cooperativo sino era una
fundaci6n que tiene un caracterjuridico diferente.
Granahorrar. Aunque la estrategia senialada fue la que se disenlo en un comienzo es posible que el
esquema que adopte el Gobiemo sufra modificaciones.
-28 -



Favor corregir las cifras de transferencias son de $182 mil millones en 1999, $215 mil millones en
2000 y $ 184 mil millones en 2001.
COMENTARIOS ADICIONALES
El PIB cay6 el 3.4% en 1997 al 0.6% y -4.2% en 1998 y 1999, respectivamente.
Las perdidas del sistema fmanciero fueron de $1,9 billones y $2,7 billones en 1998 y 1999. En
este u1timo afio, el 75% de dichas perdidas correspondieron a los bancos publicos.
-   Complementar:
Decretos de Emergencia Econ6mica: Decretos 2330 y 2331 de 1998
Complementar:
Considerar que los objetivos generales de la resoluci6n de la crisis financiera fueron:
Evitar el riesgo sistemico
Garantizar la confianza en el sistema financiero
Minimizar el costo fiscal
Complementar:
Otras medidas complementarias faeron:
Acciones estructurales para reducir las tasas de interes y generar liquidez en la
economia.
Generar medidas de apoyo al sector real de la economia en dificultades (Ley 550 de
1999 de Intervenci6n Econ6mica).
Fortalecimiento del Sistema de Seguro de Dep6sitos
Consolidar la reducci6n sostenida del IPC
Aclarar:
Banco Agrario de Colombia
Para efectos de analisis siempre se ha considerado Banco Uconal y BanEstado como
uno s6lo.
Complementar:
Articulo 30 de la Ley 546 de 1999 mediante el cual la Naci6n a traves de Fogafin
garantiza los bonos y titulos hipotecarios VIS subsidiable.
-29 -



Complementar.
Las entidades cooperativas de caracter financiero pasaron a ser vigiladas por la
Superintendencia Bancaria de Colombia.
Aclarar el papel fundamental que jug6 la estrategia tomada para Megabanco en el sector
cooperativo.
Complementar:
Corregir el dato de inflaci6n en 1998 del 16.7% y no 20.4%.
El cuadro de indicadores se puede complementar con la siguiente informaci6n:
1997       1998       1999       2000       2001       2002 est
GDP        3.4%       10.6%      -4.2%       2.7%       1.4%       1.6%
Inflaci6n   17.7%      16.7%      9.2%       8.7%       7.6%       6.0%
Complementar:
En efecto, conforme con las directrices establecidas por la Superintendencia Bancaria de
Colombia, los recursos que administra Fogafin estan plenamente identificados diferentes fondos
independientes del de seguro de dep6sitos.
Complementar:
Con respecto a la liquidaci6n del BCH, aclarar que se esta en la etapa de la
conmutaci6n del pasivo pensional y la venta de activos remantes.
Complementar:
Se espera que la vinculaci6n de capital privado via venta o capitalizaci6n del Bancafe se
culmine en el 2003, para lo cual se requiere el traslado del pasivo pensional al FOPEP.
Complementar:
Aclarar que las finanzas del Fondo y el apoyo al sector bancario pfiblico fue posible
tambien, mediante la emisi6n de Bonos Banca Publica por $4,95 billones, los cuales serin
servidos con vigencias futuras del Presupuesto General de la Naci6n.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not available.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
- 30-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Based on MOP Projections
I Maintain a satisfactory Macroeconomic  Government's macroeconomic program on target;
Framework                            inflation and interest rates down significantly,
contributing to a more stable financial system.
II. Strengthen the Legal. Regulatory and Amended Law passed in 1999: enhances ability of
Institutional Framework of the Financial regulators to act quickly and take corrective measures
System                             to prevent systemic problems and support sustainable
growth.
Capital adequacy ratios of the banking system
increased significantly, thus improving the system's
ability to withstand economic shocks and downturns.
SBC implementation of intensively supervised
"institutional recovery programs" contributed to
reduced incidence of bank failures and avoidance of
systemic crisis.
Greater depth of regulatory norms and increased
effectiveness in their implementation and in supervision
efforts by SBC and FOGAFIN which has reduced
systemic risk. Market based burden sharing
mechanisms implemented to absorb risks via sale of
assets.
III Restructuring and Resolution of
State-Owned Banks
New Banco, Agrario has improved the quality of the
loan portfolio of public sector banks.
Closure and eventual sale of publicly owned banks has
substantially reduced the presence of the Govemment
in the financial sector and increased the efficiency of
the system and prospects for sustainable growth.
Restructuring of State banks and second-tier banks has
contributed to greater efficiency in financial
intermediation by passing on greater participation to
private sector banks.
IV. Reform of the Cooperatives System
By applying same rules to financial cooperatives as
those applied to other intermediaries, inherent
-31 -



structural weakness of this sub-sector has been largely
diminished. The current seven financial cooperatives
are in the process of diversifying their business into
other asset / liability products in line with their
competitive strengths.
V. Rationalization of Special Programs  FOGAFIN has been able to increase its efficiency as it
Implemented by FOGAFIN             has increased the number of financial intermediaries
participating in special programs without detracting
from its basic deposit insurance functions. The special
programs have provided temporary support while
financial institutions become more strongly capitalized.
Output Indicators:
Indicator                            Actual/Latest Estimate
Based on MOP Projections
I Maintain a satisfactory Macroeconomic  Government's macroeconomic program on target;
Framework                             fiscal deficit reduced; inflation and interest rates
down significantly.
II. A. passage of Amended Financial  Amended Law passed in 1999: enhances ability to
Institution Law                     regulators to act quickly to prevent systemic
problems. Regulatory and supervisory mechanisms
implemented to execute Law.
II. A. (i) appropriate prudential rules  Risk-based capital standards as well as more
stringent loan classification and loss provisioning
rules implemented. Both contributed to lower
systemic risk
II A. (ii) system of prompt corrective  Explicit criteria established for the so-called
actions                             "recovery program" for troubled banks to be
monitored by SBC. This approach lowers the risk of
bank failures.
II A. (iii) market-based bank resolution Capitalization program administered by FOGAFIN
devices                             assists troubled, but viable, banks early on, and
liquidation or loan portfolio sale process improved.
II A. (iv) FOGAFIN financing to be  Banks that participate in a capitalization program are
explicitly conditioned             required to implement a recovery program. This will
improve the efficiency of the system and help to
promptly liquidate insolvent institutions.
II. A (v) clear separations of     Financial control mechanisms in place to ensure that
FOGAFIN's various functions         all funds are managed separately, thus improving the
- 32 -



efficiency and safeguards to depositors, under the
regulatory function.
H. B Institutional strengthening plan in  Restructuring plan recommended by McKinsey and
FOGAFIN.                          Co.was implemented early on contributing to
increased efficiency and internal capacity
strengthening of the agency.
II.C Institutional strengthening plan in  Strengthening plan implemented with consequent
SBC.                              efficiency gains and development of sophisticated
risk monitoring systems to track the condition of
financial institutions.
III. A. Dissolved Caja Agraria and make Closure of Caja Agraria and establishment of Banco
Banco Agrario operational         Agrario should contribute to enhanced efficiency of
financial intermediation by the public sector.
III. B. Investment bank hired to pursue  Investment banks hired with the following outcomes:
privatization of 5 state-owned banks  BCH and BanEstado have ceased operations and
their assets along with commensurate liabilities
transferred to other financial institutions; FES was
also liquidated; sale of Granahorrar not feasible and
will be dismantled; and sale of Bancafe delayed due
to unfavorable market conditions. Government is
now seeking a strategic partner to buy 51 percent of
the bank. When completed, this will have noticeably
reduced the involvement of the Government in the
financial system.
III. C. Complete study to rationalize  Study completed and recommendations called for
second-tier state-owned institutions  consolidation of existing entities, while removing
market-distorting practices such as simultaneous 1st
tier lending. Implementation of this component
should result in greater efficiency in financial
intermediation.
IV. A Adoption by SBC of proper rules  New rules were implemented and number of financial
for financial cooperatives        cooperatives sharply reduced from a potential of 54
entities to about 7. Application of same standards as
other financial intermediaries should contribute to
lower risks of systemic problems.
V. Steps taken to ensure the separation of  FOGAFIN has adopted internal control mechanisms
FOGAFIN's special programs           to ensure appropriate separation of its various
activities. This will help the entity focus its attention
more effectively on each initiative, and thus
contribute to greater effectiveness in managing
financial sector problems, while protecting deposit
insurance funds.
- 33 -



-34 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not Applicable.
- 35 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable.
- 36 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
I / 1999                    1   TM/Financial Sector/Economist
3 / 1999                    3    TM/Financial Sector/Economist
Banking
Housing Finance
5 / 1999                    5    Banking Restructuring
TM/Financial Sector
Banking Supervision
Housing Finance
Securities Markets
Appraisal/Negotiation
10 / 1999                   4   TM/Financial Sector /
Economist
Treasury Operations
Financial Management
Legal
Supervision
12/ 1999                    1   TM/Financial Sector /              S             S
Economist
5/2000                      5    Banking                           S             S
Housing Finance
Capital Markets
TM/Financial Sector / Economist
12 / 2000                   4   TM/Financial Sector / Economist   HS            HS
Housing Finance
Banking Restructuring
Banking Supervision
6 / 2001                     3   TM/Financial Sector / Economist   HS           HS
Banking
Housing Finance
ICR
11 / 2002                   2    Banking/Economist                 HS            S
Financial Sector Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actial/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              17.0                      98,655
Appraisal/Negotiation                   16.0                      72,197
Supervision                             20.6                     149,659
ICR                                      6.0                      21,700
Total                                   59.6                     342,211
- 37 -



- 38 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
0 Macro policies                     O H *SUOM O N O NA
El Sector Policies                   * H OSUOM O N O NA
Ol Physical                          O H OSUOM       O N * NA
O Financial                          * H OSUOM       O N O NA
Ol Institutional Development         0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Ol Environmental                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
O Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Gender                       O H OSUOM       O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM ON         * NA
O Private sector development         0 H 0 SU O M 0 N 0 NA
O Public sector management           O H OSUOM O N O NA
O Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N O NA
- 39 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                               Rating
? Lending                                          OHS OS       OU     OHU
N Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU     OHU
N Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                           Rating
0 Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU     O HU
? Government implementation performance            * HS O S     0 U    0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                * HS O S     0 U    0 HU
X Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
-40 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Ministry of Finance, Diagnostico Sobre la Banca de Segundo Piso en Colombia y Evaluaci6n de
Altemativas, October 1998.
World Bank and IMF, Colombia: FSAP Draft Report, August 1999.
FOGAFIN, Estrategia Para la Soluci6n de los Problemas del Sector Financiero, September 21,
1999.
FOGAFIN, Impacto Fiscal de las Medidas del Proyecto de Ley de Vivienda, October 1999.
Banking Superintendency, Las Cooperativas Financieras y su Entorno, September 1999.
Superintendency of Banks, Programa de Fortalecimiento de la Superintendencia Bancana, 1999.
Memorandum of the President, Report No. P 7337 CO, October 20, 1999
World Bank, Housing Finance Reform and Mortgage Instruments in Colombia, report, October
30, 2002.
World Bank Policy Guarantee for US$ 1.0 Billion Amortizing Notes, Ex-Post Evaluation of the
Guaranteed Issue, Draft Report by the Bank, 2001
FOGAFIN, Annual Reports, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
Superintendency of Banks, Annual Reports, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001.
InterAmerican Development Bank, Informe de Terminaci6n de Proyecto, 2001.
- 41 -



-42 -






,-,;,tJIu' No.:          25259
Type:          R



