               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development                         87520
                        International Development Association
                          International Finance Corporation
                      Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                   CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                       EDS99-327
                                                                                 November 17, 1999
                                                                                      05:56:25 PM

    Statement by Mr. Wan Abdul Aziz Wan Abdullah
    Date of Meeting: November 18, 1999

                  Colombia: (i) Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report; (ii)
                                   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan

            This progress report provides a useful and timely update on the implementation of
    Colombia's Country Assistance Strategy approved in November 1997, especially in view of
    developments that have taken place since the new administration began in August 1998.
    Despite numerous setbacks, acknowledgement must be accorded to the Pastrana Government
    for laying out a solid policy platform in its National Development Plan and the achievements it
    has made so far. Let me make a few observations on the economic front, the Government's
    efforts, the CAS progress, and the revised Bank Group country program. We also would like
    to outline our support for the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
    Economic Issues
           On the economic front; the widening fiscal and external account deficits, external trade
    shocks through recent declines in the price of oil and coffee, and the tight international credit
    markets, illustrate the policy challenges facing the Government as it seeks to maneuver the
    economy out of what is apparently a worsening trend. Understandably, the situation presents
    some rather limited choices, thus the need for external support to stabilize fiscal and monetary
    conditions in the short to medium term.
            In terms of the projections made, we note that the bulk of the fiscal adjustment hinges
    on the tax measures that still have to be passed in Congress, which are subject to potential
    resistance from strong interest groups. At the same time, these measures are expected to be
    augmented by cuts on the expenditure side in investment and wage bills, measures that could
    also trigger adverse reactions. We wonder how staff see these possibilities, especially when
    they are likely to upset the corresponding measures on the monetary side and possibly affect
    external balances.
    Government's Efforts


, T1is document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
· :---~ ;:·~)mnncc of their official duties. Its contents may not otherv..:ise be disclosed without
  -·: _, ~ :.J B.1n..l.: ::w thoriz::ui on.
         We note that Government has however made substantial progress in recognizing the
weaknesses in the financial sector and has taken decisive steps to address them. The
legislative reforms recently approved by Congress and other restructuring and recapitalization
initiatives pursued by Government are indeed commendable. These changes would certainly
pave the way to effectively pursue further reform measures and strengthen the beleaguered
financial sector.
       Government's efforts in addressing poverty and inequality are very well-targeted and
focused. Similarly, we are encouraged by progress made in the range of crucial initiatives
outlined in the National Development Plan and supported by the Bank in the areas of peace
building, good governance, and transparency. However, the Government's proposed social
protection and safety net programs, not to mention the earthquake response, would still require
a concerted and continued support by the Bank and IDB as highlighted.
CAS Progress
        The Bank appears to be progressing well in the strategic areas of intervention that will
support the two main objectives. We commend management and staff, recognizing the
difficulties they face. We however note the dis:,::>pointing progress in the application of
market-assisted land reforms due to increased violence and weak institutional capacity.
Capacity strengthening should be strongly reflected in the CAS since it is also integral to
efforts in other areas like health reforms, education decentralization, public sector
management, and infrastructural services. We would welcome staffs' elaboration on this
issue.
        Violence seems to affect progress in rural development and is also highlighted as a
factor in the GEF's projects. In our opinion, this can be a litmus test for the Bank's approach
to civil society participation, which must go beyond the emphasis on Bank-NGO interaction.
A wide section of civil society may fall outside the representation of NGOs so the Bank must
ensure that all segments of civil society are represented at least justifiably. Nevertheless, we
understand that the Bank's efforts cannot be as exhaustive as preferred and the Bank must be
aware of and appreciate the sensitivities and tensions that exist between the various
stakeholders.
Revised Bank Group Country Program
       We support the proposed revision of the lending scenario moving from the base case to
the high case lending scenario of around $450 million per year for FY98-0l. Whilst we
recognize the lingering risks, we agree that the revision is well justified as outlined in
paragraph 57. Moreover, the increased lending will effectively meet Colombia's financing
needs, which has become critical in the face of unanticipated turn of events, internationally and
domestically.
            IFC's programs will continue to complement and reinforce the results of the Bank's
    assistance and we welcome their intentions to broaden their portfolios in crucial areas like
    SMEs, agribusiness, etc. Likewise, MIGA's program is no less complementary and
    reinforcing. On the non-lending services we see a wealth of knowledge being generated
    through the Bank's work on conflict and violence in Colombia as a pioneering piece of work;
    particularly the causes and effects, and its impact on growth, poverty and development in
    general.
           Finally, we would like the reiterate the need for the Bank to be cautious and to closely
    monitor the risk areas. Given the likelihood of adverse situations, certain proactive measures
    may be necessary, as well as the flexibility to be as responsive as practically possible. In this
    regard, continued collaboration and consultation with the authorities should be maintained.


                                  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
            We support the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan to Colombia. We hope
    this loan will be crucial in supporting the Government in implementing its comprehensive
    program on financial sector reforms, which we found so vital for its overall economic reforms.
    We are happy to note that all special conditions for disbursement of the first tranche have
    already met by the Government. We are also encouraged that the IMF has announced
    tentative plans for the Extended Funding Facility (EFF) of up to US$2. 7 billion to finance
    Columbia's reform efforts. However, as the total cost of reform is estimated at over US$6
    billion and the Bank's contribution is only about $500 million, we hope that the financing gap
    will be supplemented by Government's domestic resources and additional donor resources .




..............-----------------------
