Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7337 CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT OF EUR 482.3 MILLION
(EQUIVALENT TO US$505.6 MILLION)
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FORA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
October 20, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
peiformance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective end-September 1999)
Currency Unit   =  Pesos ($)
US$1.00        =  $2008
EUR 1.00       =  US$1.04725
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFP              -  Private Pension Fund Administrator
BANCOLDEX        -  Colombia's EX-IM Bank
BCH              -  Banco Central Hipotecario (state-owned mortgage bank)
BR               -  Banco de la Republica (Central Bank)
CAF              -  Andean Development Corporation
CAS              -  Country Assistance Strategy
CAV              -  Savings and Loan Corporation
CF               -  Financial Corporation
CFC              -  Finance and Leasing Company
DTF              -  Index of interest rates on term deposits
EEF              -  Extended Fund Facility
FDIC             -  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FEN              -  Agency channeling credits and guarantees to power sector
FOGACOOP         -  Deposit insurance and resolution agency for Cooperatives
FOGAFIN          -  Bank Deposit Insurance and Resolution Agency for Financial
Institutions
FINAGRO          -  Second-Tier Rediscount Agency for Agricultural Loans
FOREC            -  Coffee Region Reconstruction Fund (CRRF)
FSAL             -  Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
IDB              -  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF              -  International Monetary Fund
NFPS             -  Non-Financial Public Sector
SAL              -  Structural Adjustment Loan
SB               -  Superintendencia Bancaria (Banking Superintendency)
SECAL            -  Sector Adjustment Loan
VAT              -  Value Added Tax
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Director:  Andres Solimano
Sector Director:  Danny Leipziger
Sector Leader/Task Team Leader:  Krishna Challa



FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page
Loan and Project Summary ......................................... .             .       .        .
1. Recent Economic Developments and Prospects                                 ..I
A. Economic Context and Recent Developments .1
B. External Environment.2
C. Fiscal and Monetary Developments                                   .2
D- Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements                             .4
. Financial Sector Context                                         ..5
A. Sector structure and context                                   .5
B. Recent sector evolution .......................................................................................6......................... .....6
C. Housing finance institutions ..8
D. State-owned and "officialized" banks ............................8...................8
E. The Cooperatives Sector .................................................................................................9
F. Institutional strengthening of Banking Superintendency and FOGAFIN . .......................................... 10
G. Other key segments of the financial sector ....      ...........................................................10
Ill. The Proposed Financial Sector Reform Program .............................................         12
A. Special one-time relief and recapitalization programs ...................................................................... 12
B. Structural Reforms in the Financial Sector .............................................           14
IV. Bank Group Strategy .............................................                                   20
V. The Proposed Loan and Conditionality                  .. ........................................... 21
A. Program Management and Loan Administration ............................................. 21
B. Disbursement and Auditing Arrangements ...................................1.................................................... 21
C. Financing Plan ............................................. 21
D. Benefits and Risks .............................................                                  22
VI. Recommendation .............................................                                        23
Annex 1: Matrix of Reform Actions .............................................                         25
Annex 2: Letter f Development Policy ............................................. 28
Annex 3: Colombia: Principles of Prompt Corrective Action
and Resolution of Financial Institutions .............................................        38
Annex 4: Roots of the current financial sector difficulties   .      ..       ......................................... 41
Annex 5: Key Economic Indicators .......................................... .                           45
Annex 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia                 .......................................... 48
Annex 7: Colombia At-a-Glance ........................................... 50
This loan was prepared by Krishna Challa (Sector Leader and Task Team Leader. LCC4C); Augusto de la
Torre (Lead Specialist, LCSFP); David Yuravlivker (Lead Economist, LCC4C); Issarn Abousleiman
(LOAEL); Baralides Alberdi (LCSFP); Jose Antonio Alepuz (LEGLA); Edgardo E. Barandiaran (LCSFP);
Jose Augusto Carvaiho (LEGLA); Fernando De Mergelina (LCSFP); Walter Zunic (LCSFP); Connie Luff
(Country Officer, LCC4C); and Zeinab Partow (Country Economist, LCC4C). The team also worked very
closely with an IDB team led by Mr. Edgardo Demaestri in connection with a parallel loan. The tean
gratefully acknowledges the support provided by Alain Ize (IMF) in connection with the Financial Sector
Assessment and George Bouza and Virginia Barreto who were in charge of putting together various
documents and administrative arrangements.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






- l -
COLOMBIA
FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Government of Colombia
Implementing Agency: Ministry of Finance and Public Credit; FOGAFIN; Superintendency
of Banks
Amount & Terms:      Fixed Spread Loan for Euro 482.3 million (about US$506 million
equivalent) with 17 years maturity, including 5 years of grace
period, and an option for automatic rate fixing.
Commitment Fee:      0.85 percent (including 0.1 percent risk premium) on undisbursed
loan balances for the first 4 years, beginning 60 days after loan
signing, 0.75 percent thereafter.
Front End Fee:       1 percent of the loan amount payable upon effectiveness.
Description:         The FSAL would support a comprehensive program of financial
sector reform being implemented by the Government of Colombia.
The loan would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The main
Program objectives are to support: (i) required changes in financial
sector legislation and regulations to facilitate strengthening of bank
supervision and deposit insurance, and to promote timely, fair and
efficient resolution of banks facing financial solvency problems;
(ii) to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Superintendency of
Banks and the entity responsible for deposit insurance and bank
resolution (FOGAFIN); (iii) restructuring, recapitalization,
privatization and, if necessary, liquidation of state owned and
"officialized" banks currently under public sector management;
(iv) effective implementation of special measures to address the
immediate impact on the financial system stemming from economic
and other emergencies. The Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB) and Corporacion Andina de Fomento (CAF) are expected to
provide complementary financing to support the financial sector
reform program.
Risks and Safeguards: The strategy supported by the program is to minimize the chance of
a debilitating systemic risk in the Colombian financial system
through a macro-economic program that enables stabilization and
significant reductions in real interest rates, combined with a timely
and effective implementation of prudential rules and supervision,
preventive measures, special recapitalization actions, and case-by-
case resolution. The Government's financing plan also seeks to
minimize the burden placed by the Program on the general budget



- ii -
revenues. An important risk affecting the transition of the financial
system back to a healthy state is the Government's inability to
contain the real interest rates in the economy to moderate levels
which would directly impact on the capacity of borrowers to service
their debt. The Government as well as the central bank are acutely
aware of this, and are making their best efforts to address the issue
through the implementation of a demanding fiscal program,
comprehensive structural reforms, and instilling confidence in
international and domestic investors through a credible stabilization
plan and exchange rate management. A significant worsening of
the external environment through renewed turbulence in
international financial markets could disrupt the implementation of
the fiscal adjustment program and the achievement of the stated
macroeconomic goals. The proposed program, with its emphasis on
structural reforns in the financial sector and efficient case-by-case
resolution of credit institutions, helps minimize the risks of a fully
blown systemic crisis through appropriate incentives and builds
greater preparedness to tackle such an eventuality. A failure by the
Government to put in place in a timely manner the improvements in
the institutional capacity and resolution process, or significant
problems discovered during the planned intensive banking
supervision, could elevate the potential for systemic risk. The
clearly laid out program of actions to be taken prior to the Board
presentation and second tranche under the proposed loan are
designed to minimize such a risk.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO COLOMBIA
FOR A FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan to the Government of Colombia for EUR 482.3 million (about US$505.6
million equivalent) in support of a Financial Sector Adjustment Program.
I. RECENT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENTS AND PROSPECTS
A. Economic Context and Recent Developments
2.    After decades of consistently solid growth and prudent economic management,
Colombia today is in the midst of its sharpest recession in over sixty years. That comes
as a shock to a country whose GDP has grown every year for more than six decades.
Notwithstanding a growth record averaging over 4 percent per year for the past forty
years, the economy perfornance remained below its potential. Productivity in most
sectors has been stagnant and inflation has remained in the range of 20-30 percent since
the mid-1970s.
3.    During the 1990s, growing fiscal and external imbalances became the main threat
to macroeconomic stability. These imbalances have ballooned to worrisome levels by the
mid-1990s: the current account deficit was in the range of 5-6 percent of GDP per year
in 1995-98, while the Non-Financial Public Sector (NFPS) deficit has steadily increased
from 1 percent to over 6 percent of GDP this year. Altogether, over the past several
years, the Colombian economy has under-performed compared to most other Latin
American countries in terms of GDP growth as well as in its fiscal and balance of
payment accounts. Today, the country faces significantly negative growth for 1999 and
an unemployment rate of close to 20 percent.
4.    The Colombian economy's performance has deteriorated sharply in the last three
years: (i) the fiscal accounts of the non-financial public sector, which were roughly
balanced in the early 1 990s, are projected to show an estimated deficit of 6.2 percent of
GDP in 1999 (Table 1); (ii) GDP fell by 6.7 percent in the first half of 1999 as compared
to the previous year; and (iii) the current account of the balance of payments reached a
deficit of 5.7 percent of GDP in 1998, although it is expected to fall to about 2.5 percent
of GDP in 1999 due to a sharp decline in imports.' Economic decline has been
accompanied by a rapid increase in unemployment, which in urban areas stood at 20
percent in September 1999. Restoring fiscal balance is needed if Colombia's efforts at
These ratios use the revised GDP series - the result of a recent revision of the National Accounts --
which for 1999 are about 15 percent higher than previous figures.



- 2 -
poverty reduction and more rapid medium-term growth are to be realized. It is also
crucial for the resolution of problems in the financial sector.
5.    The weakening of the country's economic situation and the wish to enhance the
credibility of its economic policies, have prompted the Pastrana Administration to
formally request an Extended Fund Facility (EFF). The US$2.7 billion progran is
centered on fiscal consolidation and structural reforms, including a plan to address the
difficulties faced by the financial sector. Along with the reduction of the fiscal deficit, a
cut in the external current account deficit to sustainable levels is also being sought. The
program, which is expected to be approved by the IMF Board of Directors in the fourth
quarter of 1999, would be the country's first IMF funding arrangement since the 1 970s.
Implementation of the program requires strong fiscal discipline, and passage by the
Colombian Congress of fiscal and tax reform packages and the second round of structural
reform measures described below.
B. External Environment
6.    Colombia's external environment also deteriorated substantially throughout 1998
and into 1999. The country was hit by severe shocks: (i) a trade shock due to the drop in
oil and coffee prices, estimated at 1.5 percent of GDP; and (ii) events in international
credit markets stemming from the East Asia crisis of 1998 and its secondary effects in
Latin America, which have increased the cost of borrowing and decreased the availability
of external finance for both the public and private sectors. Moreover, with the virtual
closing of international credit markets to developing economies and the skyrocketing cost
of external credit, Colombian authorities have had to turn to the domestic market for
additional financing, putting further pressure on domestic interest rates. Colombia's
investment-grade rating was recently downgraded by three major credit rating companies.
This is a negative development for the country, which for many years was one of the few
in Latin America that enjoyed wide access to international credit markets and was able to
draw on international funds to support the development of its economy. The
downgrading could complicate external financing plans, and the Government is making
efforts to ensure the availability of alternative sources of financing until it can return to
international credit markets under satisfactory conditions.
C. Fiscal and Monetary Developments
7.    The Government has made reducing the fiscal deficit one of its key
macroeconomic objectives. After taking office in August 1998, the Government took
several revenue enhancing and expenditure reducing measures, including measures to
fight tax evasion and smuggling, increasing gasoline surcharges, widening of the VAT
base, improving tax collection, and cutting the operational costs of the Central
Governnent. However, due to external trade shocks, sharply reduced revenues as a result
of the economic downturn, the outlays needed to rebuild the areas affected by a
devastating earthquake in early 1999, and the need to shore-up the ailing financial sector,
this year's deficit is projected to exceed that of 1998 (see Table 1).



- 3 -
Table 1: Economic Indicators
Projected
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999
Real GDP Growth              5.2       2.0        2.8        0.6       -4.5
Inflation                    19.5      21.6       17.7       16.7      11.0
NFPS balance/GDP             -1.0      -2.4       -3.7      -3.7       -6.2
Current Account Bal./GDP     -5.0      -4.8       -5.4      -5.7       -2.1
Public External Debt/GDP     15.0      14.9       15.7       18.5      23.3
Total External Debt/GDP     27.0       29.0       31.1      34.9       41.3
Sources: Banco de la Republica, Ministry of Finance, DNP, IMF, and World Bank.
8.    In order to achieve fiscal adjustment that is sustainable in the medium and long-
term, the Government is complementing its stabilization measures with structural refonns
in various areas of public finance. Within the context of the National Development Plan,
in the first half of 1999 Congress approved legal amendments that would improve the
fiscal situation in the medium term, including (i) reform of the resources and
competencies of local governments (Law 60), and increasing the efficiency of
expenditure in education; (ii) improving efficiency in public universities (Law 30);
(iii) changes in royalties allocations to attract private investment; and (iv) reforms to the
Budget Law, to reduce earmarking and improve the allocation of local expenditures. In
addition, Congress passed the Financial System Reform Law, which among other things
raises minimum capital requirements and strengthens the faculties of the Banking
Superintendency and FOGAFIN. Further, proposals for additional structural reforms are
being introduced in the July-December 1999 legislative session: (i) a law to rationalize
public finances, and to curb their expansion: (ii) changes to continue the reform of social
security, including elimination of several special regimes; (iii) measures to curtail the
current expenditures of local governments; (iv) a constitutional amendment to save part
of the transfers to local governments to finance local pension funds; and (v) a
constitutional amendment that would freeze, in real terms, future transfers to local
governments. The Government has also submitted, for congressional approval, an
austere budget for year 2000. To consolidate and expand these reforms, the Government
has fused them into a comprehensive stabilization program that would be supported by
the IMF.
9.    The Central Bank (Banco de la Republica - BR) shifted the exchange rate band
on two occasions over the past year. In September 1998, an upward shift of the exchange
rate band by 9 percent was announced. The ensuing depreciation of the peso resulted in a
real devaluation of about 6 percent in 1998. Several fundamental changes in the past
decade, however, including the opening of the economy in the early 1990s, the high
current account deficit over the past 4 years, the decline in export commodity prices, and
the tightening of external credit suggest that the real exchange rate continued to be
overvalued. These factors, and the country's worsening economic and security
conditions, eventually led to mounting pressures on the currency. In June 1999, faced
with a choice between allowing this imbalance to increase or devaluing, BR opted for the
latter, since higher interest rates would undermine the prospects of economic recovery.
The mid-point of the band thus was raised (devalued) by 9 percent, its width increased
from 14 percent to 20 percent, and its slope, or rate of devaluation, reduced to 10 percent
from 13 percent, in accordance with the lower inflation targets. Pressure on the peso



- 4 -
continued, however, costing BR around US$400 million in September 1999, and pushing
the currency beyond the new ceiling of the band. Thus, on September 25th, BR decided
to abandon the exchange band regime, opting instead for a free float of the peso.
Altogether, during the first nine months of 1999, the Colombian peso has undergone a 20
percent real devaluation.
10.   Since the end of 1998, the Colombian authorities have taken concerted measures
to bring down interest rates, whose reduction is seen as essential for any reactivation of
the economy. The benchmark 90-day deposit rate has dropped from its peak of 37
percent in June 1998 to 18 percent in September 1999. Despite falling interest rates,
however, lending has declined sharply. Banks are reluctant to lend under conditions of
high credit risk, falling collateral prices and tightening liquidity conditions. Further
reductions in real interest rates, and in spreads, can be achieved by continuing to pursue
fiscal adjustment, and through the restructuring of the financial system as planned. Fiscal
adjustment and enhanced confidence should ease the upward pressure on real interest
rates, thereby contributing to a revival of economic growth in 2000-2002, while bringing
down inflation to single digit levels.
D. Economic Prospects and Financing Requirements
11.   As the projections presented in Table 1 show, the rate of GDP growth is expected
to be negative 4.5 percent in 1999, as the slowdown in economic activity has been longer
and deeper than expected. Inflationary pressures have dramatically declined, with the
inflation rate falling from its historical level of near 20 percent to a projected II percent
for 1999. As regards the NFPS deficit, and as mentioned above, the projection is for a
deficit of 6 percent of GDP this year. The bulk of the fiscal adjustment is planned for
2000, when the deficit would fall to 3.5 percent of GDP, in part as a result of an increase
in revenues from the tax measures described above. On the expenditure side, larger
interest payments would be offset by further cuts in Central Government investment and
the wage bill. Starting in 2001, the fiscal adjustment would be achieved mainly through a
reduction in operational expenditures as a result of structural reforms expected to be
introduced this year. The objective of the Government is to end its 4-year term in 2002
with a fiscal deficit of about 1.5 percent of GDP.
12.   The external accounts will be subject to competing pressures. On the one hand,
they would improve as non-traditional exports respond to a more depreciated real
exchange rate, and the cut in the fiscal deficit reduces domestic absorption. Also, a
recovery in the trade balance could be further boosted by an upturn in the prices of oil
and coffee. On the other hand, much of the improvement in the external balance is due to
the decline in imports which would be reversed with any upturn in economic activity.
The forecast is for a current account deficit of 3.5 percent of GDP for 2000 and 2001.
With respect to sources of financing, As Colombia begins to return to international credit
markets, it has sought the assistance of multilaterals to make up for the closure of
international market financing earlier this year.



-5 -
II. FINANCIAL SECTOR CONTEXT
A. Sector structure and context
13.   The Colombian financial system has historically developed under a specialized
banking model, with functions divided between: commercial banks, active in both retail
and wholesale banking; financial corporations (corporacionesfinancieras--CFs) whose
activities are largely based on corporate banking; finance and leasing companies
(companias definanciamiento comercial --CFCs), savings and loan associations
(corporaciones de ahorro y vivienda -CAVs); and a cooperatives sector. As of March
1999, the Colombian financial system had 106 financial institutions (excluding the
cooperatives sector) with assets totaling about US$51 billion equivalent, or 50 percent of
GDP. State-owned institutions accounted for about 20 percent of total assets2, and
foreign institutions for around 17 percent of total assets, with the rest of the financial
intermediation undertaken by domestic private institutions. The legal framework for
financial intermediation was gradually allowed to evolve away from strictly specialized
banking. Most importantly, over time commercial banks have been progressively
allowed to take on virtually all other functions with the exception of investing in equities.
Moreover, the creation of financial conglomerates (gruposfinancieros) with affiliates in
each specialized function was allowed, moving the system progressively towards one-
stop if not universal banking. After a rapid expansion in the number of institutions in the
early 1 990s, Colombian banks experienced recently a process of major consolidation and
the entry of foreign groups. During 1997 and 1998, there were over 40 mergers and
acquisitions. By early 1999, the system included 33 commercial banks, 14 CFs, 6 CAVs,
and 53 CFCs. The consolidation process is continuing, with the system gradually moving
towards mergers into larger commercial banks.
14.   Following a significant tunnoil in the mid-1980's that led to closing and
restructuring of some major financial institutions, the sector benefited from positive rates
of economic growth, considerable improvements in the prudential regulations,
strengthened supervision and institutional improvements. A Banking Framework Law
approved in 1993 laid the basis for longer term improvements, incorporating significant
liberalization of the operations of the different types of financial institutions and clearer
guidelines for affiliate relationships, decreasing credit subsidies and forced investment
requirements, reducing financial system segmentation and regulatory arbitrage among
institutions, and thereby increasing competition in the system. The Law confirmed the
role of the deposit insurance and bank resolution agency (FOGAFIN), which was
established earlier (through Law 117 of 1985) as an instrument to provide partial
guarantees of deposits subject to a maximum coverage (currently about US$7,000
equivalent), and thereby promote greater confidence among depositors. To foster the
development of a healthy banking system, FOGAFIN was also assigned certain functions
2  The main state-owned institutions were: Banco del Estado (a commercial bank), Caja Agrania (an
agricultural credit institution devoted to meet the credit needs of farmers and to attain certain social
and regional development objectives such as the provision of payment services), Banco Central
Hipotecario ( a savings and loan), IFI (Instituto de Fomento Industrial-a finance corporation), and
two institutions that were intervened in 1998 (a commercial bank, Uconal, and a savings and loans,
Granahorrar). Banco Cafetero, owned by the National Coffee Fund, is considered a quasi-
government institution.



-6-
related to facilitating restructuring of problem banks when needed, although these
faculties were not used to any significant extent until 1998. Benefiting from these
institutional improvements, as well as a reasonably good economic growth performance
by Colombia, by the mid- 1 990s the financial system had largely recuperated its solvency
and stability.
B. Recent sector evolution
15.    Since 1995, however, this has been offset by the steadily deteriorating fiscal
situation and low economic growth over the last four years. Application of tight
monetary policy, together with the adverse developments in international capital flows
(e.g., those stemming from the Asia and Brazil crises), devaluation expectations and other
domestic developments,3 led to high and very volatile interest rates. A pattern of boom-
and-bust credit cycle experienced in the 1 990s, with periods of fiscally induced
expenditure expansion followed by protracted periods of high real interest rates and
slowdown in economic activity, stemming from counteracting austerity measures taken
by the authorities, was at the root of these problems (see Annex 4 for a more detailed
description of these underlying roots). Together with the not yet fully developed bank
supervision capacity, inadequate or non-existent supervision of certain segments such as
the cooperatives sector, and continued fragmentation among segmented institutions, this
rekindled a progressive weakening of portfolios of credit institutions since 1995.
Chart 1: Real Interest Rates in Colombia, 1997-99
30                _ _ _ _ _ _      .   . 
25          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
" K,
10
. 15
Jan-97   !vy-97   Sep-97   Jan-98    Mey-98    Sep-98   Jan-99    May-99    Sep-99
Deposit rate   Lending rate
3 Real interest rates on deposits had risen from about 4 percent in the third quarter of 1997 to 18
percent in the last quarter of 1998. Annual real interest rates on loans increased from 14 percent to
26 percent. Although external shocks played a role, several domestic factors may have contributed to
the increase in interest rates: (i) greater demand for credit by the public sector to finance the fiscal
deficit; (ii) increased demand for credit by the private sector and financial institutions due to
expectations of devaluation; (iii) an increase in the flow demand for funds due to distressed
borrowing by both debtors and credit institutions; (iv) a decline in the supply of loanable funds due



- 7 -
16.    The Colombian financial system is currently undergoing a period of substantial
stress. Owing to a sharp deterioration of loan portfolios and a large volume of non
productive assets, the solvency and profitability of financial intermediaries worsened
abruptly during 1998 and the first semester of 1999. At the same time, liquidity
difficulties have been experienced by a number of institutions. The adverse effects were
significantly accentuated by the round of turbulence and volatility in international capital
flows which affected most emerging economies in 1998, progressive withdrawal of
international commercial lending from Latin America. During the 12-month stretch from
the second quarter of 1998 through early 1999, real interest rates on term deposits stayed
consistently in the 12-18 percent range, and average real lending rates were 8-10 percent
above those levels (see Chart 1). These high rates, together with unprecedented low and
negative economic growth since late last year, have stretched the payment capacity of
even the healthiest companies and individual borrowers. Reflecting the difficulties,
reported arrears in the loan portfolio of the total banking system have grown from about 7
percent in September 1996 to more than 9 percent by September 1998, and are currently
estimated at more than 13 percent (see Table 2). The impact on some parts of the system,
such as the cooperatives, institutions engaged in housing and construction finance, and
the smaller trade, financial and leasing institutions has been particularly severe. While
officially reported arrears in commercial bank loans rose more moderately during that
period (from about 6 percent in 1996 to 10.6 percent in August 1999), arrears facing
housing finance institutions (CAVs) more than tripled. The cooperatives system and
finance and leasing companies also experienced severe problems, with arrears now
approaching alarming levels in the 15-20 percent range.
Table 2: Financial Institutions current portfolio, arrears, and provisions
Loans in arrears as a    Provisions as
% of total portfolio    % of Arrears
Portfolio 8131199  as %
USS million eqv.* of total Sep-96  Sep-97  Sep-98  Aug-99   Aug-99
Total consolidated credit institutions  26230.3   100.00  7.0    7.3   9.1    13.4     29.0
Banks (without Caja Agraria)            15455.5    58.92   6.0   S.8   7.3   10.6    40.2
Corporaciones Financieras               2881.2    10.98   5.3   4.5   5.4   8.0       45.5
Savings and Loans-CAVs (without BCH)    4881.3    18.61   5.1   7.9   10.3   19.0     11.2
Trade Finance and Leasing Companies     932.1     3.55   142   12.2   13.8   19.9    25.7
State Banks
Caja Agraria                           394.0      1.50                       16.2     6.3
BCH                                    1117.2    4.26          13.7   18.7   39.8    21.0
Mortgage loans transferrred to FOGAFIN and BR  569.0  2.17                    4.7     24.9
Other Financial Institutions
Financial Cooperatives (excl. Cooperative Banks)  31.8   8.5   6.4   10.9   15.0    29.0
Second-tier Institutions               4183.1            0.1    0.1    0.1   1.0      43.1
* US$1= 1,994 pesos
17.    Institution specific information, where available, indicates that actual amounts of
loan portfolio experiencing problems could be even higher if strict loan classification
procedures are applied. Since June 1998, the Government has had to intervene and
"officialize" (i.e., take ownership of) two medium size private credit institutions (a
to a sustained decline in private savings in the 1990s; and (v) tighter monetary policy.



- 8 -
savings & loan institution and a cooperative) in addition to a number of smaller CFCs
and financial cooperatives, spurring speculation about additional institutions that may
find themselves in trouble. The total borrowings from credit institutions from the central
bank (BR) have also been showing a clear upward trend. Scenario analysis applying
stricter provisioning methodologies and more realistic assumptions on payment capacity
of borrowers shows potential for further worsening of this trend, unless quick remedial
actions are taken. However, the situation has not yet deteriorated to a point that
characterizes a high risk of a systemic crisis. Timely corrective actions would be crucial
to minimize such risk.
C. Housing finance institutions
18.   The housing finance sector has been particularly hard hit by the financial market
volatilities and high real interest rates, given the large mismatch between the average
maturities of their deposits (about 3 months) and loans (10-15 years). Their portfolio
problems are further exacerbated by the specific indexing method used for most housing
loans which provided for automatic capitalization of a substantial portion of the interest,
typically covering all the inflation component as well as part of the real interest payment
due. The root cause behind this was that the indexing method for housing finance
instruments (called the UPAC) was gradually shifted by the authorities from its original
direct linkage to the consumer price index to market interest rate indices. This was done
in an effort to keep the UPAC-linked deposit rates competitive and enable CAVs to
maintain their deposit base in tlle face of steeply rising real interest rates in the market.
However, this practice masked the real cost of loan funds, with a tendency for the real
balances of loans to actually grow, while the underlying market value of the housing
assets falls due to high real interest rates and slow economic activity. As the value of
collateral dipped below that of the loans, debtors were induced to cede the collateral to
the bank rather than repaying the loan. This contributed to an increasing share of
unproductive assets in banks' portfolios, thereby increasing the need for provisions and
severely eroding their profitability.
D. State-owned and "officialized" banks
19.   Despite the declared policy of limiting state participation in economic activity and
the downsizing of the 1 990s in public sector participation in the financial system that can
be handled by the private sector, for historical reasons, the Colombian financial system
has a still sizable state-owned sector, which accounts for nearly a fifth of the total
deposits as well as total assets of the first-tier banks in the system. Of these, the most
important first-tier banks directly owned by the state included the Caja Agraria, Banco
del Estado and Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH). The Caja Agraria, the largest and
most delicate case among these, had been operating over the last several decades as an
agricultural credit institution devoted to meet the credit needs of farmers as well as
certain social and regional development objectives. In recent years, the role played by
the Caja in providing financial services in regions where there is significant guerilla and
paramilitary activity became a critical symbol of the limited formal government presence.
Of the other two, Banco del Estado, taken over in an earlier episode of intervention,
operates as a state-owned commercial bank; it is involved in a specific problem related to
a large legal claim by one of its prior clients, which had complicated most prior efforts to



- 9 -
privatize it. BCH is a commercial bank specialized in mortgage lending, which got into
problems as a result of some bad and questionable business decisions (including the take-
over of another problematic CAV), and the difficult market in housing finance. A fourth
institution, Banco Cafetero, which is not owned by the state but by the National Coffee
Fund (a specialized fund originally established to promote stabilization of coffee related
revenues which derives its resources from private coffee growers), is also facing major
portfolio problems originating from the economic fragility of the coffee sector,
compounded by recent earthquake related losses in the coffee growing region.
20.   A similar situation prevails in two banking institutions which experienced
solvency problems and went through a special form of official intervention (in
combination with government capitalization) called "officialization". These include:
Granahorrar, a previously successful savings and loan association whose problems
worsened because of certain special problems among its shareholders and the resulting
poor business decisions; and Banco Uconal, which was originally a financial cooperative
but was converted into a bank with a view to facilitate its resolution. Following a full
write-down of the previous owners' claims, FOGAFIN became the formal owner of these
two institutions during 1998/99. The privatization or other resolution of these institutions
also needs to be pursued together with that of state-owned banks. The Government also
owns a specialized development finance corporation, Instituto de Fomento Industrial
(IFI), which in earlier times was used as a first-tier institution to promote certain strategic
lines of industrial development, but in recent years has shifted its focus to second-tier
banking activities operating through other banks for objectives such as small and medium
enterprise (SME) development. Due to its special charter and hybrid/second-tier status,
IFI will be treated separately under the reform program, together with other second-tier
institutions.
21.   Overall, the situation of public and intervened financial institutions as a group is
far worse than the private banking segments. Most of them are deeply decapitalized or
outright insolvent, with much higher loan delinquency ratios and lower liquidity levels.
Each of these institutions is facing problems stemming from low efficiency, bureaucratic
systems and political interference in credit decisions, and would need to be privatized, or
if necessary, restructured, recapitalized, or liquidated to achieve a more competitive and
healthy banking system.
E. The Cooperatives Sector
22.   A specific area that has already demanded immediate attention on the part of the
Administration is the cooperatives sector. The cooperatives also experienced
substantially more severe difficulties than private banks, due to the acute deterioration of
consumer loans, deficiencies in their supervision and difficulties in loan collection.
There are more than 3,000 cooperatives in Colombia, distributed among three main
categories. More than two,thousand are small, "closed" cooperatives which are allowed
by their statutes to lend only to members. There are also about a thousand "multi-
sectoral" cooperatives which represent small groupings of people engaged in similar
trades who organize themselves as a cooperative, but are not really functioning as a
financial intermediary. As of mid-1998, there were 52 "financial cooperatives", which
are typically larger in size, and accept deposits from members as well as non-members,



- 10-
competing with regular credit institutions. A major weakness was a lack of clarity
regarding the prudential rules governing operations of the cooperatives, institutional
responsibility for supervising them and mechanisms for deposit insurance resolution of
solvency problems among cooperatives. One result of this weakness was that several
financial cooperatives fell into financial solvency problems and had to be intervened; a
number of the smaller "closed" cooperatives also faced serious problems and the integrity
of their deposits was threatened. Given that the total membership of cooperatives is
estimated at as high as 2 million small depositors (with average deposits typically in the
range of US$200-400 equivalent), any major failures can lead to a potentially large social
problem. Cognizant of this and the need to clarify and improve supervision of
cooperatives system, the Government has initiated action to restructure the cooperatives
system and put them on a more sustainable financial basis, clearer prudential rules and
supervision system, in consultation with the Bank and IDB. Among other things, the
Government has recently put in place legislation to create a specialized supervisory
agency to oversee the operations of the smaller "closed" cooperatives, while maintaining
the responsibility to supervise the "financial" cooperatives with the Superintendency of
Banks. It also established a new, separate deposit insurance and resolution agency,
FOGACOOP, to address the needs of cooperatives, fulfilling functions similar to those of
FOGAFIN for banking institutions.
F. Institutional strengthening of Banking Superintendency and FOGAFIN.
23.   Despite the improvements achieved in the institutional capacity and quality of
bank monitoring and supervision in recent years, there is still a need for substantial
further strengthening, in light of the deteriorating financial condition of the system and
acute problems faced in some segments such as housing finance and the cooperatives
sector. Energetic action and high quality judgments by the Superintendency of Banks
will be needed to enforce proper loan classification and adequate provisioning on
financial intermediaries, given the erosion of portfolio quality that most institutions have
witnessed over the last two years. The quality of information available to the
Superintendency as well as technical capacity of its supervisors need to be enhanced in
meeting the challenges of the new reality. Likewise, while FOGAFIN has formally
operated satisfactorily as a deposit insurance and problem bank resolution entity, its
capacity has not been tested since there have been very few bank failures in prior years.
Given the vastly more formidable challenges which FOGAFIN will be facing in the area
of bank resolution, and the various new responsibilities which have been added to it
under recent emergency relief measures (see below), a rapid building of FOGAFIN's
institutional capacity is of a high order of priority. In particular, it would be critical for
FOGAFIN to develop its capacity to design and apply modern resolution techniques for
problem banks that make a fuller use of market based instruments and facilitate quicker
and more economically efficient resolution. These institution building measures will be
key to overcoming the current fragilities of the banking system and enabling its healthy
longer term development.
G. Other key segments of the financial sector
24.   An important area of improvement for the medium-term concerns the operation of
several second-tier financial institutions (institutions which rediscount loans to first-tier



- 11 -
banks) which cater to the needs of specific productive or service sectors: BANCOLDEX
(Colombia's EX-IM Bank) which caters financial services to exporters and importers;
FINDETER, a specialized entity which rediscounts bank loans to municipalities to help
finance urban development and decentralized public utilities; IFI, the Government's
industrial development bank which also provides second-tier lending to micro- and small
and medium size enterprises; FEN, an agency specializing in channeling credits and
guarantees to the power sector; and FINAGRO, a second-tier agency to rediscount
agriculture loans. Although each of these agencies has been fulfilling a useful function to
bridge gaps in the financial system, some of them have outlived their original mandates.
There are considerable efficiency gains that can be achieved through consolidating and
rationalizing the operations of these second-tier credit agencies, and ensuring consistent
procedures across them. The Government stated its intention to review options in this
area, as part of its medium term strategy. As a first step towards this, the Government
recently issued a decree officially consolidating a number of these second-tier entities,
together with IFI discussed above, into one.
25.   Colombia's capital markets are relatively underdeveloped, reflecting the effects
of a prolonged period of inflation and interest rate volatility, country security concerns
and information deficiencies. However, there are no major policy distortions impeding
capital market development. Based on joint work carried out by a Bank sector mission
and a capital markets commission during the last Administration, the Government has
embarked on a program of long term institution and capacity building. The program
contemplates strengthening regulation and supervision capacity of relevant supervisory
bodies (including the Superintendencies of Securities and Banking), harmonizing
regulations and enforcement across agencies, upgrading of pricing, trading, custody,
settlement and payments systems, promotion of interconnection across exchanges,
developing deeper primary and secondary markets for public securities and greater
participation of institutional investors in securities markets, and developing appropriate
norms and promoting the effective use of derivatives, securitization and other modem
financial instruments (e.g., standardized mortgage securities) as well as credit rating
companies, improvements in debt and risk management methods, and control of
fraudulent and corrupt practices. The Bank is actively supporting this program through
the ongoing Financial Markets Development Project. In the longer run, Colombia also
needs to take explicit steps to strengthen its corporate governance through additional
steps to protect shareholders' rights, equitable treatment of all shareholders (including
minority shareholders), timely and accurate disclosure and transparency of company
performance data, and on the basis of the latter, development of a more systematic
monitoring of corporate financial health and vulnerability data.
26.   Colombia undertook a major reform of its social security and pension system
through a comprehensive law adopted in December 1993, to overcome the problems
associated with its previous pay-as-you-go system which was becoming increasingly
underfunded. The reform introduced a competitive system of private pension managers
similar to that of the Chilean private pension funds management (AFPs) system, as an
alternative to the public system. However, unlike the Chilean system, Colombia allowed
its citizens the option of continuing in the existing scheme or moving to the new scheme,
with no strong incentives to move to the new system and freedom to switch between
them every three years. As part of the reform, Colombia scaled down the liberal benefits



- 12 -
and eligibility conditions under its public pensions systems, and increased the
contribution rates to equal those under the private system. Overall, the Colombian AFPs
system is quite modern, with regulations that allow foreign investment of assets from the
beginning and a modem benchmarking system. Implementation of the reforms has,
however, been slow as a result of the complex financial planning required by the
provision to allow back-and-forth switching between public and private systems,
multiplicity of public pension systems and problems in timely issuance of recognition
bonds from the decentralized levels of government. With support from the IDB, the
Government is taking actions to reduce the disparities among the multiple public pension
systems and address the problems related to the implementation of reformns in
decentralized entities. Capital markets improvements facilitated by the reforms in the
financial sector should assist the AFPs by broadening the range of investment instruments
available to them.
III. THE PROPOSED FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM PROGRAM
27.   In addition to laying out a proposed new macro-economic framework for the
coming years described in Section I (paras. 11-12), the Government has embarked on a
series of specific measures to address the immediate problems identified in specific
segments of the financial sector, as well as major structural reforms oriented to assuring
efficiency, competitiveness and prudent risk i1ianagement in the banking sector and the
longer term health of the financial system. The Government is seeking support from the
Bank for this comprehensive reiform program through the proposed Loan. The IDB is
expected to provide complementary support through a parallel loan.
28.   The main objectives of the Program are: (i) to support required changes in
financial sector legislation and regulations to facilitate strengthening of bank supervision
and deposit insurance and promote timely, fair and efficient resolution of banks r.acing
financial solvency problems; (ii) institutional strengthening of the bank supervision
agency and FOGAFIN, the entity responsible for deposit insurance and bank resolution;
(iii) restructuring recapitalization, privatization and, if necessary, liquidation of state
owned and "officialized" banks currently under public sector management; (iv) help
effective implementation of special, one-time measures to address the immediate impact
on the financial system stemming from macro-economic, intemational market and related
problems.
A. Special one-time relief and recapitalization programs
29.   (i) Economic emergency relief. Recognizing the seriousness of the issues facing
some parts of the financial sector, the Government introduced, through an emergency
executive decree dated November 25, 1998, a series of relief measures designed to help
the most vulnerable groups affected by the crisis -- namely low income mortgage
borrowers and depositors in the cooperatives system. In the case of housing loans, the
relief measures included: refinancing at preferential interest rates (with up to 10 year
terms) to homeowners who have maintained a good payment record but whose
outstanding balance on indexed housing loans went up more than 20 percent in nominal
terms over the course of the last year, for amounts not exceeding the 20 percent;



- 13 -
refinancing for housing borrowers who have arrears of three months or less, also on
preferential but somewhat different terms; and mortgage payment relief for low income
homeowners that lost their jobs. In the case of the cooperative institutions facing
liquidation or other severe payment problems and not covered by FOGACOOP (the
newly created deposit insurance entity for cooperatives), the decree provided for
reimbursement of up to about US$350 equivalent of their deposits for the lowest income
depositors (defined as those with incomes not exceeding twice the minimum salary);
these amounts would be treated as credits to the respective cooperative institutions while
their resolution is still in process. The decree also provided for an additional measure
designed to strengthen institutional infrastructure to resolve problems associated with
problem mortgage loans, through support to the establishment of specialized asset
management and disposal/leasing companies, which can purchase real assets pledged and
foreclosed (or accepted) under problem mortgage loans in lieu of the corresponding debt
service, manage and dispose of such assets through quick and efficient sale. As an
additional impetus for efficient resolution, FOGAFIN has been given faculties to provide
financing to such asset management/leasing companies as well as for asset securitization
companies whose formation had earlier been authorized. These relief and facilitating
measures are being financed primarily through a temporary 0.2 percent financial
transactions tax, effective through December 31, 1999, for most transactions except inter-
bank market dealings.
30.   The relief measures have been well thought through, and carefully circumscribed
in terms of the total amounts of relief, target population and eligibility requirements.
They are aimed at facilitating future structural reform in the financial system by
addressing the problems of some of the most critically affected groups and reducing
market distortions induced by distress borrowing by non-viable borrowers and
institutions. Whether the relief provided to the most vulnerable groups is sufficient or not
will depend, to a considerable extent, on the success of the Government in enhancing
market confidence and bringing down the real interest rates in the economy, which in
turn will be governed by the success of the macro-economic program and the adequacy of
reforms of the financial system. The relief measures have since become subject to certain
limitations and clarifications of the decree issued by the Constitutional Court of
Colombia, but the main thrust of the measures has been kept intact.
31.   (ii) Earthquake relief. Colombia has had to deal with yet another major
emergency in early 1999, stemming from a major earthquake that hit the western coffee
growing region of the country in January. The epicenter was near Armenia, a major city
in the coffee growing region, but the quake also devastated the urban and rural
infrastructure in many towns and villages across four Colombian provinces, thousands
killed and wounded, and over 150,000 people rendered homeless. Roads, water systems
and other public infrastructure services, as well as schools and hospitals incurred
substantial damage. The Government has issued emergency decrees to guide the relief
and reconstruction measures. The required resources for reconstruction, estimated to be
of the order of US$1.0 billion, are being channeled and administered through a special
Coffee Region Reconstruction Fund (FOREC). Among the emergency measures are
direct lump-sum subsidies to affected families, and credit on preferential terms and
limited credit risk underwriting offered to residents whose homes have been destroyed or
need major repairs. The amount of subsidy varies depending on the income class of the



- 14-
affected families. The Government has designated FOGAFIN as the entity that would
channel these subsidies, using resources to be provided by FOREC.4
32.   (iii) Recapitalization plan from financial institutions. In May 1999, taking into
account the increasingly acute portfolio problems and consequent erosion of capital that
became evident by mid- 1999 in other segments of the system, the Government
announced special support to facilitate recapitalization of institutions deemed to be viable
but experiencing temporary capital inadequacy. The support is provided in the formn of
medium tern loans from FOGAFIN to owners of those institutions that fully adjust their
assets and capital to reflect the true economic value of their assets, following stringent
standards that require writing off most non-productive assets (100 percent of non-
performing portfolio, 50 percent of deferred assets and 20 percent of accounts
receivable). The loans would be subject to strict collateral requirements, and would be
available only to those institutions that decide to adopt this course by the end of 1999 and
have submitted a satisfactory plan to restore financial viability in the medium term. This
"general purpose" recapitalization plan provides for credit lines from FOGAFIN to
eligible institutions not to exceed 80 percent of the funds needed to bring the capital of
the institution to a fully adequate solvency ratio (10 percent), to be repaid in 3 through 7
years at market related interest rates (DTF plus 2-3 percent depending on maturity). The
remaining 20 percent has to be provided by the shareholders. The financing loan has to
be guaranteed with the shareholder's stake in the institution and additional collateral so
that at least 133 percent of the loan in covered. These lines of credit are funded with
bonds issued by FOGAFIN and consequently do not imply cash disbursements for the
Government. FOGAFIN and the Superintendencia Bancaria will closely monitor and
supervise the implementation of the agreed programs, as reflected explicit performance
agreements (convenios de desempeho) signed by the respective recapitalized financial
institutions.
33.   The recapitalization program as designed has a number of attractive features. It is
simple, transparent, universal, and open to any fit-and-proper investor, which will limit
the risk of accusations of shady deals and favoritism. In addition, its emphasis on straight
recapitalization instead of asset purchases will increase the effectiveness of the resources
invested in it. FOGAFIN's practice of using comprehensive audits jointly conducted by
international consultants and staff of the Superintendency of Banks as a condition for
accessing its recapitalization funding is very appropriate. The plan would, however, need
to be implemented taking care to avoid abuses and any perverse incentives, with close
monitoring of the performance agreements with recipients.
B. Structural Reforms in the Financial Sector
34.   The Govermnent recognizes the critical importance of avoiding any further
instability in the financial system and laying the basis for a healthy and efficient
development of the financial system as an essential ingredient for sustainable growth.
Accordingly, it is giving high priority to putting into effect measures to: (i) enhance
competition and efficiency in the financial system, by putting in place appropriate
4     The Bank is supporting the reconstruction effort by redirecting the balances of ongoing projects
and processing a proposed new loan to help earthquake recovery.



- 15 -
prudential rules, effective supervision and efficient failure resolution mechanisms;
(ii) building the capacity of key supervisory and resolution institutions, including
development of asset management and liquidation companies; (iii) reforning, privatizing
or, if necessary, closing some state-owned banks and reforming the second-tier
institutions; and (iv) reforming the cooperatives system.
35.   In order to avoid a repetition of the problems witnessed in the financial sector,
and to set the basis for a healthy development of the Colombian banking system in the
future, the Government has also prepared and obtained Congressional approval of a
major reform of the Framework Law (Estatuto Organico) of the Financial System
through Law 510 of 1999. Reforms put in place under this amending law, which became
effective in August 1999, include far reaching structural, regulatory and supervisory
reforms for the sector. These include measures to: (i) liberalize the types of operations
which different categories of financial institutions in Colombia can engage in, thereby
increasing competition in the sector and virtually eliminating any remaining "regulatory
arbitrage" among financial institutions; (ii) define the roles of the Superintendency of
Banks and FOGAFIN, including their responsibility to assure timely detection, corrective
action, and resolution of banks facing liquidity and/or solvency problems, and provide for
stronger enforcement of consolidated financial reporting of financial groups and off-shore
transactions; and (iii) authorize a wide range of modem bank resolution methods which
FOGAFIN can use in order to achieve efficient and timely resolution of problems, akin to
the authority exercised by the FDIC in the Unites States. The Reform Law also envisages
welcome improvements in the disclosure requirements and regulations governing
participants in the Colombian capital markets. Important improvements continue to be
made in building the institutional capacity of the Superintendency of Banks through
focused training programs.
36.   Among the specific provisions of the new legislation are: (i) an increase in the
minimum capital of financial institutions; (ii) the strengthening of procedures for the
timely detection of troubled institutions and the introduction of automatic "prompt
corrective actions" by the Superintendency; (iii) the introduction of time limits to
different procedures undertaken by the Superintendency such as: the decision on whether
to liquidate or close an institution (two months); the intervention without liquidation (one
year); and the liquidation of an institution (four years); (iv) the tightening of clauses
under which a financial institution may be intervened (including when severe accounting
data inconsistencies are encountered, the capital adequacy ratio falls below 40 percent of
its minimum required level, or recapitalization proposals are nor presented or approved
within the established deadlines); and (v) new powers to FOGAFIN to expedite mergers
and acquisitions, purchase assets from and make loans to financial institutions, and
promote securitization.
37.   The Government has also agreed with the Bank on a set of principles that will
govern the detailed implementation of this legislation and regulations related to
corrective and resolution actions in the financial sector. Among other things, these
principles provide for: (i) clear criteria and conditions under which a ladder of
increasingly strict corrective actions by the Superintendency would be triggered as
severity of problems detected increases; as far as possible, automatic triggering of certain
minimum actions would be provided for each type of condition, in order to assure



- 16-
equitable application of rules and avoid possibility of ad hoc regulatory forbearance
while also preventing charges of prejudicial treatment; (ii) likewise, clear criteria when
bank intervention (toma de posesion) would be triggered; (iii) ensuring that any
assistance provided by FOGAFIN would be in the context of satisfactory restructuring
plans, covering required changes in ownership, management and administration; all
restructuring plans would honor agreed specific principles of burden-sharing between
shareholders, creditors, depositors, and the deposit insurance agency, e.g., that existing
shareholders bear their full share of losses incurred, and that the assets and their capital
be written down as precondition to FOGAFIN financing; (iv) minimizing the conditions
under which such intervention will lead to the Government taking over the ownership or
operation of a bank, while allowing for exceptional treatment in cases where there is a
significant risk of contagion or payments system disruption or where public interest is
served by avoiding systemic risk; (v) keep any instances of "oficializacion" (a form of
open bank assistance) to a minimum and reserved only for exceptional circumstances as
described above; in all cases, oficializacion will involve a full write-down of existing
shareholders' capital against identified losses or provisioning requirements - before
providing any recapitalization assistance; and (vi) as a normn, application of market based
resolution techniques for sale of assets and transfer of liabilities of problem banks with a
view to minimize the economic cost of resolution and optimize these transactions
wherever possible by integrating them with fulfillment of FOGAFIN's deposit insurance
obligations. Annex 3 provides the English translation of the principles adopted by the
authorities in order to ensure prompt corrective actions and optimal resolution.
38.   As a complementary measure designed to increase liquidity in the system and
reduce cost of interrnediation, BR has also taken strong actions to further decrease the
legal reserve requirements of banks and credit institutions, and has maintained since
January 1999 a low average reserve requirement levels of about 5.5 percent. This,
together with the partial remuneration of such reserves, breaks a long tradition of high
implicit taxation of the Colombian financial system, and should help bring down spreads
between borrowing and lending rates. Under the current stage of development of BR's
liquidity management capacity, and to avoid undermining the soundness of the payments
system, it is not advisable to lower reserve requirements further. BR has also increased
the amount of "repo" transactions and eased access to the last resort lending facility in
order to provide liquid resources to those institutions that have suffered deposit
withdrawals, subject to well specified criteria and strict limits.
39.   An area that requires close attention is the institutional strengthening of the two
main agencies involved in the oversight and resolution of banks -- the Superintendency of
Banks and FOGAFIN. The Government agreed to put in place a comprehensive
institutional strengthening plan for both agencies, including organizational
improvements, analytical and technical training through assisted inspections, in-house
workshops and study visits to other countries, and recruitment of additional staff as
needed. The strengthening plan for the Superintendency of Banks includes specific
measures to: (i) significantly strengthen on-site inspection, including where necessary
advisory assistance from external on-site supervision experts, a greater focus on control
processes of the financial institutions in areas such as the lending process, monitoring of
compliance of borrowers with agreed covenants, and internal audit; (ii) further enhance
off-site analysis capabilities, through ensuring timely availability of standard data and



- 17-
putting in place a new integrated risk management system that takes into account credit,
market, environmental and management risks, and provides an improved early warning
system; (iii) improve and standardize methodologies to apply rigorous loan classification
and provisioning requirements - e.g., to determine appropriate loan classification, taking
into account borrower's real ability to pay rather than collaterals offered or past record
per se; (iv) standardize and reorganize itself to strengthen the practice of consolidated
supervision of financial conglomerates (gruposfinancieros) and tracking off-shore
operations; (v) adopt clear principles of preventive and prompt corrective actions,
including a graduated set of corrective actions linked to certain automatic triggers as
provided under the new law; and (vi) implement a comprehensive staff training and
development program to increase and broaden their technical capacities.
40.   The institutional strengthening plan for FOGAFIN includes specific measures
to: (i) improve its organizational structure, with a clear strategy to identify areas in which
it needs to hire external expertise and those in which internal staff capacity needs to be
developed; (ii) protect its core functions of deposit insurance and bank resolution from
becoming adversely affected by the administrative burden imposed by other functions
such as those under the economic and earthquake emergency decrees; (iii) clearly
delineate among the different types of activity that FOGAFIN engages in (e.g., between
their normal and special or "emergency" functions, and between the different categories
of institutions they serve), with safeguards to assure that the reserves managed for each
type of activity are fully protected from activities in other spheres; (iv) improve the
technical capacity of its staff to design and apply modern, market-based instruments,
market based sales of assets or transfer of liabilities, mergers, disposition of repossessed
real assets, creation of "bridge banks" or "good bank/bad bank" structures, and
integrating execution of these with fulfilling its deposit insurance liabilities to achieve
timely and least cost resolution of bank problems; and (v) implement a comprehensive
program of staff training and development to help achieve these objectives.
41.   The Government has also put into effect an action plan to achieve resolution
and/or privatization of the main state-owned and "officialized" banks (Caja Agraria,
Banco del Estado, Banco de Credito Hipotecario, and the erstwhile assets of Banco
Uconal which have been formally consolidated into the new Banco del Estado), as well
as Banco Cafetero which is owned by the National Coffee Fund. A considerable amount
of groundwork has been prepared to support the Government's decisions in this area,
including some with Bank/IDB support. Downsizing, comprehensive reform and/or
privatization of these institutions present sensitive social and political problems, given the
critical social and financial intermediation functions they had been fulfilling.
42.   In the case of the Caja Agraria, which presents the most sensitive issues in this
connection, the Government has already taken action to dissolve the institution and
dismiss all its employees, through a special decree issued in June 1999 (Decree No.
1065). In its place, the Government created a substantially downsized new institution,
Banco Agraria, by closing most branches of the Caja in locations where there are private
financial institutions available, and closing or consolidating other branches where
justified, after taking into account the payments and other basic service needs of these
areas. In total, more than 200 (out of about 800) branches of the old Caja have been
closed and further consolidation may occur in the future. The non-perforrning part of the



- 18-
Caja has been separated and will be liquidated according to agreed procedures. The new
Banco Agraria will be a much leaner institution and will operate under clearly laid out
banking principles, with a clear focus on serving smaller farmers, and separating out the
channeling of any subsidies for social development purposes which would be funded
directly from government budget resources. Banco Agraria will concentrate its activities
in areas currently not served by other financial intermnediaries, and will be subject to strict
limits on the size of the loans and the total amount of credit exposure it can assume.
43.   In the case of the other five major state-owned and "officialized" banks,5 the
Government strategy is to privatize them within the next eighteen months, or if this does
not prove feasible, initiate liquidation of these institutions in a manner that does not result
in any net additional fiscal cost to the Government and maximizes the value of assets
recovery. In preparation for the privatization effort, the Government has issued decrees
to consolidate these institutions into three "packages", which offer greater synergies and
help overcome certain legal obstacles that have until now hindered the sale of the banks
to prospective buyers. FOGAFIN will act as the Government's agent to undertake the
privatization of these institutions and to manage them tightly during the transition. For
the first package, comprising Granahorrar and Banco de Credito Hipotecario (BCH),
FOGAFIN has already contracted an investment bank (Goldman Sachs) to prepare and
execute the process to bring them to the point of sale by June 30, 2000. For the other two
packages comprising Banco Cafetero, and the result of the Banco del Estado-Banco
Uconal merger, FOGAFIN expects to hire qualified investment banks within the next six
months and bring them to the point of sale by about the end of 2000. To minimize the
fiscal and economic costs associated with continued operation of the state-owned banks
during the transition period, individual transition plans have been formulated for each of
the state-owned banks, which encompass strict limits imposed on them by the
Superintendencia Bancaria and/or FOGAFIN on the use of deposits and loan recoveries
for making fresh loans, as well as other restructuring actions to help improve their
financial health and solvency ratios in preparation for privatization. Any continuing
support to state-owned institutions (e.g., to pursue certain high priority social goals)
would come entirely from the Government's budget or specially mobilized resources
(e.g., those raised through the emergency provisions) in a transparent manner, without
causing any further financial burden to FOGAFIN. The attachments to the Government's
Development Policy Letter clearly lay out the background, privatization strategies and the
transition plans for these institutions.
44.   As a second phase of the reform of public financial institutions, the Governnent
also intends to review the options for rationalizing and improving the efficiency of its
main second-tier institutions, including IFI. Completion of this review will be a second
tranche condition of the proposed loan.
45.   With regard to the cooperatives, the Government's strategy is to first address the
"stock" problems (institutions and portfolios already identified as having problems), and
encourage all cooperatives to more clearly delineate their roles either as "closed" credit
unions accepting deposits only from members, or as nearly full fledged credit institutions
5 Or possibly only four formal entities, taking into account the recent Government ordered formal
fusion of Banco de Estado and Banco Uconal, which has, however, been questioned by the
Constitutional Court and may have to be reversed.



- 19 -
open to taking deposits from the public. This transition process will be implemented over
the next year or so. The Government has already initiated this restructuring process, and
has taken steps to clearly separate the treatment of the smaller credit unions which do not
accept deposits from the general public, from that of the "financial cooperatives" which
have faculties to accept such deposits and therefore need to be supervised on par with
other general or special purpose financial intermediaries. A separate supervisory and
deposit insurance system has been created under Law 454 of 1998 to attend to the former
group (credit unions). The Superintendency of Banks has already launched a
comprehensive process of assessing the financial condition and solvency of all financial
cooperatives, with a view to verify that the new institutions fully comply with applicable
prudential and other regulations, and, in case of the contrary, take steps either to
implement a viable plan to reach solvency, or to close them or achieve other resolution of
these institutions. So far, based on a first-round review of the 52 financial cooperatives
that were operating in 1998 has been completed. Of these, 20-22 are deemed to be
capable of potentially qualifying for operation as financial cooperatives under the new
rules. The others are likely to liquidate themselves voluntarily, become absorbed in other
institutions, convert themselves into "closed" cooperatives (credit unions), or be
liquidated under Superintendency orders (some are already under liquidation). On-site
inspections and full reviews of all these institutions are to be completed by the
Superintendency of Banks by the end of year 2000, and final disposition of these
institutions achieved. The full program to accomplish this is detailed the relevant
achievement to the Development Policy Letter.
46.   The Bank team also sought understandings with the Governnent that future
housing finance through the CAVs (savings and loan associations) and other financial
institutions will be made in a way that make the full cost of such loans fully transparent,
and under all circumstances avoid any automatic capitalization of interest beyond the
portion accounted for by inflation This will enable future housing finance contracts to be
made in the full knowledge of the real costs of the financing and its affordability in
relation to the borrowers' income levels. Operationalization of measures to reform the
housing finance system along these lines will be a condition for release of the second
tranche of the proposed loan. Related to this, a recent Constitutional Court ruling
questioned the validity of the shifts in the definition of the UPAC index that were put into
effect in past years (since 1988 - see para. 18) and asked for retroactive reduction in loan
balances to be provided to housing finance recipients. The ruling may accelerate the
need for the Government to propose a new housing finance system that meets the criteria
mentioned above. The need for retroactive correction of the existing system, however,
impose additional fiscal demands, which would need to be accommodated within a
satisfactory macroeconomic program. The Government has already started looking at
options to meet these requirements, and is expected to propose a new housing finance law
for that purpose.
47.   As longer term measures, it would also be important for Colombia to: (i) help
mobilization of longer term deposits instruments for the housing finance market, in order
to avoid the excessive term transformation that characterizes almost all the housing
finance institutions in Colombia; (ii) review existing civil and commercial code and
propose modifications to address the problem of extremely cumbersome and time-
consuming processes involved in repossession of collaterals and creditors under



- 20 -
Colombia's existing judicial processes; and (iii) promote standardization of mortgage
instruments and operation of securitization companies, which can help provide liquidity
and depth to housing finance markets. These measures will also be supported by the
ongoing Financial Markets Development Loan and a proposed operation for judicial
reform, as well as under a new housing finance law which the Administration proposes to
pursue.
IV. BANK GROUP STRATEGY
48.   The last full Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Colombia was discussed by
the Board on November 6, 1997. The accompanying report entitled "Colombia: Country
Assistance Strategy - Progress Report" (Report No. 17107-CO dated October 20, 1999)
provides a full review of the strategy and the progress achieved so far.
49.   The CAS, following a participatory process that included open dialogue and
effective consultations with Government leaders and civil society, identified the main
objectives of poverty reduction, social development, and sustainable growth. These
objectives were to be achieved by interventions in six strategic areas: (i) promoting
peace and development; (ii) promoting rural development; (iii) developing human capital;
(iv) attaining public sector responsiveness and efficiency; (v) improving infrastructure
services; and, (vi) ensuring sustainable development. These key priorities have not
changed and the basic objectives and the overall thrust of the existing CAS remain valid.
However, changes in the international environment, the deterioration of the financial
sector, greater emphasis on the peace process, a devastating earthquake, the
Government's commitment to impose fiscal discipline and to implement structural
reforms to be supported by a formal IMF program, and improved portfolio performance
warranted a reassessment of our lending program, in particular of the type and arnount of
lending. The progress report proposes moving to a high-case lending program that
includes two adjustment operations, including the proposed FSAL. This movement is
justified due to the need to cushion the adverse social impact of the unprecedented
economic recession, financial instability and internal conflict on the poor, the
Government's commitment to implement structural reforms to be supported by a fornal
IMF program and the need to support the developmental aspects of the peace process.
50.   The proposed FSAL would directly support a healthy and sustainable
development of the Colombian financial system which will be critical to achieving the
economic recovery, growth and financial services to vulnerable groups as called for
under the Government's overall economic program. The operation is therefore an
integral part of the updated country assistance strategy, and supports the CAS objective
of achieving sustainable growth.
51.  IFC's strategy and programs include active involvement in operations related to
financial markets, private participation in infrastructure and selective manufacturing and
service areas, all of which would benefit from reforms in the financial sector supported
by the proposed loan. In particular, IFC's recent investment in a development finance
company assisting small and medium enterprise development, a proposed investment
which it is considering to create a secondary mortgage facility for housing finance, and
advisory services to establishment of private equity funds will benefit from the financial



- 21 -
framework being supported by the proposed loan. The accompanying CAS Progress
Report provides full details of IFC and MIGA operations in Colombia.
V. THE PROPOSED LOAN AND CONDITIONALITY
52.   A Bank Loan of EUR 482.3 million including the capitalized front end fee to the
Republic of Colombia is proposed to support the Government's Program described in
Section III. It would be disbursed in two equal tranches. The loan will be a Fixed Spread
Loan, to be repaid in 17 years, including a five-year grace period. The policy matrix
attached in Annex 1 indicates the main areas of reform action to be supported under the
Loan and the corresponding conditionality. All special conditions for disbursement of
the first tranche have already been met, including: passage of the required legislative
reforms, agreeing on a plan and initiating measures for institutional strengthening of
FOGAFIN and the Superintendency of Banks, preparation of satisfactory restructuring
plans for the state-owned and officialized banks and initiating the process to bring them
to the point of sale, and putting into effect measures to reform the cooperatives system.
The second tranche would be released upon satisfactory implementation of the reforms,
with an agreed calendar and specific milestones, which would lay the foundation for a
medium term healthy development of the sector. Details of these conditions are spelled
out in the Policy Matrix in Annex 1. It is anticipated that the second tranche would be
released during 2001. The Program Objective Category is Economic Management.
A. Program Management and Loan Administration
53.   The Government of Colombia would be the Borrower of the proposed Loan. The
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit will be the principal executing agency and will
have the overall responsibility for coordinating and overseeing all aspects of the
program. The Superintendency of Banks and FOGAFIN will also have key roles in
executing the program and will work closely with the Ministry of Finance and Public
Credit and Banco de la Republica in executing program components under their
respective jurisdictions. The closing date of the Loan would be December 31, 2001.
B. Disbursement and Auditing Arrangements
54.   Disbursement arrangements will follow the simplified procedures for
SALs/SECALs approved by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an
account in Colombia's Central Bank (Banco de la Republica). Once the Bank formally
notifies the borrower that a tranche is available for withdrawal, the borrower may submit
a withdrawal application so that the proceeds of the tranche are deposited by the Bank in
this account to be used in accordance with the Loan Agreement. Although a routine audit
of the deposit account will not be required, the Bank reserves the right to conduct one.
C. Financing Plan
55.   The total cost of the above-described elements is estimated at over US$6 billion
equivalent, not including earthquake related financing relief. This includes the cost of
restructuring, dismantling and/or privatization of state-owned and officialized banks, the



- 22 -
associated worker severance payments and related obligations (US$4.3 billion);
recapitalization of private banks and reserves for resolution of other financial institutions
facing problems (US$1 billion); and payments for adversely affected home-owners and
small depositors of cooperatives (excluding earthquake related cooperatives),
establishment and initial deposit of FOGACOOP and assistance to asset management and
disposition (US$800 million). About three-quarters of these costs will be funded through
domestic resources mobilized through the temporary 0.2 percent financial transactions
cost, accumulated reserves from deposit insurance premiums, capital contributions from
shareholders and potential owvners, and expressly authorized general budget funds (e.g.,
to dismantle Caja Agraria and to establish FOGACOOP and cover the low income
depositors of cooperatives). Contributions from multilateral development banks will help
cover about US$1 billion equivalent of the remaining gap (about US$500 million
equivalent from the Bank, US$300 million from IDB, US$200 million from CAF);
resources under the expected EFF program from the IMF and other sources may have to
be used to cover the rest. Under the proposed loan, the Bank has received assurances that
additional resources equivalent to at least US$200 million will be transferred to
FOGAFIN to help address emerging bank resolution needs. Overall, the financing plan
seeks to minimize use of general budget revenues (other than funding expressly provided
by multilaterals) for the purpose of implementing financial sector reforms, and thus
minimize the fiscal impact on other sectors of the economy. In addition to its direct
participation through the proposed $300 million parallel financial sector operation, the
IDB has also provided two other fast disbursing loans to Colombia over the past 12
months: a US$350 million energy sector loan approved in December 1998, and a
US$550 million fiscal adjustment loan approved in February 1999. The IMF has
announced tentative plans for a EFF of up to US$2.7 billion.
D. Benefits and Risks
56.   The proposed loan would support the recovery and healthy long-term
development of the financial system with the minimum cost to the economy, which is
essential for the economic reactivation and achievement of the growth targets envisaged
under the macroeconomic program. The strategy supported by the program is to
minimize the chance of a systemic risk in the Colombian financial system through a
macro-economic program that enables stabilization and significant reductions in real
interest rates, combined with a timely and effective implementation of prudential rules
and supervision, preventive measures, and case-by-case resolution actions. The
Government's financing plan also seeks to minimize the burden placed by the program
on the general budget revenues, by following the principle that the costs of the reform
program should, as far as possible, be covered by revenues generated through the
financial system itself, including taxes, deposit insurance premiums and capital
contributions from participants/owners; external assistance from multilateral institutions
is sought to help smooth out the impact of the one-time up-front costs.
57.   An important risk affecting the transition of the financial system back to a healthy
state is the govemrnent's inability to reduce interest rates in the economy which would
directly impact on the capacity of borrowers to service their debt. The Government is
acutely aware of this, and is making best efforts to address the issue through the
implementation of a demanding fiscal program, comprehensive structural reforms, and



- 23 -
instilling confidence in international and domestic investors through a credible
stabilization plan and exchange rate management. A slippage in the implementation of
the Government's stated macroeconomic program, or a significant worsening of the
external environment through continued turbulence in international financial markets
could disrupt the achievement of the program goals. The downward movement of
interest rates in recent months, and the likelihood that Colombia will shortly reach a
funding agreement with the IMF for an Extended Fund Facility program, with specific
monitorable indicators for the macroeconomic program are positive factors moderating
this risk.
58.   The proposed program, with its emphasis on structural reforms in the financial
sector and efficient case-by-case resolution of credit institutions, helps minimize the risks
of a fully blown systemic crisis through appropriate incentives and builds greater
preparedness to tackle such an eventuality. A failure by the Government to put in place
in a timely manner the improvements in the institutional capacity and resolution process,
or significantly more acute problems discovered during the planned intensive banking
supervision, could elevate the potential for systemic risk. The clearly laid out program of
actions prior to the Board presentation and second tranche disbursement under the
proposed loan, including in particular the capacity building measures and well thought
out calendars of action under each reform area, are designed to minimize these risks.
Recently, the Constitutional Court of Colombia has questioned some of the provisions of
the housing finance system, and ordered certain changes to be put into effect, which may
lead to additional financial sector and/or fiscal costs. However, the Government is taking
swift remedial action to correct this and in fact accelerate putting into effect a workable
housing finance scheme as required under the second tranche conditions.
VI. RECOMMENDATION
59.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Washington, D.C.
October 20, 1999
Attachments






Annex 1: Matrix of Reform Actions
Area of Reform; Current Status & Key Issues                         Acion compeleted prior to Board Presentation                 Second Tranche Conditions
1. Ensuring a satisfactory macro-economic framework.
The Govemment has prepared a medium term macro-economic plan       Agreement on a satisfactory macro-economic framework and key    Maintenance of a satisfactory macro-
consistent with the goals of achieving stabilization, substantial reduction    targets; this agreement has been reflected in the Govemment's  economic framework, consistent with
in the fiscal deficit over the next three years to achieve near balance, and    Development Policy Letter.                     the Program described in the
significant reductions in inflation and real interest rates. Bank and IMF                                                       Development Policy Letter.
teams have reviewed the program, and find it realistic and worthy of
support. The IMF is expected to support the program through financing
under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF). A Letter of Intent is expected to
be finalized shortly between the Government and the IMF for this
purpose. An IDB Fiscal Adjustment Loan is supporting the
implementation of parts of the program. Bank/lMF/IDB teams are
following further macroeconomic developments on a continuous basis.
II. Strengthening the legal, regulatory, and institutional framework of the financial system and problem bank resolution
Existing legal and regulatory framework has served reasonably well in  A. Passage of an amended Financial Institutions Framework Law    A. (i) Adoption and application by the
the past, but needs to be reformed and strengthened to take account of    (Estatuto Organico), and putting in place satisfactory principles of  Banking Superintendency of
emerging problems and set the basis for healthy long term development   prevention and prompt correction in the oversight of financial  regulations and internal procedures
of the banking system. Among other things, the new legislative   intermediaries, and resolution in the case of institutions facing  (e.g., those related to prompt corrective
framework was needed to strengthen faculties for supervisory and  problems. The new legislative framework and principles will  actions, loan classification and
resolution agencies to put into effect strong prudential, capital adequacy    enable inter alia: (i) appropriate capital adequacy and prudential    provisioning rules) required to
and related rules, take strong preventative measures to anticipate and  rules, including rules on related party lending and portfolio  implement the provisions of the
avoid problems, and implement modern methods of bank failure      concentration and application of prudential rules on a consolidated   Framework Law and related principles;
resolution when solvency problems arise. Bank/IDB preparatory work in  basis for all affiliates of a financial group; (ii) establishment of a    (ii) adoption and application by
connection with the FSAL and a Joint Bank-IMF Financial Sector    system of progressively stringent prompt corrective actions for  FOGAFIN of bank resolution
Assessment, which has been completed for Colombia in October 1999,    banks facing increasing degrees of solvency problems; (iii) use of   techniques that fully comply with the
have provided additional suggestions for institutional and policy  market-based modem bank resolution devices such as mergers,  agreed principles to assure efficient
strengthening.                                                    sales of assets and/or liabilities, "good bank/bad bank" solutions,   and fair resolution; and (iii) rules put
and if appropriate, liquidation, in a way that facilitates equitable    into effect to ensure that the full cost in
and economically efficient resolution and integrates the deposit    real terms of future housing finance
insurance instrument more effectively into the financial resolution   loans is transparent, and that indexing
process; (iv) all FOGAFIN financing provided to credit      mechanisms are designed to ensure the
institutions (including any recapitalization assistance) to be  sustainable payment capacity of
explicitly conditioned on satisfactory application of agreed  borrowers.
restructuring, burden-sharing and resolution principles; (v) clear
separation of the functions and strict delineation of financial
accounts related to FOGAFIN's various insurance, resolution and
institution development activities.



Area of Reform, Current Status & Key Issues                          Action completed prior to Board Presentation                  Second Tranche Conditions
B. Adoption and initiation of a satisfactory institutional   B. Satisfactory implementation of the
strengthening plan to correct existing weaknesses in the Banking    institutional strengthening plan of the
Superintendency, covering: improvements in technical capacity,    Banking Superintendency, consistent
assessment of major risk areas and the banks' capacity to manage    with the calendar and milestones
them, strengthening supervision of financial groups on a     included in the plan.
consolidated basis, strengthening information systems to facilitate
timely diagnosis and monitoring, on-site and off-site inspections,
including inspections assisted by external experts as part of on-
the-job training, execution of a ladder of prompt corrective actions
depending on the degree of solvency problems encountered, and
comprehensive on-house and external training programs.
C. Preparation and initiation of a satisfactory institutional  C. Satisfactory implementation of
development plan for FOGAFIN, covering improvement of its    FOGAFIN's institutional strengthening
technical capacity to diagnose, analyze options and undertake  plan, consistent with the calendar and
resolution of banks facing difficulties, and required training to  milestones included in the plan.
ifulfill effectively the various functions of FOGAFIN.
111. Restructuring and Resolution of State-owned and "Officialized" Banks
The Bank (and IDB) has been in discussion with the Government on the   A. The Government has taken formal action to dissolve Caja  A Formal action to bring to point of
need to restructure, privatize and/or achieve resolution of the three state-   Agraria and release all its employees, replacing it with a much  sale (for privatization) or initiate
owned first tier banks (Caja Agraria, Banco Central Hipotecario, Banco   smaller and streamlined new institution to provide agricultural  liquidation of the other five banks
del Estado ) and development of appropriate options thereof. Likewise,    credit in underprivileged areas; the new institution, Banco  currently under official control.
the Government and FOGAFIN are studying options for the privatization   Agrario, will operate on sound commercial banking principles,
or other resolution of the two largest credit institutions which have been    with any remaining subsidies directly funded under the
intervened and are currently controlled by FOGAFIN - Granahorrar (a    Government's budget.
savings and loan association) and Banco Uconal (a cooperative bank).
Resolution options for Banco Cafetero, a private bank indirectly
controlled by the public sector through the National Coffee Fund whose    B. The Government has undertaken to hire, or undertake to hire  B. Satisfactory implementation of the
assets have been adversely affected by the recent earthquake in the  by June 2000, investment banks to pursue privatization of the  respective transition plans for each of
coffee zone are also being analyzed. The Government is also seeking to   other five state-owned and "officialized" banks. The current plan   these banks.
rationalize and improve operation of its second-tier financial institutions.  calls for bringing all five institutions to the point of sale by end of
year 2000; if the privatization attempt fails for any of these,
alternative resolution of the institution will be achieved within 12
months thereafter. Transition plans have been developed for each
of these institutions to limit their activities and minimize any
consequent fiscal burden prior to their privatization or resolution.
C. Completion of a study on options
to rationalize and increase the
efficiency of state-owned second-tier
institutions.



Area a/Reform, Current Status & Key Issues                           Action completed prior to Board Presentation                  Second Tranche Conditions
IV. Reform of the Cooperatives System
The Government has taken steps to define more clearly the distinctions    A. (i) Adoption by the Banking Superintendency of satisfactory  A. Continued satisfactory
among the three categories of cooperatives - "financial", savings (akin to  principles, strategy and action plan for licensing and supervision    implementation of the action plans and
credit unions) and multi-sectoral--, and to establish applicable prudential   of cooperatives consistent with the overall structure and vision of   the agreed resolution process for
rules and supervisory responsibilities for each category. A new   the Colombian financial system; (ii) Adoption by the Banking   financial cooperatives, which
specialized supervisory agency and a deposit insurance and resolution  Superintendency and initiation of an action plan for inspection,  contemplates final decision on their
agency were created to look after the latter two types of cooperatives  review, and if necessary, resolution of all existing financial  status and, if necessary, resolution
(also called "closed" cooperatives) which tend to be very small entities    cooperatives.                                        actions on existing financial
serving large numbers of low-income depositors. The Banking                                                                      cooperatives.
Superintendency will oversee the financial cooperatives which have
faculties similar to banks and other formal credit institutions. Rules and
incentives have been put in place to encourage the reclassification of
"financial" cooperatives into formal credit institutions or else as
"closed" credit unions. Several financial cooperatives facing difficulties
have been intervened and/or slated for liquidation.
V. Recent Special Programs being Implemented by FOGAFIN
In November, 1998, the Government took a number of emergency       A. Steps taken to ensure that FOGAFIN's institutional capacity  A. Continued compliance of the
measures to provide carefully circumscribed relief to the most vulnerable  does not become unduly stretched as a result of the added  condition.
borrowers and associated financial institutions, to help them tide over the  functions related to the implementation of these special programs,
crisis. Relief is to be mainly in the form of guarantees of the first  to the detriment of its primary functions of deposit insurance and
US$350 equivalent for low income depositors of troubled cooperatives    mainstream bank resolution. This is incorporated as part of
which had no formal deposit insurance scheme (treated as advances to  FOGAFIN's institutional strengthening plan.
the respective cooperatives), and refinancing at preferential rates of
increases in real loan balances of low income homeowners (for loan  13. Clear separation of the funding for FOGAFIN's special    B. Continued compliance of the
balances of up to 5,000 UPACs) who borrowed under the indexed home   programs from those for its mainstream resolution and deposit  condition. Government to make
mortgage system. This limited targeted relief program should help  insurance functions.                                          available resources equivalent to
facilitate sustainable solutions and limit social problems among the most                                                        US$200 million to FOGAFIN as
vulncrable groups. FOGAFIN has also been given authority to provide                                                              additional reserves to support its bank
credits to assist the formation and/or operation of asset management and                                                         resolution activities.
securitization companies as additional instruments to encourage market-
based resolution in mortgage lending operations. The Government    C. Rules governing FOGAFIN's special relief programs
promulgated a temporary (through end-1999) financial transactions tax    consistent with the Program's objectives and satisfactory to the  C. Satisfactory rules governing these
of 2 per 1000 to finance the costs of this relief and restructuring program.  Bank.                                              rules maintained.
FOGAFIN is also implementing a recapitalization plan to assist private
financial institutions which are facing temporary difficulties in meeting
solvency criteria, but are considered viable in the medium-term; the
recapitalization credits are subject to strict limits governing the amounts
of such credits and the burden assumed by their shareholders.



- 28 -
Annex 2: Letter f Development Policy
September 22,1999
To:
Mr. David de Ferranti                              Mr. Enriqlue Iglesias
Regional Vice President                            President
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office    Inter-American Development Bank
The World iBank                                    Washington, D.C. 20577
Washington, D.C. 20433
Dear Messrs. De Ferranti and Iglesias:
I am writing this Letter of Development Policy in order to provide the background and
context for the proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loans to support the broad range of
financial sector reforms which we are undertaking. As you know, this set of reforms are the result
of wide consultations with Colombian civil society and the private sector, policy work and
analyses conducted within the Govemment, as well as the extensive initerchange of ideas with the
World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, as well as with the Intemnational
Moneuuiy Fund. I would like to provide you a summary of the objectives of the reforms we are
and will be undertaking, our vision of the type of financial system that should emerge out of it, and
our proposed strategy and principles that will be followed in achieving that vision. I also provide
here a brief summary of other measures vhich were implemented over the last 12 months,
including those related to the declaration of economic emergency oriented towards providing relief
to the most vulnelrable groups of the civil society that have been affected by adverse financial
sector developiments.
Macro-economic Context and Proposed Framework
Overall macroeconomic conditions have a direct impact on banks and the soundness of the
finiancial sector. Recently, that impact has been definitely negative in Colombia. After decades of
girowth and cautious macro management, its economic performance has deteriorated sharply in the
last three years: (i) the GDP growth rate declined from an average of 4.6 percent per year in 1970-
95, to 1.9 percent in 1996-98. Further, during the first half of 1999, GDP shrank by about 6
percent compared to the previous year; (ii) the fiscal accounts of the non-financial public sector
(NFPS), which were roughly balanced in the first halt of this decade, showed a deficit of 3.7
percent of GDP in 1998 and a projected 6 percent of Gi)P in 1999 (usin- IMF methodology); and
(iii) the current account of the balance of payments showed a deficit of over 5 percent of GDP in
1995-98, but is expected to faIl to about 2.5 percent of G3DP in 1999, largely due to a steep decline
in imports (by 32 percent in the first half of the year). Economic decline has been accompanied by
a rapid increase in unemployment, which reached 19.8 percent in the urban areas in June 1999.



-29 -                                          Annex 2
Deteriorating external conditions aggravated Colornbia's situation in 1998 and 1999. The
country was hit by severe external shocks: (i) a trade shock due to the sharp drops in oil and coffee
prices. estimated at 1.5 percent of GDP; and (ii) the events in international credit niarkets which
have had a direct impact on the cost of borrowing. After the Russian default in August 1998 and
the viltual closing of international credit markets to developing economies, Colombia's spread
skyrocketed (as it did for most countries in the region) to a peak of over 900 basis points (bsp)
At the same time, additional public resources were needed to rebuild the areas affected by a
devastating earthquake which hit the country in January and to shore-up the ailing financial sector.
'I'hus, the autlhorities had to tum to the domestic market for financing, thereby putting additional
pressure (apart from the direct effect of extemal markets) on domestic interest rates. Also, facing
attacks on the currency and in order to avoid extensive losses of reserves and even higher interest
rates, the Central Bank shifted (devalued) the exchange rate band in September 1998 and in July
1999. Reflecting this situation, Colombia's investment-grade status has been recently downgraded
by Moody's, which also pushed down the credit ratings of five Colombian commercial banks.
Shortly thereafter, another credit rating agency (Duff & Phelps) downgraded Colombia's bonds
while still maintaining their investment rating. T'he down-grading of the country's bonds could
raise the costs of external financing.
Interest rates are a key link betveen the overall macroeconomic conditions and the real
and financial sectors. Beginning in November 1997, real interest rates on deposits had risen from
about 4 percent to around 18 percent in the last quarter of 1998. Real interest rates on loans
increased from about 14 percent to 26 percent per year. Although the external shocks described
above contributed to this rise, several domestic factors may have also contributed, including
greater demand for credit by the public sector to finance the fiscal deficit and an increase in the
flow demand for funds due to distressed borrowing by both debtors and credit institutions. Since
the end of 1998, however, the Colombian authorities have taken concerted measures to bring down
interest rates, whose reduction is seen as essential for any reactivation of the economy. T'he
benchmark 90-day DTF, has dropped from its peak of 37 percent in September 1998 to I  percent
in September 1999. Further reductions in real interest rates, and in spreads, can be achieved by
continuing to pursue fiscal adjustment, which would reduce the borrowing requirements of the
public sector. Furthermore, restructuring of the financial system as planned would reduce distress
borrowing and strengthen public confidence, which would also lead to lower interest rates, higher
investment and renewed economic growth.
Restoring macroeconomic stability is a necessary condition for the recovery of the
banking and financial sectors. Consequently, the Goverrnment has made reducing the fiscal deficit
The situation has improved since then. [n April 1999. the country's spread had fallen to about
450 bsp, although it has risen to about 630 bsp in Septetnber 1999 as a result of a number of factors, including the
continuing economic problems and the escalation in Colombia's internal conflict.



-30 -                                        Annex 2
one ot its key macroeconlomic objectives. Since taking office in August 1998, the Government has
taken several revenue enhancing and expenditure reducing measures, including widening of the
VAT base and improving tax collection, increasing the gasoline surcharge, and cutting the
operational costs of the Central Government. Notwithstanding these measures, the fiscal situation
dleteriorated this year, partly as a result of the deep recession and unexpected expenditures to cover
earthquake reconstruction as well as the costs of resolving the financial sector crisis. However.
within the context of the National Development Plan., in the first half of 1999 Congress has
approved legal amendments that would improve the fiscal situation in the medium term, including:
(i) reform of the resources and competencies of local governments (Law 60). and increasing
efficicncy of expenditure in education; (ii) improving efficiency in public universities (Law 30):
(iii) changes in royalties allocations, to attract private investment; and (iv) reforms to the 13udget
Law. to reduce earrnarking and improve the allocation of local expenditures. Further, proposals
for additional structural reforms are being introduced in the July-December 1999 legislative
session: (i) the Law to Rationalize public finances to curb their expansion: (ii) changes to continue
the relonn of social security, including elimination of several special regimes; (iii) measures to
curtail current expenditures of local governments; and (iv) a constitutional amendment to save part
of the transfers to local government, to fund local pension funds.
fo consolidate and expand these reforms, the Government has put together a
comprehensive stabilization program that would be supported by an IMF three-year Extended
Fund Facility, which is expected to be approved by the IMF Board of Directors in the fourth
quarter of 1999. The Government will seek passage by the Colombian Congress of the required
fiscal measures and the structural measures described above. The government's plan calls for a
reduction of the NFPS deficit from a projected 6% of GD)P' in 1999 to 3.5% of GDP in year 2000.
2.5% of GCOP in 2001, and to 1.5% of GDP in 2002 (using INIF methodology). This fiscal
adjustment will be accompanied by a gradual reduction in CPI inflation from a projected anlual
rate of 12% this year to 6% in 2002. In turn, the current account of the balance of payments will
remain below 3% of GDP on average throughout the period - a level that can be financed in a
sustainable manner by FDI and long terrm capital flows, In particular, the multilaterals will make
up for the reduced access to foreign credit nmarkets this year.   Foreign direct investment is
projected to increase substantially as coal, electricity and telecomnmunications companies are
privatized in 1999 and 2000. for an expected revenue of around US$ 2.5 billion.
While closing the fiscal imbalance, the Government will make a special effort to protect
social expenditures targeted to the poor. In addition, social safety net programs may be needed to
ameliorate the impact of the recession on the most vulnerable segments of the population. Thus,
within the above mentioned fiscal targets, the govemment will allocate approximately S300
million (0.3%  of GDP) per year in 2000-2002 for additional social expenditures, above and
beyond their level in 1999.  t'he Bank will work together with the Colombian authorities in
developing, implementing and financing these programs, so that they can meet tneir objectives



- 31 -                                       Annex 2
S6g -r        a a;aZ69y0g/#o^-Xc=
with efficiency and efficacy.
Iinancial Sector Backgroutnd
Stailting in 1996, the health of several important segments of the Colombian financial
sector progressively deteriorated, with a notable acceleration of negative trends with respect to the
liluidlity, solvency and non-performing loan ratios of financial intermediaries over the last year
and a half. This was in part a reflection of growing macro-economic imbalances and the
progressive slow-down of economic activity during the period 1996-1998, but was significantly
accentuated by the volatility in international capital flows induced by the South East Asian
financial crisis, the Russian default and the Brazilian currency crisis, and by the sharp fall in oil
and coffee prices. As a result, non-performing loans in the banking system reached 14% by the
end of the second quarter of 1999, compared to 8%  a year before.  Solvency conditions
deteriorated significantly, and during the last twelve months several institutions were forced to use
the last resort facility of the central bank and restructuring assistance from FOGAFIN, the bank
deposit insurance and resolution agency. Although all sectors weakened significantly, the worst
problems were in the portfolios and management of the state-owned banks, the cooperatives
system (cooperat6vasfinancieras) and the savings and loans sector (C'orporaciones de A,horro y
Vivienda --CAVs). By mid-1999, the strains in the other institutions (e.g., private banks) also
became very evident.
In line with its stated overall strategy for improving the health of Colombia's financial
system. the Covernment has already initiated steps to restructure the cooperatives sector,
separating clearly the treatment of the smaller credit unions which do not accept deposits from the
general public from  that of the "financial cooperatives" which have faculties to accept such
deposits and therefore need to be supervised on par with other general or special purpose financial
interm-ediaries. A separate supervisory and deposit insurance system has been created under Law
4i4 olf 1998 to attend to the former group (credit unions) while a major restructuring and
resolution process of financial cooperatives is being undertaken to ensure that the new institutions
fully comnply with applicable prudential and other regulations. This was later complemented by
provisions of the economic emergency decrees (2330, 2331 and 2333 of 1998 and related
amenidments), which, among other things, provided some strictly capped relief to the very small
depositors of credit unions to redress the prior deficiencies in deposit protection for this segment.
Among the staie-owned banks, the situation of the Caja Agraria, the institution devoted to
mleeting the credit needs of small farmers and certain social and regional development objectives
(e.g., the provision of payment services), had become particularly troublesome Other state-owned
or public sector banks, including Bnco de[ &ftado. Banlgco v/e C'redito Hlipotecario (BCI) afld
Banco Cafrtero also experienced significant portfolio and management problems, and are in need
of urgent restructuring, resolution and/or privatization, with the latter being the desired ultimate
objective in all cases except that of the Caja Agraria.
The housing finance system was severely affected by the very high real interest rates in
the system, which together with falling real estate prices, the large degree of term transformation



-32 -                                          Annex 2
kC< aS3i
in the financing provided by CAVs and other housing finance institutions, and the specific
characteristics of the mortgage loan indexing systems (including automatic capitalization of large
components of interest payments due), led to many housinig loans becoming unviable, severely
weakening the pottfolios of these institutions. In addition, the earthquake which struck the coffee
growing r egion of Colombia on January 25, 1999 caused major damage to real estate in that region
and fibrther weakened housing loan portfolios and the capacity of borrowers in that region to pay.
The Government issued two important decrees (Decrees 196 and 350 of 1999) to address the
special needs of the population in this region resulting from earthquake related damage.
'I'he economic and earthquake emergency decrees were aimed at redressing the urgent
needs and providing relief to the most vulnerable housing loan recipients, families affected by
eartlquake damages, and depositors of the cooperatives system who suffered losses as a result of
the absence of an adequate small deposit insurance system. They also assist in the resolution of
the financially stranded state-owned banks. 'I'he emergency relief assistance has been carefully
circuLmscribed within strict limits and will be subject to strict eligibility criteria, in order to keep its
fiscal impact within manageable limits. In fact, a temporary transactions tax of 2 per thousand
(0.2%) on financial transactions related to demand deposits, savings accounts and other deposits is
in effect through the end of 1999 to finance a significant part of-the costs of economic emergency
assistance, and during 2000 to provide relief for earthquake victims.
More recently, taking into account the increasingly acute portfolio problems and
consequent erosion of capital that became evident by mid-I 999 in other segments of the system,
the Government announced special support to facilitate recapitalization of institutions deemed to
he viable but experiencing temporary capital inadequacy. 'Ihe support is provided in the form of
medium termn loans from FOGAFIN to owners of those institutions that fully adjust their assets
and capital to reflect the true economic value of their assets, following stringent standards that
require writing off most non-productivc assets. The loans would be subject to strict collateral
r 1quirements, and would be available only to those institutions that decide to adopt this course by
the end of 1999 and have submitted a satisfactory plan to restore financial viability in the medium
terrm.   FOCJAFIN and the Superinlendencia Bancaria will closely monitor and supervise the
implementation of the performance agreements (cornvenios de desempefio) reached with the
respective recapitalized financial institutions.
Financial Sector Reform Strategy
Against this background, the Government has formrulated a comprehensive financial sector
reform  vision and a strategy to address the main structural issues affecting the sector.  The
principal ingredients of the Government's strategy are to: coordinate and ensure consistency of the
use of public funds for financial sector reform with the broader macroeconomic and structural
reform policy goals outlined above; strengthen prudential supervision of banks following
international standards through improved off-site an(d on-site inspections; facilitate rapid
resolution of non-viable financial intermediaries; where necessary and fully jtustified, help
recapitalization of viable institutions in connection with such resolution, with provision of any
capital assistance strictly subject to clearly specified criteria and conditions, including realistic



-33 -                                        Annex 2
evaluation of bank assets and equity positions, financial, management, and/or administrative
restructuring, resolution and work-out arrangements for problem assets, and equitable distribution
of losses incurred: and put in place an incentive structure for the future that discourages recurrence
of banking vulnerabilities.  Over the medium  term, the objective would be to develop a
competitive and robust financial system that is private sector driven and able to provide efficiently
the financial services required by households and the real sector. 'IThe World Bank and the D1D3
have been closely involved in discussing specific strategies and options for financial sector
reforms in these various areas, and together with the IMF, have advised the Government on the
main elements of the program.
In implementing the above vision and strategy, the Government will focus major attention
over the next two years on two broad sets of parallel activities related to banking system
restructuring.
First, to address the problems already identified in specific segments of the financial
system, including, in particular, the state-owned and "ofYicialized" banks, cooperatives and
housing finance institutions (CAVs), the Govemment is undertaking a series of strong actions in
each of these areas to obtain prompt resolution of the problem institutions. In doing so, full
attention will be paid to ensuring that any institution permitted to continue to operate will fully
respect the standards laid down by the Banking Superintendency (Superintendencia Ban7caria) fur
the respective category of instilutions, and that they will indeed be able to achieve solvency and
operate as viable institutions in the medium term; in the contrary case, actions will be taken,
within the framework of the banking law, to close and liquidate them or sell their component parts.
Througb a decree issued in June 1999 (Decree No. 1065). the Government has dissolved
('anu Agrariau, dismissed all of that institution's employees and created a substantially downsized
new institution, Banco Agrario, by closing most branches of the Cajtl in locations where there are
private financial institutions available, and closing or consolidating other branches where justified,
after taking into account the payments and other basic service needs of these areas. The non-
performing part of the Caja has been separated and will be liquidated according to agreed
procedures. The new Bantco Agrai-io will be a much leaner institution which will operate under
clearly laid out banking principles, separating out the channeling of any subsidies for social
development purposes which would be funded directly from govemment budget resources. Banco
Agrcria will concentrate its activities in areas currently not served by other financial
inter-mediaries, and will be subject to strict limits on the size of the loans and the total amount of
credit exposure it can assume. Attachments I and 2 provide additional details of the restructuring
of the Caja Agrairia. and the policies of the new Bunco Agrurio.
In the case of the other five major state-owned and "officialized" banks, the Government
strategy is to privatize them within the next eighteen months, or if this does not prove feasible,
achieve within one year thereafter an alternative financial resolution of these institutions in a
manner that does not result in any net additional fiscal cost to the Government and maximizes the
value of assets recovery. In preparation for the privatization effort, the Government has issued
decrees to consolidatc these institLutions into three "packages", which offer greater synergies and



-34 -                                        Annex 2
:3G~e   i  eZeZ ? e           g       ZVLgg> W
help overcome certain legal obstacles that have until now hindered the sale of the banks to
prospective buyers. FOGAFIN will act as the Government's agent to undertake the privatization
of these institutions and to manage them tightly during the transition. For the first package,
comprising, CGraiahorrar and Banco de C)redito Hipotecario (BCH),  FOGAFIN has already
contracted an investment bank (Goldman SSachs) to prepare and execCute the process to brinig them
to the point of sale by June 30, 2000. For the other two packages comprising Banco C'afetero, and
lhe result of the Banco cdel ,stado-Banco Uconal merger, FOGAFIN expects to hire qualified
investment banks within the next six months and bring them to the point of sale by about the end
of 2000. To minimize the fiscal and economic costs associated with continued operation of the
state-owned banks during the transition period, individual transition plans have been forrnulated
for eaCh of the state-owned banks, which encompass strict limits imposed on them  by the
Sn-perintendencia Bancaria andlor FOGAFIN on the use of deposits and loan recoveries for
making fresh loans, as well as other restructuring actions to help improve their financial health and
solvency ratios in preparation for privatization. Any continuing support to state-owned institutions
(e.g.., to pursue certain high priority social goals) would come entirely from the Government's
budget or specially mobilized resources (e.g.. those raised through the emergency provisions) in a
transparent manner, without causing any further financial burden to FOGAFIN. Attachments I
and 2 contain the details of the background, the privatization strategies and the transition plans for
these institutions.
The restructuring of the cooperativ'as financieras and other institutions of a cooperative
nature. that are under the supervision of the Superintendencia Bancaria will take place following
clearly specified principles goveming their operation as monitored by the Superintendencia
Baticwearia, with  timely  actions to close  or liquLidate non-compliant institutions.   The
SuperintWendnica Hancaria will promulgate and put into effect regulations for the licensing and
operation of the cooperativasfinancieras under its supervision, whlich will be consistent with the
goals of promoting competition, improving efficiency and providing equitable regulatory
treatment. 'I'he operation of those parts of thei cooperatives system not tinder Superiniendencia
Bancaria supervision will be governed by the principles set forth in Law Number 454 and
subsequent relevant decrees, and wvill be supervised by the specialized institutions created for their
oversight. Attachment 3 provides the details of proposed actions to reform the cooperatives
sector.
Second, in parallel with the above actions, the Government prepared major financial
sector legislation to amend the Financial System Framework Law. This major amendment, Xwhich
wvas approved by the Colombian Congress on June 30, 1999 and became law on Auglst 3, 1999,
put into effect key structural improvements that: (i) create the required faculties for supervision
and bank resolution for the Stperintendencia Banicaria and FOGAFIN; (ii) provide them sufficient
independence and autonoomy of action and facilitates their institutional strengthening to undertake
timely detection and preventive actions; (iii) enable and promote the use of appropriate nmarket
driven resolution instruments and techniques; (iv) put in place certain improvements in capital
adequacy rules and prudential rules of financial intermediaries, as well as rules applicable to the
housing finance system, securitization and capital markets institutions: and more generally, (v)
foster healthy competition within the financial system subject to transparent rules and promotes



-35 -                                        Annex 2
4&       Je4~, fi    W K1,-Zo
capital mnarkets development, thus laying the foundatiotn for the development of a healthy and
etticient financial system  in the long term    Among the major objectives of the reforms
contemplated in the legislation are to minimize the risk of a possible systemic crisis developing in
the financial system, minimize the economic costs associated with banking systcm problems, and
avoid recurTence of the type of problems we have recently witnessed in the system, through the
application of effective preventive measures and rapid resolution.
The ensuing operating regulations will provide clear rules and criteria which the
Superintendtecia Bancaria and FOCiAFIN will apply in using their new faculties. In particular.
the detailed regulations, norms and procedures of the Superintendencia will provide specific rules
and criteria that would be applied in determining appropriate preventive actions, loan classification
and provisioning norms and procedures, and a well specified set of progressively strict prompt
corrective actions, including intervention in and closing of troubled financial institutions whenever
appropriate. The regulations pertaining to FOGAFIN operations will clearly delineate
circumstances under which FOGJAFIN will provide financial assistance to support bank resolution
(e.g., only subject to an agreed set of restructuring, resolution andilor recapitalization actions that
wxould assure return to solvency of the institution), the principles of resolution (e.g., the need for
existing shareholders to bear the cost of their actions, burden-sharing principles between
sihareholders, creditors, depositors and the deposit insurance agency), and criteria for application
of different types of resolution techniques. Attachment 4 contains a summary statement of the
main principles for detecting and addressing bank solvency problems and resolution of problem
batiks.
'Tlhis strategy will be implemented in conijunction with a sustainable macroeconomic
framework along the lines articulated above, paying special attention to minimizing the fiscal costs
of the financial sector reform and policies to help achieve a continued reduction in the level of real
interest rates in the economy. Supplementary support being channeled via emergency relief
measures to the most critically affected home mortgage holders and depositors of the cooperatives
system is also expected to help reduce the magnitudes of unrecoverable loans while providing
relief to vulnerable groups most affected by financial system problems.
We will also put into effect comprehensive institutional strengthening programs for the
Superintendencia Bancaria and FOGAFIN to align them institutionally to meet the requirements
of their respective responsibilities under the above strategy, enhance their technical capacities to
undertake the expanded responsibilities, strengthen enforcement and ensure consistent application
of agtreed prudential requirements, supervision and r esolution principles, and provide for necessary
staff development and training. The Government has already decreed a restructuring of the
Sul7erinlendencia  Bancaria to provide the grounding  for some of these impr-ovements.
Attachments 5 and 6 provide the detailed institutional strengthening programs of the
Superintendk,encia Bancariez and FOGAFIN respectively. Among other things. we will ensure that
the financial accounts and resources of FOGAFIN related to its deposit insurance and bank
resolution functions are clearly separated and financially protected from its other activities. In
particular, any support provided by FOGAFIN for administering emergency relief programs will
be f'ully financed by the government directly from budget or other separately earrnarked resources,



-36 -                                        Annex 2
%4pfzaM. a f6vatz
and will be compatible both with the institutional strengthening program for FlOGAFIN, and with
principles discussed above for the resolution of troubled financial institutions. We will also ensure
that FOGAFIN's administrative capacity to fulfill its core tasks of deposit insurance and problem
banlk resolution will not become overly stretched or diluted as a result of the otlher administrative
responsibilities assigned to it. Further, we will ensure that resources at least of the magnitude of
disbursements from the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank provided to support
the program are made available to supplement FOGAFIN's reserves or resource needs in
achieving efficient bank resolution.
A special area of interest for the Government is to strictly enforce a moral code for all
executives in charge of state-owned or public sector controlled banks.  Several recent actions
demonstrate the Government's seriousness of purpose in this area. Law 5 10 of 1999 instituted an
inter-governmental task force to investigate and pursue public charges and penalties for executives
involved in corruption or mismanagement of public banks. An inter-institutional effort also
supports a tnit working on detecting instances of suspected money laundering which will be
strengthened over the course of the financial sector reform program.
Complementing the above measures, we will also carry out within the program period a
study to examine the options for rationalizing the system of second-tier financial institutions
operating in Colombia, with a view to enhancing their efficiency and adapting them to the needs of
the more modem private sector driven financial system which we expect to see emerge as a result
of the reform  program.  Initial actioni to facilitate this has already been taken through an
announced merger of four second-tier agencies (rFI, FINDETER, FEN and FONADE) and the
associated fiduciary funds. In relation to the special issues faced in Colombia's housing finance
system, and specifically to assure that new housing loans contracted will have good financial
viability, we will take steps to ensure full transparency of the real costs of the mortgage loans
contracted and to avoid unsustainable indexation systems which involve negative amortization in
real terms.
We expect that implementation of the preceding set of policy and institutional measures
will enable achieving our long term vision for the sector of the development of a healthy, efficient
and competitive banking system free of recurrence of the type of problems witnessed over the past
2-3 years.
Against this background, the Government of Colombia is requesting the financial support
of your respective institutions to help implement the financial sector reforms outlined, above and in
the attached documents.
Sincerely,                                      4
Juan Camilo Restrepo
Minister of Finance and Public Credit



-37-                                Annex 2
List of Attachments to the Letter of Development Policy
(not included)
Attachment 1:  Background Information and Analysis of Public Banks
Attachment 2:  Strategy for Resolution of Financial Sector Problems (covering state-
owned, officialized and private banks)
Attachment 3:  Measures to Reform the Cooperatives Sector
Attachment 4:  Principles of Prompt Correction and Resolution of Financial Institutions
Attachment 5:  Institutional Strengthening Plan of Superintendency of Banks
Attachment 6:  Institutional Strategy and Strengthening Plan of FOGAFIN



- 38 -
Annex 3: Colombia: Principles of Prompt Corrective Action and Resolution of
Financial Institutions
(Translation of Official Document)
1.- General Principles
* As the financial position of a credit institution falls into greater degrees of
deterioration, supersvisory oversight and enforcement measures will intensify
according to well-defined trigger points, policies and procedures, so as to foster
prompt correction and, if it fails, early resolution, all in a fairly automatic manner.
The regimes applicable to banks on a deteriorating path (Instituciones de salvamento
and, toma de posesion) aim at minimizing the error of leaving an insolvent bank in
operation.
* Policies and procedures to resolve failing banks seek to; (i) limit moral hazard for
bank shareholders and uninsured depositors and creditors (ii) minimize destabilizing
contagion effects and (iii) avoid unnecessary erosion of asset value.
* Bank failure resolution is governed by well-specified criteria for loss allocation so
that uninsured depositors, creditors and shareholders of a failed bank are not
protected at the expense of losses to FOGAFIN (as a Deposit Insurance Agency
responsible for "resolution").
? Liquidity assistance to institutions that are solvent is to be provided by Central Bank.
FOGAFIN (as a Deposit Insurance Agency responsible for "resolution") assistance
is exclusively directed to restore financial stability/viability of the system.
' "Prompt correction phase" applies to banks whose deterioration has not yet reached a
point of no return. Well-defined trigger points activate both the "correction phase"
and the "resolution phase" to avert abuse of the stronger powers granted to supervisor
in those phases, and reducing the possibility of legal challenges by the affected
parties, providing therefore a firmer legal ground for enforcement.
2.-Principles regarding Prompt Correction Phase
*  Once activated, the prompt correction regime (Instituciones de Salvamento including
as medidas cautelares; a) vigilancia especial, b) ordenes de recapitalizacion, c)
administracionfiduciaria, d) cesion total o parcial de activos pasivos contratos y
otros establecimientos y, e) fusion) automatically gives rise to limitations on bank
activities to avoid excessive risk taking and assets erosion.
* Trigger points for prompt correction must be based on; (i) degree of deficiency in
capital adequacy ratios; (ii) chronic illiquidity; (iii) fraud; (iv) noncompliance with
prudential rules or with supervisory instructions and ;(v) absence of "good
management".



-39-                              Annex 3
* Consequences (medidas cautelares) that follow a trigger point in this phase must be
graduated and clearly defined in accordance with the relevant trigger point.
* Regimes to enforce prompt corrective actions must allow for a reasonable probability
that problems can be corrected only on account of bank administrators and private
sector shareholders. To that extent; (i) it is to be recommended to evaluate the
possibility of maintaining , in certain cases, appropriate confidentiality regarding the
existence of such a regime , in order to prevent acceleration of bank's deterioration;
(ii) a well-defined coordination among Superintendency, FOGAFIN and Central
Bank should be established in order to address liquidity problems; (iii) FOGAFIN
should not take active participation within this phase in its capacity as a Deposit
Insurance Agency.
* There would be specific gradations within this phase in respect of capital adequacy-
based degrees of deficiency.
* Restructuring plans should not relax , but rather tighten, standards that would
otherwise be applied, to avoid room for ad-hoc regulatory forbearance.
* This phase ends either when the troubled bank returns to adequate standards or when
a trigger point to Resolution phase occurs .
3.- Principles regarding "Resolution Phase"
* Resolution phase begins automatically once a trigger point is declared by the
Superintendency (point of no return), and takes place always before liquidation.
-  Resolution leads to the early closure and liquidation ofthe bank. "Toma deposesion
para administrar" is not an option under normal circumstances.
* Trigger points for resolution are; (i) once a certain threshold of deficiency in the
capital adequacy ratio is reached (60% deficiency relative to the required ratio of 9
%); (ii) suspension of payments to any bank creditor; (iii) noncompliance with key
elements of a restructuring plan ,and ; (iv) intentional hiding of information from the
Superintendency.
* Resolution mechanisms must be driven by FOGAFIN ( in its capacity as Deposit
Insurance Agency) aiming at both to protect insured or covered depositors and to
maintain the stability of the financial system. Bank resolution is executed under
efficient, and modern market techniques that minimize contagion effects and prevent
unnecessary erosion of assets value.
* Basic resolution techniques include one or both of: (i) payout of insured depositors
while subrogating their claims during liquidation to FOGAFIN, either directly or
through transferring deposits to other solvent financial institution on a competitive



-40-                               Annex 3
and transparent basis; (ii) separation of certain assets and deposits from the balance
sheet of the failing bank and their quick transfer to a sound bank in the system on a
competitive and transparent basis. The choice of the specific resolution technique will
be based on the feasibility of transferring assets and deposits, taking into the principle
of least cost of resolution to FOGAFIN and the Government.
* Resolution is followed by the liquidation of the "residual" balance sheet.
4.- Resolution under "extraordinary circumstances"
*  The existence of "extraordinary circumstances" (e.g., specific action required to avoid
systemic risk or contagion effect ) should be determined by explicit agreement
between the Superintendent of Banks and the Director of FOGAFIN, and confirmed
by an affirmative vote by a majority of the Board of Directors of FOGAFIN. Criteria
for such a determination should be laid out and mainly focus on too big to fail or
other systemic risk considerations, taking into account the costs associated with
weakened market discipline and moral hazard.
*  FOGAFIN's support assistance in these cases could include, for a limited time, either
assistance in the processes of recapitalization, merger or acquisition of banks as long
as it gains "hard" monitoring or control rights over the assisted entity or changing the
administration and injecting capital in the troubled bank as needed, provided that
shareholder's property rights on the bank have been previously eliminated or
substantially diluted.



-41-                              Annex 4
Annex 4: Roots of the current financial sector difficulties
Boom and bust credit cycle
After decades of sound economic management and steady economic growth,
Colombia experienced large macroeconomic imbalances in recent years culminating in a
sharp contraction of output. During the fist half of the 1990s, public spending increased
considerably, owing to the introduction of large social programs, important security
outlays, and a substantial increase in expenditure by the regional and municipal
(territorial) governments. The latter followed the implementation of constitutionally
mandated revenue-sharing arrangements and a large expansion in credit from the banking
system. Thus, the public sector deficit rose from near balance during 1992-1993 to
around 4 percent during 1997-1998. In addition to accentuating the business cycle, the
fiscal expansion placed upwards pressures on interest rates and contributed directly to the
deterioration of banks' portfolios as many territories have experienced severe difficulties
in servicing their debt obligations.
The impact of the fiscally-induced expenditure expansion, which was reflected in
a widening current account deficit for the balance of payments, was compounded by large
capital inflows induced by a favorable international environment and increased investor
confidence resulting in part from large oil discoveries. Notwithstanding efforts by the
monetary authorities to moderate the capital inflows and dampen their impact through a
combination of capital controls, sterilization, and step exchange rate appreciations,
international reserves and M2 grew rapidly during 1991-1994. The rapid growth of
monetary aggregates was mirrored by a steady expansion of financial sector deposits and
credit. When deflated by either the consumer price index or by the average deposit and
lending rates (so as to obtain net cash-flows), real deposits and credit grew steadily
during 1993-1994.
The credit boom was associated with a substantial asset price inflation,
particularly in the real estate sector, as easier credit and higher collateral values fed on
each other and loans were classified on the basis of repayment records and collateral
values, rather than expected repayment capacity. Credit growth was particularly buoyant
for the mortgage and consumer sectors, resulting in a significant rise in households' debt
burdens. The expansion of financial intermediation was further stimulated by the easing,
in the early 1 990s, of the licensing requirements for financial institutions and a lowering
of minimum capital requirements. This resulted in a proliferation of small financial
intermediaries, particularly financial credit corporations, which increased the fragility of
the system.
The credit boom came to an end in late- 1995 as a result of a slowing down of
GDP growth reflecting domestic political uncertainty, weakening international
confidence, and a tightening of credit policy in an effort to dampen domestic demand
growth. Growing market concerns about the sustainability of the large fiscal and external
deficits resulted in the emergence of significant exchange rate pressures. The latter
accelerated in 1998 in response to the turmoil in international financial markets. The
increase in country risk and deteriorating international environment led-as in other



- 42 -                            Annex 4
Latin American countries-to a substantial increase in the yields of Colombian
eurobonds. It also led to a reassessment of Colombia's outlook as assessed by two major
rating agencies, in preparation for a possible downgrade. In turn, the authorities' efforts
to stabilize the exchange rate led to a sharp increase in real interest rates and an abrupt
contraction of real lending flows. At the same time, real GDP growth decelerated
abruptly in 1998 and turned negative during 1999.
The quality of financial intermediaries' credit portfolios deteriorated rapidly, as
evidenced by the growth of non performing loans over total loans, which rose from
around 6 percent in 1995 to over 14 percent by April 1999. While this deterioration was
worsened by the very high real interest rates that prevailed during 1998, the liquidity
squeeze resulting from the contraction of net credit flows and the economic downturn-
rather than the high interest rates per se-is likely to have been the key factor underlying
the immediate increase in loan delinquency. Indeed, while similarly high real interest
rates were observed during 1995-1996, they had at the time little immediate impact on
loan delinquency. At the same time, however, the very high real lending rates of the
1 990s-that resulted both from the authorities' efforts to sterilize capital inflows and high
intermediation margins-are likely to have contributed to undermine borrowers' debt
servicing capacity over the longer term. While such difficulties remained hidden from
view as long as the debts were refinanced, they were brought to the fore by the abrupt
reversal of the credit cycle.
While banks' direct exposure to foreign exchange risk is not a substantial issue in
Colombia, as they are generally well hedged, they could be indirectly exposed through an
increase in credit risk. Notwithstanding the existence of capital controls (that discouraged
short-term borrowing abroad by Colombian residents), the foreign exchange denominated
liabilities of Colombian corporations are large (they are equivalent to over 150 percent of
their local currency denominated banking debts). However, these debts are mainly with
offshore banks. Due to the prohibition to offer foreign currency deposits, Colombian
banks' scope for lending in foreign currency is restricted to their direct borrowing abroad,
which is small (about 7 percent of banks' total liabilities). As many of the corporations
that have direct access to foreign borrowing are likely to be engaged in foreign trade, an
exchange rate depreciation may have only a limited impact on their debt servicing
capacity. If so, the impact on the Colombian financial system's soundness of an exchange
rate depreciation could be relatively moderate. However, further analysis would be
needed to corroborate this hypothesis.
Structural factors
Several additional factors of a more structural nature have contributed to
worsening the financial system's difficulties. First, Colombian corporations are highly
leveraged. While data for the 170 listed companies indicate that the debt-equity ratio
could be around 0.7, which is in the mid-range by international standards, a survey done
on the basis of a broader sample of firms indicates that leverage could be as high as 1.3,
which is comparable to ratios observed in some of the most highly leveraged Asian
countries before the crisis. In any event, in view of the low reported profitability of
Colombian corporations and the very high real lending rates, even a mid-range leverage



- 43 -                              Annex 4
ratio would imply that corporations are highly vulnerable both to continued high interest
rates and to the current credit contraction.
In addition to reflecting weak capital markets, the high leverage ratios may also
reflect deficient lending and supervisory practices, as, until recently, loans were granted
and classified on the basis of the borrower's repayment record rather than a forward-
looking cash flow analysis. This problem was compounded by weaknesses in on-site
supervision as the supervisory authorities tended to favor off-site supervision over on-site
inspections. This hindered the assessment of credit risks, particularly on a consolidated
basis, and led to overlooking the quality of financial intermediaries' internal controls and
risk assessment procedures. Such weaknesses contributed to creating a somewhat
permissive environment for bank lending and to relaxing market discipline on borrowers.
The environrnent of moderately high but recently declining inflation also
contributed to the difficulties experienced by financial intermediaries. To reduce the
uncertainty associated with high and variable inflation, which affects most severely the
financial instruments with long maturities such as mortgages, the latter were initially
indexed to the price level, thereby protecting savings and loans institutions from nominal
interest rate risk but exposing them to real interest rate risk. To remove this exposure, a
new adjustment index was introduced in 1992, based on the deposit rate. This shifted the
real interest rate risk on borrowers, thereby ultimately increasing the credit risk to which
financial institutions were exposed.
The vulnerability of mortgage portfolios to an increase in real interest rates was
exacerbated by the decline in the real value of real estate and the importance of collateral
as backing for loans. As the value of collateral dipped below that of the loans, debtors
were induced to cede the collateral to the bank rather than repaying the loan. This
contributed to raise the share of unproductive assets in banks' portfolios, thereby
undermining their profitability.
At the same time, the gradual shift from non interest bearing demand deposits to
interest bearing term deposits-a sequel of moderately high inflationary years-together
with the decline in the rate of inflation, have contributed during 1995-1998 to reduce
financial intermediaries' net interest margins. This reduction reflected for the most part a
shrinking difference between the marginal and average cost of funds to banks. Thus, the
inflation tax appropriated by financial intermediaries has declined steadily due to declines
in both nominal interest rates (the tax rate) and the share of demand deposits over total
deposits (the tax base).
By reducing the profitability of financial intermediation and exerting pressures
towards raising lending rates (thereby increasing credit risk), these trends have
contributed to raising financial sector stress. In turn, the deterioration of loan portfolios
has led to a significant widening of intermediation spreads, net of their policy-induced
component (i.e., net of the impact of unremunerated reserve requirements, compulsory
investment at below market rates, and contributions to financial agencies). By
contributing to the increase in real lending rates, this is likely to have worsened portfolio
deterioration.



- 44 -                             Annex 4
Financial sector stress was also exacerbated by high operating costs in the
traditional banking sector and the increased competition from universal banks,
particularly foreign banks, on specialized banks. The financial liberalization measures
taken in the early 1 990s, which relaxed licensing requirements, opened access to foreign
banks, and moved towards a multibanking scheme, have increased competitive pressures
on a number of intermediaries and reduced their franchise value. In particular, strong
pressures were exerted on savings and loans institutions and finance corporations which
have higher costs of funding and are more exposed to market risks. As a result, the
liabilities of the more specialized (and smaller) intermediaries have fallen in real terms,
giving rise to endemic liquidity difficulties. At the same time, as the funding costs of
these institutions have risen, they have been induced to engage into higher rate-higher
risk lending, thereby undermining their solvency.



- 45 -                                         Annex 5
Annex 5: Key Economic Indicators
Actual               Estimate            Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculturea                          14.8    14.5    14.0    14.1    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5    14.5
Industr                              29.1    29.0    29.0    29.0    27.1    27.1    27.0    27.0    27.0
Servicesa                            56.1    56.5    56.9    57.0    58.4    58.4    58.5    58.5    58.5
Total Consumption                      74.5    74.2    77.8    77.0    77.7    81.1    80.4    80.0    79.3
Gross domestic                         25.5    25.8    22.2    23.0    22.3    18.9    19.6    20.0    20.7
investment
Government investment                 7.4      8.8    10.2    10.0      8.2     8.3      7.7     7.1     6.1
Private investment                    18.1    17.0    12.0    13.0    14.0    10.6    11.9    12.9    14.7
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                        15.0    14.5    14.2    13.9    13.9    14.6    15.7    17.1    17.8
Imports(GNFS)                          20.9    21.0    19.1    19.4    19.6    14.3    15.6    17.4    18.0
Grossdomesticsavings                   19.6    19.4    18.3    18.0    16.6    12.6    13.9    15.8    17.5
Grossnationalsavingse                  21.1    20.8    17.3    17.6    16.5    14.5    15.4    17.0    18.0
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product              79939.5 92505.6 99351.6  102432   95964  91645.6 94395.0 977982.0 102685.2
(US$ million at current
prices)
Grossnationalproductper              2330.0  2350.0  2410.0  2600.0  2600.0  2240.0  2200.0  2130.0  2190.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%)
Gross domestic productat             5.8%    5.2%    2.0%    3.1%    0.6%   -4.5%    3.0%    3.8%    4.8%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income                8.5%    5.2%    2.0%    5.9%   -2.4%   -3.0%    2.3%    4.3%       5.2%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1975 prices)
Gross domestic productat             3.9%    3.2%    0.1%    0.1%   -1.1%   -5.2%    0.1%    2.4%    3.4%
market prices
Total consumption                    5.4%    3.5%    1.4%    3.6%   -1.1%   -3.0%   -1.8%    0.7%    3.4%
Private consumption                  4.0%    2.8%    0.1%   -0.2%   -1.2%   -3.8%    0.3%       1.3%    3.8%
(Continued)



- 46 -                                           Annex 5
Colombia - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator              1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b                      11960.8 13765.3  14414.6 14238.0 13339.0 13352.8 14718.8  16704.4 18276.6
Merchandise FOB                   8748.5  10222.4 10634.5 12057.0 11358.0 12377.0 13519.0  13662.0 14376.0
Imports (GNFS)b                    13948.3  16199.1  16282.7 18399.0 17468.0 13074.8 14680.8  17040.4 18462.6
MerchandiseFOB                    11040.0  12920.9  12755.5  14771.0  14029.0 10503.0  11823.0 12323.0 12803.0
Resource balance                    -1987.5  -2433.8  -1868.1  -4161.0  -4129.0   278.0    38.0  -336.0  -186.0
Net current transfers                 862.4   678.6   488.9   640.0   480.0   545.0   506.0   517.0   527.0
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance             -3262.8  -4381.8  -4788.4  -5892.0  -5909.0  -1843.0  -2151.0 -2783.0  -2828.0
(after official capital grants)
Netprivate foreign direct            1515.5  2217.1  3487.4  4892.0  2509,0   174.0  3498.0  1722.0  1420.0
investment
Long-termloans(net)                  1707.7  1575.3  2116.4  3169.0  1753.0  1197.0   390.0   395.0   628.0
Official                            -467.2  -423.0   -96.8   877.0  1538.0  1781.0   550.0   257.0   508.0
Private                            2174.9  1998.3  2213.2  2292.0   215.0  -584.0  -160.0   139.0   121.0
Othercapital(net,including           -127.4   241.4  -2297.4  -2428.0   355.3   -13.4   355.1   502.2  -209.6
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd                   167.0   348.0  1482.0   -30.1  -1374.0  -721.0   426.0   255.0   271.0
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of                -2.5%   -2.6%   -1.9%   -4.1%   -4.3%    0.3%    0.0%   -0.3%   -0.2%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1975 prices)
Merchandise exports                   4.8%   16.8%    4.0%   13.4%   -5.2%    8.9%    9.2%        1.1%    5.2%
(FOB)
Primary                                         ..               ..      ..       ..
Manufactures                           ..        .               ..      ..       ..
Merchandise imports                  18.9%   17.1%    4.1%    11.6%   -5.0%  -25.2%    12.6%    4.2%      3.9%
(CIF)
Public finance
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)'
Total revenues                       25.8%   26.1%   27.8%   27.8%   27.0%   27.4%   27.5%   27.5%   27.6%
Total expenditures                   21.4%   27.1%   30.2%   31.5%   30.7%   33.6%   31.1%   30.0%   29.2%
(Continued)



- 47 -                                           Annex 5
Colombia - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Actual               Estimate             Projected
Indicator               1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Current account surplus(+)             -5.8    -5.0    -4.8    -5.4    -5.7    -2.1    -2.5    -3.2    -3.2
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure                     5.6     8.8    10.0    10.4      8.7      9.3     8.8      8.4     7.3
Foreign financing                      -1.8     1.2      0.9     0.6     2.0      1.7    -0.1      1.3      0.9
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP(atcurrentmarket                 19.6    19.1    19.4    22.9    23.4    32.3    31.3    32.3    33.3
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                          39.7    21.7    24.4    41.9    21.0    54.0    11.1    18.3    18.4
Private sector credit growth           76.4    80.4    73.4    79.2    77.6    83.2    82.0    82.0    82 0
total credit growth (O/D)
Price indices (1975 = 100)
Merchandise export price               93.7   104.5   105.7   109.7    97.5    97.8    97.6   100.8   103.6
index
Merchandise import price              110.0   118.5   118.2   125.4   118.6   119.3   122.3   125.5   128.6
index
Merchandise terms of trade             85.1    88.2    89.4    87.5    82.3    82.0    79.8    80.3    80.6
index
Realexchangerate                       98.6   100.0   107.2   119.2   104.8   119.9   121.6   130.0   135.4
(US$/LCU)t
Real interest rates on deposits              10.8%    5.0%    5.3%    14.7%
Consumer price index                 22.6%   20.9%   20.2%    18.6%   16.7%    11.0%    10.0%    8.0%    6.0%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator                         24.8%    18.9%   19.5%    17.0%   17.5%    10.5%    10.9%   8.8%     7.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost.
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. NFPS Revenues and Expenditures, including Privatization revenues and transfers to the Private Sector.
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units," An increase in US$ILCU denotes appreciation.



Schedule D
Annex 6: Status of Bank Group Operations in Colombia
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Jul-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                    and actdal
Fiscal                                                                                                                                 disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD        IDA      Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 131
Active 8lr-jects
CO-PE-39082    1999   INVIAS                             TOLL ROAD CONCESSION                    137.10        0.00        0.00             lO0.00       40.00         0.00
CO-PE-50576     1999   GOVERNMENT                        YOUTH DEVELOPMENT                         5.00        0.00        0.00               4.79          .79        0.00
CO-PE-46031     1998   GOVERNMENT                        MAGDALENA MEDIO                           5.00        0.00        0.00               3.38          .13        0.00
CO-PE-46112     1998   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA            PASTO EDUCATION                           7.20        0.00        0.00               5.89        1.19         0.00
CO-PE-53243     1998   MINHACIENDA                       PEASANT ENTERPRISE Z                      5.00        0.00        0.00               4.59          .29        0.00
CO-PE-6861      1998   FINDETER                          URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE                     75.00        0.00        0.00              10.32          .32        0.00
CO-PE-6891      1998   GOV OF COLOMBIA                   ANTIOQUIA EDUCATION                      40.00        0.00        0.00              38.74        3.64         0.00
CO-PE-40102     1997   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                  REG.REF.TA                               12.50        0.00        0.00              11.69        4.70         0.00
CO-PE-6884      1997   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA            FIN MRKTS DEV TA                         15.00        0.00        0.00              13.37        6.87         0.00
CO-PE-39291     1996   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA            URBAN ENVIRONMENT TA                     20.00        0.00        0.00              12.99       10.97         0.00
CO-PE-6872      1996   BOGOTA DISTRICT GOVERNMEN         URBAN TRNSPRT                            65.00        0.00        0.00              42.93       26.95         4.75
CO-PE-6887      1996   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                  POWER MARKET DEVELOP                    249.30        0.00        0.00              67.26       29.18        16.52
CO-PE-6894      1996   GOVERNMENT                        SANTAFE I eWTR/SUPPL                    145.00        0.00        0.00              89.87       66.20         0.00
CO-PE-6880      1995   GOVERNMENT OF CLM                 AGRICULTURE TECHNOLO                     51.00        0.00        0.00              37.30       21.00         0.00
CO-PE-6893      1995   GOVERNMENT OF COLOMBIA            ENERGY TA                                11.00        0.00        0.00               3.55        3.55         0.00
CO-PE-6866      1994   GOV. OF COLOMBIA                  SECONDARY EDUC                           90.00        0.00        0.00              54.99       43.26        11.52
CO-PE-6868      1994   GOV OF COLOMBIA                   NATURAL RESOURCE MAN                     39.00        0.00        0.00              17.81       10.82        10.37
CO-PE-6889      1994   GOVERMT OF COLOMBIA               PUBLIC FINANCIAL MAN                     30.00        0.00        0.00               4.60        4.60         0.00
CO-PE-6854      1993   GOV OF COLOMBIA        IA         MUNICIPAL HEALTH SER                     50.00        0.00        0.00              30.30       27.29        19.29
CO-PE-6852      1991   GOVT OF COLOMBIA                  MUNIC DEVT                               60,00        0.00        0.00               5.05        5.05         0.00
Total                                                                                         1,112.10         0.00        0.00             619.42      306.80       62.45
Active Projects       Closed Proects           Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                 492.68            6,910.67            7,403.35
of which has been repaid:                  17.35            5,659.71            5,677.06
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:               1,094.75            1,251.39            2,346.14
Amount sold                      :                 0.00               50.99               50.99
Of which repaid               :                0.00               50.99               50.99
Total Undisbursed                :              619.42                 0.00              619.42
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 30-Jun-99.



Schedule D
Colombia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Jul-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1963/90               Coltejer                6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.32    0.00    0.00    0.00
1969/85/88/93/95      CF del Valle            0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00
1977/89/92/94/96      Promigas               12.21    1.13    0.00   33.83   12.21    1.13    0.00   33.83
1981/85/87/89/91/92/94   Leasing Bolivar      4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987                  PRODESAL                0.00     .59    0.00    0.00    0.00      .59    0.00    0.00
1990/92               ODC                     2.89    0.00    0.00    6.77    2.89    0.00    0.00    6.77
1994/95               Corfinansa              0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.43    0.00    0.00
1995                  Corfinsura             13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.06    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/97               Icollantas             11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996                  Proyectos               9.64    5.00    0.00    0.00    4.17    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Suleasing              30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  Surenting               0.00    5.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                   89.12   20.68    0.00   40.60   61.08   18.08    0.00   40.60
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999                  CORFINSURA             25.00    0.00   25.00    0.00
1999                  HARKEN                 20.00    0.00   10.00   25.00
Total Pending Commitment:          45.00    0.00   35.00   25.00



- 50 -
Annex 7: Colombia At-a-Glance
Latin   Lower.-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           America   middle-    _        :           ._ -- _: .   _    _
Colombia   & CarHl    income       Development diamond'
1 998
Population, mid-year (millions)                       40.8       502       908                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                   2,600      3,940     1,710    1
GNP (Atlas method, LIS$ billions)                    106.1      1,978     1;557                       T
Average annual growth, 1992-98                                                                        T
Population (%)                                          1.9       1.6       1t1
Laborforce(%)                                          2.7        2.3       1.5     GNP                              Gross
Laborfo   '4)                     21         13        1~~~~~~~5    per                 -H primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                               capda                         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   13
Urban population (% of total population)                74        75        58
Life4expectancy at birth (years)                        70        70        68    |
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                24        32        38
Child malnutrition (%ex otchildren under 5)              8         a               !          Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                  75         75        75
lliteracy (% of population age 15+)                      9        13        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)'  113      113       103        "'Colombia
Male                                                 113         ..      105              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               112          .      100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      1998       :o-
GDP (US$ billions)                         :19.S      36.4      108.8    109.4
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                18.7     19.1       23.0      22. 
Exports of goods and serviceslGDP            16.9     17.0       13.9      13.9
Gross domestic savirns/GDP                   22.3     23.1       18.0      16.6                       7
Gross national savihgs/GDP                   211      21. 2      17.6      16.5
Current account balance/GDP                   1.9      -0.1      -5.4      -5 D7oms
Interest payments/GDP                         0.8      37        1'S        1 6                        Domestic  Investment
Total debt/GDP                               26.0    46.8        31.1      33.0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   10.7     39,1       47.3      48.5
Present value of debt/GOP                       .        ..      31.9      350
Present value of debt/exports                  ..       ..    235.0       268.I0e
Indebtedness
1977-87  1968-98     1997      1998   1999403
(a veage annual growth)
GDP                                  3.4      4.0      3.1        0.6       3.6    |   - Colombia
GNP per capita                       0.7      2.6      1.1       -1.3       1.7               Lower-middle-icome group
Exports of goods ant services        5.0      7.1      8.1       -4.8       8.3          !     oe7m7 d -icoe             -
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998      Growth ratea of output and investment 1%,
(% of GDP)s
Agriculture                                  25.0      17.4      14.1      14.5
Industry                                     30.3     34.8       29.0      27.1     30
Manufacturing                              23.9      20.3      14.2      13.8
Services                                     44.7     47.8       57.0      58.4    |1
Private consumption                          70.0     68.2       65.8      67.2            93   94   9s   96   97   98
General govemment consumption                 7.7      8.7       16.2      16.3
Imports of goods and services                13.3     12.9       19.4      19.6
(averageannualgrowt)1977-87  11988-98  1997  1998  Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   2.5       1.7       0.2       0.6    53 
Industry                                      4.1      2.3        1.3      -2.3     40
Manufactunng                                 2.5      1.7       2.5       0.0    27
Services                                      3.4      5.7        3.6       2.4
13 I 
Private consumption                           2.9      4.0        3.7       1.9     a
General government consumption                5.I      7.6       23.7    -14.9             93   94   s5   so   97
Gross domestic investment                     2.3      14.0       3.5         .    13
Imports of goods and services                 2.5     16.0        4.4       1.5               -Exports    -    Imports
Gross national product                        2.9      3.9        3.1      -2.5
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



- 51 -                                                  Annex 7
Colombia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998     Inflation
Domestic prices                                                                    3
(% change)
Consumer prices                              32.7     23.3       18.6     18.7                              2
Implicit GDP deflator                        29.2     23.4       17.0     17.5        I
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                 a
Current revenue                                 ..    22.2       27.7     27.6             93   94   95    96   97
Current budget balance                         ..      5.5        6.5       5.7         - GDP deflator    0CPI
Overall surplusldeficrt                        ..      0.0       -3.8      -3.7
TRADE
(US$ millions)                               1977    1987       1997      1998      Export and import levels (US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                         2,660    5,254    12,057    11,358      6
Coffee                                     1,498    1,633     2,259     1,915     14000                            _
Hydrocarbons                                105    1,342      2,707    2,387      12,00
Manufactures                               1,025    1,556     5,293     5,614     10000
Total Imports (cif)                         1,970    3,793    14,409    14,836      8000
Food                                          .        ..     1,728               4,000' "9
Fuel and energy                             136      148        240               4, 000
Capital goods                               664    1,381      5,561     5,680        0
Export price index (1995=100)                   6       26       126       112            9
Import price index (1995=100)                   3       26       123       116              SExports      mImpors
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     178      103        102       96
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJS$ millions)                              1977     1987      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services               3,378    6,421     14,238    13,339     3-
lmportsofgoodsandservices                   2,736    5,751     18,399    17,468    12
Resource balance                              642      670    -4,161    -4,129                                              I
Net income                                   -313   -1,692    -2,371    -2,187     -1  92
Net currant transfers                          49    1,001       640       407      2
Current account balance                       378      -21    -5,892    -5,909    -4            I     11
Financing items (net)                       -1,280      43      5,982    4,454      6
Changes in net reserves                       902      -22        -90     1,455    -71
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..    9,611      8,397
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             36.8   242.6    1,141.0   1,426.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998
(USS millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        5,053   17,023    33,865   36,084
IBRD                                        716    4,111      1,723    1,740                        A 1,723
IDA                                          22       17        10         9              G: 5,759        B: 10
Total debt service                            379    2,830      7,131     6,853                                    4,417
IBRD                                         93      618       573
IDA                                           0        1         1E ,3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              15       18        85
Official creditors                           65      232       -456
Private creditors                           121    -318       4,053
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..    5,574      3,192
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..       593      -286
F: 20,418
World Bank program
Commitments                                 281      180        28       132      A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                85      395       147       185      B- IDA    D - Other mulblateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         41      279       380       232      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    45      116       -233      -47      '
Interest payments                            53      268       150       115
Net transfers                                -8    -152        -383     -162
Development Economics                                                                                                  9/3/99



