                                                                                                          87524
                      international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
                               International Development Association
                                 International Finance Corporation
                             Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
                                           FOR OFFICl.\L USE ONLY

                                           CONFIDENTIAL
                                                                                                 EDS99-331
                                                                                           November 18, 1999
                                                                                                09:22:02AM

         Statement by Khaled M. Al-Aboodi
         Date ofMeeting: November 18, 1999

                             COLOMBIA: Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report
                                           Financial Sector Adjustment Loan

                   I have a number of comments on the two documents, starting with the CAS Progress
         Report.

                   It is clear that the Pastrana administration is intent on addressing seriously the difficult
         development challenges that it has inherited when it came into office in August a year ago.
         The preparation of the National Development Plan and Plan Colombia, and the stabilization
         measures it took immediately after taking office, attest to this. Nonetheless, despite these
         efforts, the economic situation continued to deteriorate -the fiscal and current account deficits
         widened, unemployment rose, and GDP growth fell sharply.

                 The agreement with the IMF on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for US$2. 7 billion is
         indeed encouraging. When implemented successfully, the EFF should reduce the fiscal deficit,
         bring down the current account deficit to levels that can be sustainably financed, strengthen the
         fmancial system, lower interest rates, and put the economy back on a sustainable growth path.
         In this context, I am pleased to note that the program would allow spending of about US$300
         million a year for three years on new social safety programs, which could be supported by the
         Bank and the IDB.

                 Of course, the difficult external environment, the recent earthquake in the coffee
         producing regions, and domestic violence, have all contributed to making economic
         ~agcment difficult, and to the deterioration in the macroeconomic framework and poverty
         Situation in the country. To this end, I support the main CAS objectives, which, as the
         progre!ls report states, remain valid. These are poverty reduction and social development; and
         SUStainable growth .


..
··~? This dl)l 11 111l2nt has a restrict~d distribution a..'ld may be used by recipients only in the\
     ~rfom 1 · 111 · ·~of their official dL:ti:::;;. I[s contents may not otherv..:ise be disclosed w·ithoutjl
•    ~\ orld 1\      ,     h . .
{                 '''· :1ut onz:1uon.
             Of course macroeconomic stabilization is a pre-requisite for achieving both objectives.
     In addition, poverty reduction would ultimately depend on the promotion of peace, and the
     development of the countryside. Sustainable growth would also depend on improving public
     sector management, removing infrastructure bottlenecks. The report indicates that progress on
     these fronts have been slow.

             Let me now turn to the Bank's lending strategy. The report recommends moving from
     the base case to the high case scenario. It cites some good reasons for doing so, including the
     difficult external environment, the recent earthquake, and the Government's commitment to
     undertake a serious fiscal adjustment program and structural reforms. However, my
     understanding is that moving to the higher case depends on performance and not on intentions.
     On this basis, it would be more appropriate to move to the low case. However, given that
     some of the reasons for poor performance are not under the control of the Government,
     staying in the base case would be justified. Waiting to see how the IMP program is
     implemented, to set a track record, before moving to the high case, would be more
     appropriate.

            Let me now turn to the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan. I can support the major
     elements of the operation, although the size of this operation is already much larger than the
     average for three years even in the high case.

            I particularly endorse the special economic emergency and earthquake relief programs
     supported under this operation. These would go a long way in helping the most vulnerable
     groups affected by the crisis, namely low-income mortgage borrowers and depositors in the
     cooperatives system. Clearly, the success of these programs will depend on the speed of
     bringing down real interest rates in the economy, and their level. I have noted, however, from
     paragraph 30 that there have been modifications to the decree issued by the Constitutional
     Court. I would like clarification from staff on the importance of these modifications.

            Finally, I wish the authorities success in addressing the difficult challenge of their
     development agenda .




..............--------------------------
