Report No. PID7856
Project Name                     Colombia-Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Finance
Program Objective Category       Economic Adjustment
Project ID                       COPA63643
Borrower                         Republic of Colombia
Implementing Agencies            Ministry of Finance, Central Bank,
Superintendency of Banks, FOGAFIN (deposit
insurance and bank resolution agency)
Date PID Revised                 May 10, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           March 6, 1999
Project Board Date               September 1999
Background
The Colombian banking system has historically developed under the
specialized banking model, with functions divided between commercial
banks, financial corporations , trade finance companies, savings and
loans associations, and a cooperatives sector. Following a significant
turmoil in the mid-1980's that led to closing and restructuring of some
major financial institutions, the sector has benefited from considerable
improvements in the prudential regulations, strengthened supervision,
and positive rates of economic growth. .A Banking Law approved in 1990
laid the basis for longer term improvements, incorporating significant
liberalization of the operations of the different types of financial
institutions, decreasing credit subsidies and forced investment
requirements, reducing financial system segmentation, and thus
increasing competition. Benefiting from these improvements, by the mid-
1990s, the financial system had largely recuperated its solvency and
stability. There has, however, been a considerable deterioration of the
situation over the last 12 months. The round of turbulence and
volatility in international capital flows which affected most emerging
economies in 1998 following the financial crises in East Asia and
Russia, including the resulting withdrawal of international commercial
lending from Latin America, and the austerity measures Colombia has
taken to counteract these, have notably weakened the system. Most
importantly, interest rates rose and stayed at extraordinary levels of
15-25% in real terms over much of the last 12-month period, stretching
the payment capacity of even the healthiest companies and individual
borrowers in the economy. Damage inflicted by a major earthquake in the
coffee growing region in early 1999 further strained Colombia's economy
and parts of the financial system The overall impact on some parts of
the system, such as the cooperatives, institutions engaged in housing
and construction finance, and the smaller trade and financial
institutions has been particularly severe. Reflecting this, reported
arrears in the loan portfolio of the total banking system have grown
sharply over the last year. Against this background, it is now



imperative for Colombia to further strengthen its monitoring and
supervision of the banking system, and put in place a modern deposit
insurance and problem bank resolution mechanism as a basis to overcome
the structural fragilities identified in the system and facilitate a
healthy longer term development of the financial sector.
Project Description
A $500 million FSAL is proposed to support a comprehensive program of
financial sector reform being coordinated by the Government of Colombia.
The loan is expected to be presented to the Board in FY00, and is
proposed to be disbursed in two tranches. Disbursement of the proceeds
would take place on the basis of an agreed "negative list". Among the
main program objectives are: (i) to support required changes in
financial sector legislation and regulations to facilitate strengthening
of bank supervision and deposit insurance and promote timely, fair and
efficient resolution of banks facing financial solvency problems; (ii)
institutional strengthening of the bank supervision agency and FOGAFIN,
the entity responsible for deposit insurance and bank resolution; (iii)
restructuring recapitalization, privatization and, if necessary,
liquidation of state owned and "officialized" banks currently under
public sector management; (iv) help effective implementation of
emergency measures to address the immediate impact on the financial
system stemming from macro-economic, international market and related
problems.
The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Corporation Andine de
Fomento (CAF) are also expected to provide complementary financing to
support the financial sector reform program.
Environment and Resettlement Aspects
No environmental or resettlement issues are raised by the proposed
financial sector reform program.
Contact Information:
Krishna Challa
Task Manager
(202) 473-0133
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 18, 1999.
- 2 -



