Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7000-CO
Loan Agreement
(Financial Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December 2, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 7000 - CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 2, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
September 22, 1999 (the Policy Letter), describing a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve adjustment of the Borrower’s 
financial sector (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution 
thereof; and
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has 
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the 
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 
1, 1999, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to 
the Loan Agreement, in 
support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of 
the Loan from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of 
the Loan Agreement and of these General 
Conditions”;
(c)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be  agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Loan Agreement, 
the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(e)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(b)
"FOGAFIN" means Fondo de Garantías de Instituciones 
Financieras, the Borrower's Guarantee Fund for Financial Institutions.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount 
equal to four hundred eighty-two million three hundred thousand Euro 
(EUR482,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) 
and (d) of this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the 
amount of four hundred seventy-seven million four hundred seventy-seven 
thousand Euro (EUR477,477,000) from the Loan Account in support of the 
Program.
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the 
first request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in Euro on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at 
any time that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been used to make a 
payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an amount 
equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank.  Amounts refunded to the Bank 
upon such request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation.
(d)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account after the 
aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account 
shall have reached the amount of two hundred forty-three million five 
hundred sixty-one thousand five hundred Euro (EUR243,561,500), unless the 
Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; and (iii) that 
the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have been taken in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank.  If, after said exchange of 
views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the progress 
achieved and actions taken are not satisfactory, or that the 
macroeconomic framework is not consistent with the objectives of the 
Program, and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not 
have achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, or the 
macroeconomic framework has not become consistent with the objectives of 
the Program, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in 
an amount equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The 
Borrower agrees that, on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to 
time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent 
(0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to accrue 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum 
thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Variable Rate; provided, that upon 
Page  4
a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the 
following Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate 
prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion 
of the principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all 
or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from 
a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable 
to all or any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an 
Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section that is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, 
as defined in Section 2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be 
effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that, unless 
otherwise notified by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of 
the Conversion Guidelines, whenever withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall have been made in the separate aggregate amounts of two hundred 
forty-three million five hundred sixty-one thousand five hundred Euro 
(EUR243,561,500) and two hundred thirty-eight million seven hundred 
thirty-eight thousand five hundred Euro (EUR238,738,500), respectively, 
the interest rate basis applicable to each such amount of the Loan shall 
be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity thereof in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines, provided, however, 
that, unless the Bank shall otherwise determine, the Execution Date of 
any such Conversion shall not be prior to February 1, 2000.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, requests for Conversion, other than that agreed upon in 
paragraph (c) of this Section, shall not be furnished to the Bank prior 
to February 1, 2000, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank.
Section 2.10. The Sub-Director de Ejecución of the Public Credit 
General Directorate of the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Public 
Credit, and any person he or she may designate in writing, are designated 
as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action 
required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of 
Page  5
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to 
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Program and the actions specified in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Program, in such detail as the Bank 
shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan which 
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or 
a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional 
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the 
macroeconomic framework of the Borrower is consistent with the objectives 
of the Program.
Section 5.02. The date March 1, 2000 is hereby specified for the 
Page  6
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Palacio de los Ministerios
Plaza San Agustín
Carrera 7a, No. 6-45, Piso 3
Santa Fé de Bogotá
Colombia
Cable address:
Telex:
MINHACIENDA
43289 MHAC CO
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the city of Santafé de Bogotá, Colombia, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
By /s/ Andrés Pastrana Arango
   /s/ Juan Camilo Restrepo
Authorized Representatives
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrés Solimano
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  7
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of 
the Loan shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures:
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which 
any national or international financing institution or agency other than 
the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or 
which the Bank or the Association shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or 
subgroups of the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, 
Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or 
subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank 
by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured 
(whether or not
containing tobacco 
substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   -
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel 
elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated, for
nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing 
machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum
group metals (except 
watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold
Page  8
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or for luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of 
this paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, 
the manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of 
the Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a 
party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a 
member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or 
entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited 
by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to 
remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the 
Loan and the percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable 
on each Principal Payment Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of 
the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower 
on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such repayment amount 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each May 15 and November 15
Beginning May 15, 2005 
through May 15, 2016
4.17%
On November 15, 2016
4.09%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan 
repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall 
repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as of such date in accordance 
Page  9
with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date 
shall be repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of 
such withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum 
of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates 
falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal 
amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn 
and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date following the date 
of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of 
withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this 
paragraph 3, if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing 
system under which invoices are issued on or after the respective 
Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no 
longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing 
system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this 
Schedule, upon a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the 
withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved Currency, the 
amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on 
any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall 
be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved 
Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction 
relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of 
the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the 
provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount 
denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 3
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement
1.
Regulations and/or administrative procedures required for the 
implementation of the Borrower's Decree No. 663/93, which establishes the 
framework for the Borrower's financial sector (
Estatuto Orgánico, as 
amended by the Borrower's Laws No. 454/98 and 510/99), have been put into 
effect in a manner consistent with the principles set forth in Attachment 
4 to the Policy Letter.
2.
The Estatuto Orgánico, regulations and administrative procedures 
referred to in paragraph 1 above are being implemented on a consistent 
Page  10
basis, in accordance with their terms.
3.
The plan for the institutional strengthening of the Borrower's 
Superintendency of Banks, described in Attachment 5 to the Policy Letter, 
is being implemented in accordance with its terms.
4.
The plan for the institutional strengthening of FOGAFIN, described 
in Attachment 6 to the Policy Letter, is being implemented in accordance 
with its terms.
5.
(a) Banco del Estado - BANESTADO, Banco Central Hipotecario, Banco 
Cafetero - BANCAFE, Corporación Grancolombiana de Ahorro y Vivienda - 
Granahorrar, and Banco Uconal have been brought to the point of sale, for 
purposes of being privatized, or the liquidation thereof has been 
initiated; and (b) the plan for the restructuring, privatization, 
recapitalization or liquidation of the financial institutions referred to 
in (a) above, described in Attachment 2 to the Policy Letter, has been 
implemented in accordance with its terms.
6.
A study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, has 
been completed on options to rationalize and increase the efficiency of 
second-tier financial institutions.
7.
The plan for the resolution of financial cooperatives, described in 
Attachment 3 to the Policy Letter, is being implemented in accordance 
with its terms.
8.
(a) The funding for FOGAFIN's special activities established by the 
Borrower's Decrees No. 2331/98, 415/99, 195/99, 197/99 and 350/99 has 
continued to be separated from the funding for FOGAFIN's mainstream 
financial institution resolution and banking deposit insurance 
activities; and (b) an amount in the Borrower's currency, equivalent to 
two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000) has been made available to 
FOGAFIN for purposes of FOGAFIN's  financial institution resolution 
and/or banking deposit insurance activities.
9.
The Borrower's Decrees No. 2331/98, 415/99, 195/99, 197/99, 350/99 
and 836/99, governing the Borrower's relief programs for housing mortgage 
debtors, FOGAFIN's credit programs for asset management and 
securitization companies, and FOGAFIN's programs to re-capitalize 
financial institutions, any administrative procedures required for the 
implementation of such Decrees, and any regulations governing other 
relief programs of the Borrower for borrowers and financial institutions 
are being implemented in a manner consistent with the objectives of the 
Program.
10.
The Borrower has put into effect rules to ensure that the full cost 
in real terms of new housing loans is transparent, and that indexing 
mechanisms for such loans are designed to ensure sustainable payment 
capacity by borrowers.
