                                 Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                     Report No.: 40139




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENTREPORT


                          REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA

    FINANCIAL MARKETS DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
                                  PROJECT
                            (TF-22479;SCL-41960)

                 FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENTLOAN
                                 (FSLT-70000)

    FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIALSECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                              (LoanNo. 7167-CO)

  SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIALSECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                            (TF-52531;FSLT-72580)

                                 June 26,2007




CountyEvaluation and Regional Relations
Independent Evaluation Group

                  CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)

                   (ExchangeRate Effective February 2,2006)




                            US$1 =2,268.60 COP

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1-December 31




Abbreviationsand Acronyms

CAF       Corporation Andina de Fomento
EFF       Extended Fund Facility
FMDTA     Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance Loan
FOGAFIN   Deposit Guarantee Fund
FIRST     Financial Sector Reform and Strengthening
FSAL      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
ICR       ImplementationCompletion Report
IDB       Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
IDF       InstitutionalDevelopment Fund
IEG       Independent Evaluation Group
IEPS      Initial Executive Project Summary
IFC       International Finance Cooperation
IF1       InternationalFinance Institution
IMF       InternationalMonetary Fund
MoF       Ministry of Finance
PFSAL     Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
PPAR      Project Performance Assessment Report
PSR       Project Status Report
SB        Superintendencia de Bancos (Superintendencyof Banks)
SBC       Superintendencyof Banks
sv        SuperintendenciaJdevalores (Superintendencyof Securities)
TA        Technical Assistance

                                                                                       FOR OFFTCTAL USE ONLY



          IEG Mission: Enhancing development effectivenessthrough excellence and independence in evaluation.


       About this Report
              The Independent EvaluationGroup assessesthe programs and activitiesof the World Bank for two purposes:
       first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocess and to verifythat the Bank's work is producingthe
       expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough the
       disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience. As partof this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percent of the
       Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are innovative,
       large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcoming studiesor country evaluations; those for which Executive
       Directorsor Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likelyto generate importantlessons.
       The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluationstudies.
              A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR)is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
       Report (a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
       PPARs, IEG staff examine project files and other documents, interview operationalstaff, and in most cases visit
       the borrowing country for onsitediscussionswith project staff and beneficiaries. The PPARthereby seeks to
       validate and augment the informationprovided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
       IEG studies.
              Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
       PPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank department and amended as necessary. The completedPPAR is then
       sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
       Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


       About the IEG Rating System
              The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suitedto the broad rangeof the World Bank's work. The
       methods offer both rigor and a necessarylevel of flexibilityto adapt to lendinginstrument,projectdesign, or
       sectoralapproach. IEG evaluators all applythe same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
       the definitionand rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion(more informationis available on the IEGwebsite:
       http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
              Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's
       currentdevelopment prioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
       goals (expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistanceStrategies,Sector Strategy Papers,
       Operational Policies).Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
              Efficacy: The extent to which the project'sobjectives were achieved, or expectedto be achieved, taking into
       account their relative importance. Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
              Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
       opportunity cost of capitaland benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possibleratings: High. Substantial,
       Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
              Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefits flows over time. Possibleratings: HighlyLikely, Likely,
       Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
              lnstitutionalDevelopment Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
       to make more efficient, equitable and sustainableuse of its human,financial, and naturalresourcesthrough: (a)
       better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsand/or (b)
       better alignment of the missionand capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
       institutionalarrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includes both intendedand unintendedeffects of a
       project. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,Modest, Negligible.
              Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expectedto be
       achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory.Moderately
       Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
             Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
       supported implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuringadequatetransition arrangements
       for regular operation of the project). Possibleratings: Highly Satisfactory. Satisfactory. Unsatisfactory, Highly
       Unsatisfactory.
             Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
       quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements,towards the
       achievementof development objectivesand sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory,
       Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


Contents

Principal Ratings     ................................................................................................................v
                              .....................................................................................................vn  ..
Key Staff Responsible

Preface...............................................................................................................................ix

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................xi

1. Introduction      ..................................................................................................................1

                The Fiscal Roots of the Crisis......................................................................                   1
                 Colombia's Financial Sector in the Early 1990s..........................................                              2


2 The Financial Crisis: 1998-99
 .                                               .....................................................................................3

                 Onset of the Crisis........................................................................................           3
                 Government Response ................................................................................                 -3
                Bank Response.............................................................................................             5


3 The Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance Project
 .                                                                                                              .......................7

                Analytical and Financial Support. 1993-97.................................................                             7
                Project Preparation. Objectives and Design.................................................                            7
                Implementation..........................................................................................              10
                Assessment and Outcomes.........................................................................                      10


4 The Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FYOO)
 .                                                                            ......................................................17

                Preparation. Objectives and Design.......................................................... 7                      1
                Implementation.........................................................................................             -20
                Assessment and Outcomes.........................................................................                     21


5 The Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loans I and I1
 .                                                                                                          .........................26

                Introduction................................................................................................         26
                PFSAL I: Preparation. Design and Implementation..................................                                    28
                PFSAL 11:Preparation. Design and Implementation.................................31
                Assessment of the Program........................................................................34


6 Lessons
.           ........................................................................................................................36

Annex A Basic Data Sheet
        .                  ..............................................................................................39

Annex B .Key  Objectives  ................................................................................................47

Annex C List of People Met
        .                      ..........................................................................................53

Tables

Table 5.1: Main Economic Indicators...............................................................................       30
Table 5.2. Banking Sector Indicators................................................................................     30

Principal Ratings

Financial Markets Development TechnicalAssistance (TF-22479; SCL-41960)
                                          ICR*                 ICR Review**                       PPAR

Outcome                               Satisfactory              Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                     Likely                        Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment              Substantial                Substantial                     Modest
lmpact
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory              Satisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                  Satisfactory              Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory



Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSLT-70000)
                                          ICR*                 ICR Review**                       PPAR

Outcome                            Highly Satisfactory           Moderately                   Satisfactory
                                                                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                Non-evaluable                      Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment                  High                     Modest                     Substantial
lmpact
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory               Satisfactory         Moderately Unsatisfactory

Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory



First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 71674'0)
                                          ICR*                 ICR Review**                       PPAR

Outcome                               Satisfactory               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                     Likely                        Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment              Substantial                Substantial                  Substantial
lmpact

Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory                 Satisfactory



Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TF-52531; FSLT-72580)
                                          ICR*                  ICR Review*                       PPAR

Outcome                               Satisfactory               Moderately             Moderately Satisfactory
                                                                 Satisfactory
Sustainability                           Likely                     Likely                        Likely
InstitutionalDevelopment              Substantial                Substantial                  Substantial
lmpact
Bank Performance                      Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory          Satisfactory                  Satisfactory


* The ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleoperationaldivisionof the Bank.
'*The ICR Review is an intermediateIndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) productthat seeks to independently verify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible


Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance (TF-22479; SCL-41960)
Project                 Task ManagedLeader      Sector Manager       Country Director

 Appraisal                 Andres D. Jaime      KrishnaChalla          Paul lsenman

 Completion                 John Pollner      John Pollner (Acting) IsabelM. Guerrero




Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSLT-70000)
Project                 Task ManagedLeader      Sector Manager       Country Director

         Appraisal          Krishna Challa    Augusto de la Torre*   Olivier Lafourcade

         Completion        Krishna Challa &    Fernando Montes-      Isabel Guerrero
                            John Pollner            Negret
* Lead Specialist




First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 7167 4 0 )
Project                 Task ManagedLeader      Sector Manager       Country Director

 Appraisal                  John Pollner       Fernando Montes-     IsabelM. Guerrero
                                                    Negret

 Completion                 John Pollner       Fernando Montes-     IsabelM. Guerrero
                                                    Negret




Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (TF-52531; FSLT-72580)
Project                 Task Manager/Leader     Sector Manager       Country Director

 Appraisal                  John Pollner        Danny Leipziger     Isabel M. Guerrero

 Completion                Constantinos A.       Makhtar Diop       Isabel M. Guerrero
                              Stephanou


Preface


       Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report for four loans to
Colombia: the Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance Loan (FMDTA), for
$15 million, approved in June 1997,the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) for
$500 million, approved in November 1999, and the Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loans I and 11(PFSAL Iand PFSAL II), for $150 and $100 million, approved
in April 2003 and September2004, respectively.

       An IndependentEvaluation Group (IEG) mission visited Colombia in November 2005
to discuss the effectiveness of Bank assistance with government officials,donors and other
stakeholders. Their cooperation and assistancein preparing this report is gratefully
acknowledged

       Comments from the Bank's Regional Management were incorporated in the
report. Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR was sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. No comments were
received.

       This report was prepared by Mr. Manuel Penalver (Consultant)under the
supervision of Ms. Laurie Effron and Chad Leechor. Roziah Baba, Janice Joshi and
Agnes Santos provided administrative support.


Summary

1.      Attached is the Project Performance Assessment Report for four loans to
Colombia: the Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance Loan (FMDTA), for
$15 million, approved in June 1997,the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) for
$500 million, approved in November 1999, and the Programmatic Financial Sector
Adjustment Loans I and II (PFSAL I and PFSAL II), for $150 and $100 million, approved
in April 2003 and September2004, respectively. The FSAL, PFSAL I and PFSAL I1
were all designed to support Colombia's financial sector in the aftermath of the economic
and financial crisis that affected the country in 1998-99.

2.      Colombia experienced a rollercoasterof events on the economic front during the
decade covered by the four loans. At the beginning of the 1990s,Colombia was
recovering from economic difficulties in the 1980s,which had included a banking sector
crisis. By 1993,the economywas growing; the banking sector was profitable and
appeared strong, though the financial sector and the capital markets in particular were
less developed than in other countries at a similar level of development. At the same
time, important risks to the soundness of the financial sector were developing. One was
changes in the indexation system for housing loans starting in the early 1990swhich put
borrower's and the lenders' portfolios at risk. Another was the increasingly poor
performance of (and corruption in) the government-ownedbanks. A third was the
increasing fiscal deficits since 1990.

3.      Bank analytical work in the financial sector focused on the development of capital
markets (including preparation of the FMDTA). By mid-1998, growing fiscal and
current account deficits were aggravated by the changed international environmentthat
prevailed following the East Asia crisis in mid-1997. Attempts by the Central Bank to
support the exchange rate aggravated the crisis: interest rates mounted to extremelyhigh
levels, and the fiscal and external difficultieswere translated into a fiscal crisis as
borrowers were unable to service their loans and the banks' portfolios, liquidity and,
eventually, solvency deteriorated. This resulted in a full-scale economic and financial
                                         -
crisis in 1998-99.

4.      Design of the FMDTA was based on an optimistic diagnostic of country and
sector conditions that had already changed by the time of approval. The growing risks to
the financial sector during the 1990swere absent from the Bank's analysis: relevance
was negligible when the crisis broke out. Implementation was slow, lasting six years,
and nearly half of the loan amount was cancelled. Relevance during the last two years of
the loan was higher (after some restructuring) as some of the components were used to
support recovery efforts from the crisis. The outcome of FMDTA is rated moderately
unsatisfactory.

5.      The Colombian governmentrequested Bank assistance in the form of emergency
adjustment lending immediately after a new administration took office in August 1998.
But lack of preparedness on the Bank's side, and the rapidly deteriorating situation in late
1998and early 1999,made the preparation of the FSAL a longer process than the

government had anticipated in late 1998. In early 1999the Bank decided that its support
should not be through an emergency SAL but through a more conventional, two tranche
FSAL, and the Bank and Fund agreed to carry out their firstjoint FSAP in Colombia.

6.       The FSAL was approved in late 1999. By that time, the worst of the crisis was
over, but the damage to the financial sector and the economy had already been
substantial. The government had introduced several rounds of measures from November
1998to late 1999that were successful in avoiding a systemic crisis, although many
financial institutions were closed down, and others merged or were taken over by the
government. The deposit guarantee fund (FOGAFIN)became also a banking resolution
agency. The several sub-sectors in the financial sector were affected differently: the
mortgage banks, credit cooperatives and public sector banks were the hardest hit by the
crisis while private sector commercialbanks remained comparatively strong. Although
the Bank's approval of the FSAL was not timely in terms of containing the worst of the
crisis, it was nevertheless important in the recovery from the crisis and in laying the
foundations to reduce risks and vulnerabilities that could cause a repeat of the problems.
By the time of the FSAL tranche second release (late 2000), the internationalmarkets had
improved, and the government requested that the second tranche of the FSAL be
converted into a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) to facilitateborrowing in the
international markets. The Bank agreed and a PBG was approved in February 2001. In
spite of the initial delays and underestimation of the importance of the crisis in the early
period of preparation, relevance of FSAL was substantial and its outcome is rated
satisfactory.

7 .      The 2002 country assistance strategy discussed the financial sector in detail,
including a proposed support program to be provided through two PFSALs, for $150
million each (in FY03 and FY04). The program addressed the "mopping up" of issues
still pending from the earlier crisis, including financial distress by some institutions,
resolution and privatization of public and "officialized" banks, a new legislative
framework for the banking sector, as well for the rest of the financial sector and the
securities market, new prudential regulations, supervision and surveillance, and
institutional support and developmentfor the public agencies in the sector.

8.       PFSAL I was approved in April 2003 and achieved most of its objectives in the
context of a rapidly improving economic environment: GDP growth in 2003 was well
above the country strategy and other projections (4 percent instead of the 2 percent
projected) and the fiscal deficit was reduced. The improving economic conditions
facilitated substantiallythe achievement of the "mopping up" component of the PFSAL I,
whereas other areasprogressed at different speed: improvementsin housing finance and
in private capital markets developmentfell short of expectations. In spite of these
shortcomings,relevance of PFSAL I was substantial and its outcomeis rated as
satisfactory.

9.       Country economic and financial sector conditions had improved furtherby the
time of approval of PFSAL I1in September2004: the program document notes that high
capital inflows in early 2004 were causing an appreciationof the peso in spite of the
Central Bank attemptsto prevent it by lowering interest rates and accumulating,reserves.

With the financial sectorrecovery well under way as shown by its indicators of
profitability and solvency, PFSAL I1focused on legislative,regulatory and institutional
development issues as well as remaining vulnerabilities and the lack of recovery of
housing finance,particularly for low income housing. Given the medium term nature of
many of these objectives (and the availability of other capital inflows) a single-tranche
adjustment operationwas not an obvious choice to support their achievement. In the
event, improvementsin the regulatory environmentof the banking system took place, but
improvementsin housing finance failed once again to materialize and were very limited
in the private capital markets area. The relevance of PFSAL I1was modest and its
outcome moderately satisfactory.

10.     The medium term aspects of the financial sector support program contemplatedin
the country assistance strategy would have been better served by a programmatic
approach covering a longer period of time, (e.g., five years instead of the two
contemplatedby the FSALs), and includingnot only quick disbursing but also
accompanyinginstitutional development support through other instruments (TA loans,
IDF or FIRST grants). A longer framework for the program could also have provided
more flexibilityto adjust the later interventionsto the changing country conditions.

11.     Overall, the Bank's support to Colombia's financial sector has been positive and
the outcome of the three adjustment operationswas satisfactory, in spite of the relevance
issues related to PFSAL 11.The outcome of the earlier FMDTA, however, was
unsatisfactorybecause the project design was inadequate to address the issues facing the
sector at the time, and achievement of project objectiveswas hampered by the financial
sector crisis: Colombia's capital markets are arguably less developed now than at the
time of the approval of the FMDTA. Yet, even in this case, the last few years of the
FMDTA provided support for institutional developmentof the sector, in parallel to the
FSAL.

12.     Bank performance was satisfactory, except in the cases of the FMDTA and
FSAL. The re-emergence of a potential crisis situation during 2002, and Bank work on
the financial sector which found a significant agenda of unfinished business, warranted
substantialBank assistance. Itjustified the decision to support further reforms through
programmatic adjustment lending in 200312004. On the other hand, the 1997FMDTA
was poorly designed,without reference to the emerging internal risks, including macro-
economicrisks, and lacked relevance. In the early stages of preparation of the
1999FSAL, the Bank likewise underestimatedthe extent of the crisis, while, partly
because of a lack of preparedness to deal with financial crisis situations, its assistance
was delayed until after the worst of the crisis was over.

13.    Finally, throughout the implementation of the three adjustment operations, one
policy issue has remained pending: in the midst of the 1998-99crisis, the government
introduced a temporary tax on financial transactions that was intended to apply for
18months and to contribute to pay the costs incurred during the financial crisis. Several
years later, however, the financial transactions tax and the distortions it introduces in the
sector are still in place (at a higher rate that when originally introduced) and the issue
needs to be addressed.PFSAL 11, at a time when the fiscal situationwas improving

rapidly, seems to have been a major missed opportunity to eliminate the financial
transactions tax.

14.    The main lessons from these loans are:

           Accurate, up-to-date sector information and analytical knowledge is critical
           for an adequate support to thefinancial sector: an outdated assessmentof the
           sectorby 1997made the FMDTA irrelevant and blindsided the Bank to the
           vulnerabilities of the financial sector. It also slowed down the Bank's response
           after the onset of the crisis.

           Agility and quick reaction to crises requires adequate technical resources and
           streamlined decision-making: the Bank compounded its inadequateprior
           knowledge of the sector in 1998by allocating insufficient technicalhuman
           resources until thejoint FSAP was launched, and by slow and bureaucratic
           decision-makingin the face of urgent client demands.

           Agility,flexibility, and openness to change are also crucial during
           implementation of aproject orprogram: during implementation of FMDTA,
           the inadequate startingpoint could have been partly remedied by earlier and
           deeper restructuring to face the new conditions on the ground; during
           implementation of the FSALs, improved economic conditions and slow
           progress in some areas (housing finance, capital markets) could have been
           better addressed (even in the absence of a TA project) through a change in the
           second phase of the program (e.g. by splitting PFSAL I1into two smaller,
           more spaced operations implementedover a longer period of time).

           Exploiting the synergies among different Bank instruments is crucial:
           technical assistance operations and adjustment lending can reinforce each
           other when they are part of a coordinated sector intervention (and based on
           adequate analyticalwork). In Colombia, an outdated TA project was only
           belatedly and marginally linked to the FSAL; during the short period of the
           PFSALs (and after them) there was no TA vehicle on the ground to continue
           the support.

           A programmatic approach tofinancial sector reforms is likely to require a
           time horizon of several years to allowfor policy and institutional reforms to
           be translated into outcomes and results:the two-phase single year approach of
           the PFSALs was too short to address the complex second-andthird-generation
           issues facing Colombia's financial sector.




                                                                  Vinod Thomas
                                                                 Director-General
                                                                    Evaluation

1. Introduction

1.1     Colombia had a long history of prudent macroeconomic management until the
early 1990s,even in the face of periodic internal upheavals leading to civil strife and
violence. One indicator of the success of this management is that in the entire twentieth
century there were only two years with negative growth of GDP (1933 and 1999:the first
episode was a result of the Great Depression; the secondwas part of the 1998-99
financial crisis). Another indicator is that Colombia did not request IMF support between
the mid-1960s and 1999: and even during the most recent period, the Government of
Colombia has treated the Extended Fund Facility of 1999 and two subsequent Stand-By
Arrangements as precautionary, not drawing financial resources from any of them.

1.2     Colombia's economic growth, however, has only been modest, hovering for many
years at about 4 percent per year, with some episodes of substantiallylower growth. At
the same time, the financial sector has been less developed than that of other middle-
income countries (e.g. in terms of monetary aggregates as a share of GDP), and has
experienced several episodes of crisis during the last two decades. The modest economic
growth is an indication of the lost opportunities of the Colombian economy that, today, is
still hovering in the mid-range of the middle-income countries and has been unable to
provide its population with a substantial and sustained increase in its standard of living.

1.3     During the last ten years, Colombia has experienced several episodes of economic
difficulties. Althoughparallel in timing to the crises in East Asia, Russia and other Latin
American countries,the Colombian economic difficulties have been at least as much the
result of internal factors as of external shocks in the mid- and late-1990s. In the most
recent years, the impact of external factors has been largely positive (particularly the
increases in oil prices) which has facilitated the resolution of the crises without the need
to recourse to IMF financing. These positive external factors (which included high
inflows of foreign capital starting in the early 1990s,and again in the last two years),
however, have reduced the urgency to address some of the root causes of the difficulties
(particularlythe structural fiscal deficit) and may have left the Colombian economy
exposed to further difficulties after the windfall effects of high oil prices disappear,
together with the expected decline in Colombia's oil production in the coming years.


The Fiscal Roots of the Crisis

1.4     The main source of Colombia's economic difficulties in the 1990s and early
2000s was fiscal. During the two successive administrationsof Presidents Gaviria (1990-
94) and Samper (1994-98)there was a continuing increase in public sector expenditures
as a share of GDP, which increased from 21 percent to 28 percent in 1994 and 32 percent
in 1998.The public sector accounts,which were largely in balance by the early 1990s,
were showing a deficit of 2.6 percent of GDP in 1996and 4 percent in 1997.An
important source of the fiscal difficulties, in addition to the increase in expenditures, was
the constitutionalchanges of 1991,which allocated increasing amounts of fiscal revenues
to sub-national,entities, thus limiting the resources available to the central government.

1.5      The twin increases in public expenditure and in the fiscal deficit were easily
financed in the expansionaryclimate that characterizedthe early and mid-1990s, with
large increases in foreign capital inflows to developing countries. Colombia, with a
reputation for good financial management, had little difficulty in attracting the large
capital inflows it needed to finance its fiscal deficits. The Asian crisis in 1997followed
by the Russian one in 1998 led to an overall drop in capital flows to developing countries
as well as higher spreads on internationallendingto developing countries. These factors
combinedwith declining prices for Colombia's exports put pressure on the peso. In this
context, the large and growing fiscal deficits led to strong pressures on domestic interest
rates and were one of the major causes of the resulting financial sector crisis.


Colombia's Financial Sector in the Early 1990s

1.6      Colombia's financial sector had experienceda banking crisis in the 1980s,but
was generally considered fully recovered, although still small and highly concentrated,by
the early 1990s. Financial sector policies after the early crisis had introduced a number
of improvements,including recapitalizationof banks, elimination of (or substantial
reductions in) forced investment requirementsby the banks, and promotion of
competition (including entry of foreignbanks). Other improvements took place during
the 1990-94period, including a pension reform in 1993,institutional improvements in the
Superintendencyof Banks (SBC) and privatization of some banks previously taken over
by the government during the 1980sbanking crisis.

1.7      By the mid-1990s,the financial sector was considered,both in Colombia and in
the Bank, a sectormoving towards further strengtheningand deepening, which only
required assistanceto consolidate previous gains and to introduce greater diversification
of financial services. The small size and high concentrationwere expected to be
addressedby the twin demand and supply factors of increasing demand for financial
assets, as confidence in the sector continued to increase, and by the entry of new
institutions (including foreign banks). The still relatively large share of the public sector
in the financial sector was considered a minor cause for concern, to be gradually
addressed.

1.8      The above assessment of the financial sector is reflected in the main Bank
documentsof the period, including the Financial Sector Review of 1993,the Capital
Markets Report of 1996,the Financial Markets Development TA Project of 1997(the
first of the four projects included in this PPAR), and the mid-1990s country assistance
strategy. Yet, this view of the financial sector as a basically sound sector that required
only "high end" assistance on the more sophisticatedaspects of instruments, institutions
and regulationwas to be shattered within less than a year of the approval of the FMDTA
project. In addition to the prevailing fiscal problems, two other internal sources of risk to
financial sector soundness were: the increasinglypoorer performance of (and corruption
in) the government-ownedbanks; and, changes in the indexation system for housing
loans startingin the early 1990swhich put borrowers and the lenders' portfolios at risk.

2.      The Financial Crisis: 1998-99

Onset of the Crisis

2.1     The gradual deteriorationof Colombia's economic performance since the mid-
1990s(fiscal deficits above 4 percent of GDP, current account deficits exceeding 5
percent of GDP and growth slowingdown to about 2 percent) came to a head in 1998,
aggravatedby internal (political) and external factors (declines in oil and coffee prices,
tightening of internationalcredit markets). In the financial sector, rising interest rates
were weakening the portfolio of the mortgage financing institutions, and poor lending
practices in the publicly owned banks added to the vulnerabilities of the sector. The
tightening of international credit markets, and the initial governmentresponses,
particularly regarding exchangerate policy, came as an additional shock in 1998.

2.2     In early 1998economic activitywas slowing down, the banking portfolios were
showing some signs of distress, the fiscal deficit was rising, and the Colombianpeso was
under pressure: the Central Bank's attempts to support it (with only minor adjustmentsto
the exchange rate band) in the run up to the May presidential elections led to a loss of
reserves of $250 million. More importantly,interest rates increased to very high levels in
real terms. In addition, although Colombiahad initially maintained a good international
credit rating, following the East Asian crisis and the Russian default of August 1998
(when the new Colombian governmenttook office), the spreads on international loans
grew to more than 900 basis points (bsp).

2.3     In the financial sector, the combination of high fiscal deficits, credit demand from
sub-national levels of government(including municipalities) and the private sector, and
the tightening of international capital markets led to a rapid increase in (real) interest
rates on loans from about 14percent in late 1997to around 26 percent in late 1998.The
combination of high interest rates and slowing economic activity led to a deterioration of
the loan portfolio of many financial institutions, as borrowers were increasingly unable to
service their loans promptly. The resulting increase in the arrears reported by the
financial institutions, however, was underestimatedbecause of weak financial sector
supervision and the reluctance of financial institutions to fully report the volume of their
poor performing loans.


Government Response

2.4     In August 1998,when President Pastrana's government took office, the extent of
the country's economic difficulties was clear in terms of the slowing down in economic
activity, increasing unemployment (nearly 17percent in urban areas in late 1998),a
growing fiscal deficit and a continuinglarge current account deficit. The extent of the
financial crisis was less evident because of the underestimation of arrears by the financial
institutions, although an ongoing review of banking supervision practices had raised
serious alarms and the incoming governmentwas alerted to the risks.

2.5      Shortly after taking office, the governmentintroduced a package of fiscal
measures, including a reduction of (budgeted) expenditures for the year of 0.5 percent of
GDP, and a fiscal package to increase revenues by about 1percent of GDP. Revenue
measures, however, required congressional approval and were to take effect mostly in
1999.At about the same time (September 1998)the Central Bank widened the exchange
rate band, which resulted in a devaluation of about 6 percent.

2.6      In parallel, the new governmenttook a new approach in its relations with the
international financial institutions and requested large increases in financing by the
World Bank, the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IDB) and the Corporation Andina
de Fomento (CAF), while remaining opposed to entering into an agreement with the IMF
(the IMF was providing "enhanced surveillance" through semi-annualreviews, but
Colombia was keen on staying away from formal IMF programs, the last of yhich had
taken place in the 1960s).' The first requests for increased assistanceby the Bank took
place during a programmingmission in September 1998,at the Annual Meetings in early
October, and again during a meeting between President Pastrana and Mr. Wolfensohn in
late October 1998.

2.7      The seriousnessof the financial sector situationbecame increasingly evident as
financial sector arrears mounted and a large mortgage-financinginstitution was
intervenedby the government (in October 1998).This prompted the government to
prepare a package of emergency measures, approved by Decree, in November 1998,to
deal with the growing financial cri~is.~

2.8      The November 1998emergencymeasures included relief measures for low
income mortgage borrowers (refinancing at preferential interest rates) and small
depositors, and other measures to help with problems related to problem mortgage loans,
as well as support measures for public banks, financial cooperativesand private banks.
All of these measures, however, were subject to ratification by the Constitutional Court.
To provide financing for the relief measures, the governmentintroduced a temporary
financial transactionstax, effective through December 31, 1999.During the second half
of 1998,the government also had to intervene and take over two medium size private
credit institutions (an S&L institution and a cooperative), as well as several other smaller
cooperatives, an early indication that further such interventionswould become necessary.

2.9      In early 1999the crisis continued and additional government measures became
necessary. Following the ratification by the Constitutional Court (in March 1999)of
some, but not all, the November emergency measures, the government announced a new
program for recapitalizing distressed banks in April: the program went into effect in June
1999.By that time, the financial sector distress was widespread, total losses in the
financial sector were mounting (although largely concentratedin the mortgage banks and

' The Pastrana government was also keen to be seen as not influenced by the IMF because of political
reasons, and particularly as it embarked into an ambitious peace initiative with the guerrillas.
 By that time, the discussions with the World Bank had already focused on the preparation of a Financial
Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL), which the government requested on a priority basis and expected to have
available in early 1999(and possibly as a "Special SAY). Eventually this became the FSAL approved in
November 1999.

publicly owned banks), and Standard and Poor's had downgraded the ratings of the four
leadingprivate banks.

2.10    By mid-1999the country's sovereign risk had also been downgraded,the Central
Bank had introduced yet anothersmall discrete adjustment in the exchangerate band, and
the government had starteddiscussions with the IMF on an EFF program. The government
also introduced (and Parliament approved) a new Financial SystemFramework Law, and
closed one of the public banks (CajaAgraria). Later in the year (September)the Central
Bank abandoned the exchangerate band and moved to a free float.

2.11    During 1999,economic activity slowed down substantially, with GDP registering
a decline of more than 4 percent. The recession helped reduce the level of interest rates
from their peak in early 1998 and also helped reduce inflation from its historical levels of
more than 20 percent during the previous three decades. The worst of the financial crisis
was over by early 2000 as confirmed by an FSAL supervision mission.


Bank Response

2.12     During the early 1990s,in an environmentof easily available private financing-in
internationalmarkets, Colombia had reduced its borrowings fiom the World Bank, and
was graduallyreducing total outstanding loans from the bank. The mid-1990s country
assistance strategy assumed these trends would continue, and missed the vulnerabilities
arising from the large fiscal and current account deficits in a different external credit
situation. The strategy (four months after the devaluation of the Thai baht, that signaled
the end of the 1990-97period of growingprivate capital flows to developing countries),
was written at a time when Colombia's growth had declined, fiom 5.4 percent in 1995to
just over 2 percent in 1996,the current account deficit was about 5 percent in the
previous 4 years and the fiscal deficit turned from about 0 in the 1991-94 period, to
nearly 3 percent of GDP in 1996.

2.13     The mid-1990scountry assistance strategydiscussed the potential risks of the
above trends, but reached an optimistic assessment,based on expected sharp increase in
oil production and the turn around in growth after the second trimester of 1997.In the
event, GDP growth slowed down to less than 1percent in 1998and turned strongly
negative in 1999.In other words, the Bank's vision of Colombia in late 1997was that, in
spite of a continuing deterioration in the fiscal performance,the economy would rebound
strongly and that Colombia's previous access to external capital markets would continue
at a pace that had made borrowing from the Bank unne~essary.~

2.14    The financial sector was largely absent from the mid-1990s country assistance
strategy. The FMDTA project had been approved a few months before the country
strategy discussion and, with no other financialoperations in the pipeline, the financial
sectorwas only mentioned in passing when discussingthe IFC program. The six


 The mid-1990s country assistance strategy noted that net Bank disbursements to Colombia had turned
negative and debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) had declined and mentions a "catalytic role" for the
Bank and small-staff-intense projects.

priorities in the country assistance strategy (peace, rural development, human capital,
public sector efficiency, infrastructureand sustainable development) covered a wide
terrain but paid little attention to the financial sector.

2.15    When the new government realized that it needed additional international
financingthat could only be obtained from the IFIs, and approached the World Bank,
IDB and CAF, the Bank was unprepared. After several rounds of discussions in
September and October of 1998,by early November discussions had focused on a
possible FSAL for about $500 million and an overall lending program considerably
above the levels discussed in the mid-1990s country assistance strategy. Yet, for a variety
of reasons (discussed in Section lV below) the FSAL was only approved a hll year later,
in November 1999.A country assistance strategy progress report was also discussed at
that time. Also during 1999the firstjoint Bank-IMF FSAP took place in Colombia, and
the government reached agreementwith the IMF on an EFF.

3.        The Financial Markets Development TechnicalAssistance
          Project

Analytical and Financial Support, 1993-97

3.1       The Bank's analyticalwork on the financial sector during the early and mid-
1990s,included a Financial Sector ~ e v i e wfollowed by a Capital Markets Report, in
                                                      ~ ,
1996,' and complementedby a review of (and assistance on) Banking Supervision in
1997.The different components of this analytical work were part of the Bank's assistance
program set out in the early 1990scountry assistance strategy, and guided the preparation
of the Financial Markets Development Technical Assistance project of 1997.

3.2       The Financial Sector Review and the Capital Markets report were prepared during
a period when the domestic financial sector had recovered from the banking crisis of the
1980s,and broader reforms, such as improvements in banking supervision (strengthening
of the Superintendencia),privatization of banks previously taken over during the earlier
crisis, and pension reform (approval of the Pension Funds Law in 1993)were being
implemented.Their optimistic assessmentwas influenced also by an international
environmentin which foreign investment directed to developing countries was increasing
at a fast pace.


Project Preparation, Objectives and Design

3.3       The FMDTA project preparation started in 1992in parallel with (and based on the
analysis and conclusions of) the Financial Sector Review of 1993,6but the preparation
suffered from many delays, was put on hold in 1994and re-started in 1996.' The project
approved in 1997(see below) was substantially different from the one described in the
ambitious initial design which includedpolicy reforms, technical assistance for capital
markets development, and financing for a backstop facility (to extend maturities of newly
issued securities) and from the one described in the project summary,which
contemplated two separate operations: a technical assistanceproject and a separate, larger
loan or guarantee for a backstop facility. Both designs were largely Bank- (supply-)
driven designs,based on the analysis of the Financial Sectorreview, but with limited
ownershipby the government that was, at the time, reducing its borrowings from the
Bank and other IFIS.'



  "Colombia: Financial Sector Reform" 1992.
  "Mission de Estudios del Mercado de capitals" July 1996.The mission took place in 1994.
 The team visited Colombia in September 1991 and September 1992.
'The  ICR for the project (Report No. 28928, of June 20,2004) presents a good description of the complex
rroject preparation (in Section 3.3, pages 4 to 6).
  Bank staff commented that the project took longer than average to prepare because it spanned an election
period during which an opposition party with different priorities was elected. Only after completion of a
new government study on local capital markets in 1996 could the project be realigned. Thus, rather than
constituting a "supply-driven" approach, changes in project design reflected a responsiveness to client
priorities.

3.4       After a new government took office in August 1994,project preparation was put
on hold, partly because of the availabilityof a large Japanese grant approved in 1994,
which, in the government's view, provided ample financing for the technical assistance
requirementsfor the capital markets. The government remained cool to the ambitious
proposals put forward by the Bank, and particularlyto the idea of a Bank loan to finance
a backstop facility. The newly approved Japanese grant was also used to fund the Capital
Marketsmission of October 1994(whose final report was issued in 1996).

3.5       Appraisal of FMDTA took place in November 1996 (more than four and a half
years after the initial project summary),with the benefit of the new capital markets work,
and resulted in a new project design, supportedby a loan of $15 million, that was finally
approved in June 1997.The project was a self-standingtechnical assistance project with a
total cost of $20 million, covering a variety of issues and making it a complex operation,
particularly in terms of implementation arrangements:the project included a total of six
componentswith 11 implementing agencies.At least some of the components, conceived
in the original project design, had become dated: this is the case for the component to
support Social Securityreform, a reform that had been ongoing since the approval of the
new social security system in 1993.' The Bank loan was to finance mostly consultant
services ($11million) as well as some training ($2.3 million) and computer and office
equipment ($1.7 million)

3.6       Components: The six original componentsof the project, their share in total
project costs and the main implementing agencieswere:

         Develop thefinancial markets into a more eficient channelfor mobilizing savings
         andfinancing investment. This component accounted for about seven percent of
         total project costs, and included support for the Superintendency of Securities
          (Superintendenciade valores-SV),the borrowing department (Credito Publico) of
         the Ministry of Finance, and also the department of financial regulation
         (Direccion General de Regulation Financiera-DGRFin the MoF)

         Improve the institutional capacitiesfor financial sectorpolicy formulation, and
         strengthen regulatory and supervisionframework. This component, accounting
         for 24 percent of total project costs, provided support to four agencies: DRGF,
         SV, Superintendencyof Cooperatives (Superintendenciade Economia Solidaria-
         SES) and Superintendencyof Banks (Superintendenciade Bancos-SB).

         Increase the supply of securities byfacilitating the introduction of newfinancial
         instruments. This component accounted for 14.5 percent of total project costs and
         provided support to the SV. A key aspect of this component is that it identified, at
         an early stage, the securitization of mortgages as a significant issue that would
         later become even more important.




  Bank staff disagreed, arguing that quantifying the public pension liability was key to securing future
fiscal sustainability.

          Consolidatethe Social SecurityReform. This component, accounting for 24.5
          percent of the project cost changed its rationale during the long gestation of the
          project, as the social securityreforms of 1993developed. In its final form it
          supportedthe estimation of the costs of the government's pension liabilities, and
          provided support to a department in the Ministry of Finance and the pensions
          Directorate in the SB.

          Deter corrupt orfraudulent practices such as money laundering. This component,
          for 15percent of project costs, supported the establishment of a new agency (the
          UIAF) and development of a system of financial intelligence.

          Foster more eficient operation of markets bypromoting competition and
          deterring anti-competitivepractices. This component, for 10percent of project
          costs, supportedthe developmentof an anti-trust policy capacity, providing
          support for the Superintendencyof Industry and Commerce.

3.7       In addition to the original six components,new componentswere included as part
of an amendment and project restructuring in October 2000, to include the Deposit
Guarantee Fund (FOGAFIN), and support to the municipality of Bogota on its debt
issuance.

3.8       By the time the above project design was approved, in June 1997,the underlying
conditions in the country's financial sector had changed substantially from those
prevailing at the time of the originalproject design: the weaknesses in the capital markets
remained a major feature of the financial sector, and the analysis in the CapitalMarkets
Report was able to identify specificrecommendations for improving the functioningof
the capital markets. But the overall economic conditions in the country, the changing
international environment, and the increasing financial sector distress, resulting from
internal financial sector risks which had been ignored in project design, reduced the
relevance of the FMDTA project and had a negative impact on its implementation
immediately after it was approved.1




'OBank staff commented that two unforeseen exogenous events the emerging financial markets crisis
                                                                  -

which started in Asia, and a Colombian Constitutional Court ruling which shifted interest rate risk
massively to domestic credit institutions- were the underlying causes of the Colombian financial crisis.
They point out that the country assistance strategy was approved in 1997,the same year in which the Asian
crisis broke out but that the contagion effects did not reach Latin America until 1998, and Colombia until
early 1999 Therefore, it would be unrealistic to expect, as IEG does, that the Bank team could anticipate a
crisis which neither the Bank, the Fund, international rating agencies, or Wall Street analystshad forecast
in 1997when this technical assistance loan was being prepared. However, the Colombian authorities did
state in their 1999 Letter of Intent to the IMF that, by end-1996, the health of the financial sector had
already deteriorated markedly, particularly affecting financial cooperatives and the public banks. Moreover,
spreads on Colombian paper had begun widening markedly during the second half of 1997,a reflection of
diminished confidence and anxiety about the financial outlook. And the Constitutional Court ruling cited
by Bank staff was not issued until mid-1999, almost a year after the crisis started.

Implementation

3.9     Initial implementationof the FMDTA project proceeded slowly and in isolation
from the broader events developing in the country and the financial sector. This was
partly a result of the project design, with its multiple components and implementing
agencies operating independently, and partly a result of the implementation
arrangements, including a project implementation unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance,
which focused solely on the project, and was not integrated into the discussion of the
broader issues that the government and the individual implementing agencies were
starting to face.

3.10    Disbursements and cancellations. Disbursements were slow throughout the
implementationperiod. During the mid-tern review, in early 2000, there was an initial
discussion of reallocations and cancellation but no cancellationstook place until more
than a year later. By mid-2001, when the peak of the financial crisis was long passed
(and the second tranche conditions of the FSAL were being met), total disbursements had
reached only $5 million, or a third of the total loan over a four-yearperiod. Cancellation
of about a third of the loan was discussed with the government again during the May
2001 supervisionmission and a cancellation of $5.5 million took place in November
2001. The project continued to languish during the second half of 2001 and early 2002
(disbursementsby April 2002 had reached only $6.8 million) well after the worst of the
financial crisis was over, and the FSAL had closed.

3.11    After a new governmenttook office in August 2002, there was a sense of renewed
relevance for the FMDTA project as the government startedpreparation of a new round
of financial sector adjustment operations (eventually,the PFSAL I and 11).The
governmentrequested a second extension of the closing date (to December 2003), which
was supported by the Bank, and some activities supportedby the project took on greater
importance because of their links to the proposed PFSAL (e.g. support of debt workouts
for companies).

3.12    By late 2003, however, only $8.2 million was disbursed and the project closed
with a second cancellationof about $1.2 million. By that time, the 1999FSAL was
closed, and a subsequentPFSAL had been approved. Thus, six years after approval of the
FMDTA, and nearly 12years after the IEPS, the project had disbursed less than 55
percent of the loan amount.


Assessment and Outcomes

3.13    Quality at Entry: The project design was based on a diagnostic of country and
sector conditions that had already changed by time of approval (and even appraisal). The
diagnostic of the sector was based on substantive policy reform and improved banking
supervision undertaken after the crisis of mid-1980s. These reforms included varying
interest rates, reducing segments in the financial system, greater autonomy for Central
Bank and improving banking supervision. This diagnostic, in May 1997,barely a year
before a major banking crisis erupted and exposed the fragilities of the banking sector,

was seriously off track and diverted the attention of the project away from more
important issues in the sector. Thus, quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory.

3.14     In addition,the project risks were rated as low, including the possibility of loss of
political commitment.Yet the project was presented to the Board less than a year before
national elections, towards the end of an administrationthat was under accusations for
corruption in the public sector banks, and for alleged links to drug funds in financing its
campaign.Most importantly, it put the Bank-Governmentdialogue on the financial sector
on the wrong footing at the beginning of the crisis, and put the Bank at a disadvantageto
recognize at an early stage, and help deal with, the financial sector crisis.

3.15     Someproject components were of questionablerelevance, particularly those
dealing with Social Security: a major reform of the Pension System had already taken
place between initial project design and project approval. The final project design was
largely supply-drivenby the Bank, and included too many components and implementing
agencies. On the positive side, several of the componentswere well identified and
designed, using the lessons and recommendationsof the Capital Markets report, and the
project supported early work on the issues of mortgage securitization and establishment
of the UIAF.

3.16     Relevance: For the reasons mentioned above, the project relevance was
unsatisfactory at entrance. Also, it was unsatisfactoryduring the first two years of
implementationand, at least until the mid-term review (early 2000), because of the
absence of links with the work on FSAL, FSAP, and the government measures to deal
with the financial crisis.

3.17     Relevance improved somewhat after the mid-term review but this review was a
missed opportunity to have a major restructuring of the project." The second half of 2000
and 2001 saw also small improvements in relevance (particularly after the amendment
adding some components-yet,             no componentwas ever dropped during the long project
life). After 2002, and during preparation of the PFSAL I, there were also some small
improvementsin relevance but they were limited by insufficient restructuring. Thus
project relevance is rated as negligible.

3.18     Outcomes:Assessment by Objective/Component. Achievement of the six original
objectives (and corresponding components) incorporated in the Matrix of key objectives
and performance indicators, (as well as of the added components in 2000, included in
items 1 and 2) is summarized below:


I IBank staff commented that Bank efforts dating back to April 1999to better align the project with crisis
needs were delayed by opposition from substantial vested interests within the Government's project
implementationunits, which were reluctant to forego the budgetary allocations they had already received
under the original project framework. Moreover, high turnover in the Government-appointed Project
Director significantlydisrupted the decision-makingprocess. Finally, in the late 1990s, formally
restructuring a project was cumbersome within the Bank, requiring lengthy Board and Borrower approvals.
So, instead, Bank staff opted for a quicker, but less drastic restructuring, shifting expenditures to areas
more relevant to the crisis, such as bank resolution, deposit insurance, and improved banking risk
supervision.

        Develop thefinancial markets into a more efficient channelfor mobilizing savings
        andfinancing investment. The Matrix lists six expected outcomes (improvements
        in securities trading, custody, settlement and clearing; well hnctioning secondary
        market for public sector securities;more efficient financial management and
        borrowing strategy of the Treasury; increased number of market makers and
        entities trading in government securities; improved capacity of institutional
        investors for risk evaluation and portfolio management; and, increased size and
        depth of the financialmarkets) and four performance indicators (total yearly
        transactions volume on the exchanges1GDP; total yearly transaction volume -in
        exchanges plus OTCIGDP; yearly volume of TES traded in the public
        markets1GDP and yearly average of total assets of institutional investors1GDP).
        At best, only two of the original outcomes (secondary market for public sector
        securities and Treasury financial management and borrowing strategy),plus the
        added support to the Bogota Municipality, and one of the monitoring indicators
        (volume of TES traded in the marketlGDP)were achieved.12 Thus, the outcome
        of this component is rated as unsatisfactory.

        Improve the institutional capacitiesfor financial sector policy formulation, and
        strengthen regulatory and supervisionframework. The Matrix lists six outcomes
        (more effective supervisionof the money and capital markets; more effective
        supervision of financial intermediaries;better financial sectorpolicy formulation
        capacity, improved financial sector policies; effective supervision and control of
        the financial cooperatives system; and effective supervision of the cooperatives
        sector in general) and two monitoring indicators (number of persons formally
        trained in supervision of creditldepositinstitutions and number of persons
        formally trained in supervisionof securitiesmarket). The findings of the 1999
        FSAP and its 2005 update, as well as recent reviews of the sector (e.g. in the ICR
        for PFSAL 11),show all of the six outcomes were achieved, to different degrees,
        during the project period, even if attribution is difficult and the project
        contribution is likelyto have been very small compared to the impact of the crisis,
        the FSAL, the two PFSALs, and other factors. The amendment in 2000, although
        too late and too small, also contributed to achievement of these objectives.The
        outcome of this componentis rated as satisfactory.

        Increase the supply of securities byfacilitating the introduction of newfinancial
        instruments. The matrix has four outcomes (increased supply of securities and
        availability of other financial instruments; improved access to owned-housing for
        low income families; improved access to tertiary education for low income
        students; and improvedrisk management for economic agents facing uncertainty
        related to exchange rates, interest rates, stock market level) and two performance
        indicators (yearly average of equity market capitalizationIGDPand number of


12The ICR notes that the quantitative indicators for the project were too broad and ambitious, and that "the
onslaught of the 1998-1999 economic/financialcrisis made these indicators somewhat irrelevant" (ICR,
page 10). Although recent improvements in the country's economic performance have resulted in
increased securities market capitalization, the FSAP update of early 2005 found private capital markets
slow, due to scarcity of local investment securities and weaknesses in clearance and settlement systems.

securities andlor issuers rated per year). Only the second part of the first outcome
("Increased supply of securities and availability of otherfinancial instruments")
was achieved because of the progress in securitization of mortgages. The
economic and financial sector crisis meant a substantialreversal to overall
financialmarkets in Colombia and the housing market in particular. On the
positive side, a Securities Law was drafted (and subsequentlyapproved, in 2005),
largely under the support of the PFSAL I and I1(though it was approved after
PFSAL I1closing and cannot be attributedto this project). Moreover, the ICR for
PFSAL I1notes that the new law will not have a significantimpact in the short
run (see SectionV below). Because of the early identification of the importance
of mortgage securitization,the outcome of this component is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory.

Consolidate the Social Security Reform. The matrix lists six outcomes
(determinationof the value of pension bonds and liabilities of decentralized
entities; issuance of bonds by decentralized entities to the pension funds, better
knowledge of the expected impact of pension liabilities on public sector finances;
improved investmentperformance of pension fund; better capacity of Instituto de
Seguros Sociales (ISS) to serve its affiliates; and, improved financial performance
of the new pension fund system) and one monitoring indicator (yearly volume of
pension liabilities actually determined-by   number of affiliates). Two of the
outcomeswere fully achieved (determination of value of liabilities and better
knowledge of the impact of pension liabilities on public sector finances), and
some institutional strengtheningtook place (of the SS department in MoF and
Pensions Directorate in the SB-although     neither was listed in the Matrix). As
noted above (and in the ICR) this was a low relevance component. Its outcome is
rated as moderately satisfactory.

Deter corrupt orfraudulent practices such as money laundering. The matrix lists
two outcomes (detection of irregular, fraudulent or corrupt practices in financial
transactions; and, practices identified and relevant authoritiesreceive necessary
informationto take action) and one monitoring indicator (number of persons
formallytrained in [detection ofl money laundering and other fraudulent
practices). The main output (establishment of the UIAF) can be considered as
contributing substantiallyto the expected outcomes. Thus, it is rated satisfactory.

Foster more efficient operation of markets bypromoting competition and
deterring anti-competitive practices. The Matrix includes two expected outcomes
(improved quality and faster decision-making in anti-trust cases; and, reduced
welfare losses from non-competitive market arrangements) and two monitoring
indicators (yearly number of cases of anti-competitivepractices investigated by
the Superintendencyof Industry and Commerce--SIC; and yearly number of anti-
competitivepractices decided by the SIC). Although the project provided funding
to the SIC (interalia, to improve its IT system), and the backlog of pending cases
was reduced, only one third of the amount of this small component was disbursed
and there is no evidence of its impact on market efficiency. Its relevance and the

        link with financialmarket efficiencyare also low. The outcome of this component
        is rated unsatisfactory.

3.19    In addition, most of the monitoring indicatorswere poorly designed, and neither
the ICR nor the 17internal project assessmentreports include any quantification of these
monitoring indicators: all the relevant tables to these reports are empty, and the ICR
includes only a small table (Annex 1)with five indicators. As noted above (footnote 12)
the ICR has a similar assessment of the indicators. Data available suggests that most of
the indicators in the matrix were lower at the end of the project than they were at the
beginning; this was a result of the financial sector crisis and emphasizes the low
relevance and quality at entry of the project.

3.20    Given the above, the outcome of the project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory.
The project would have been rated unsatisfactory(or lower) except for its contributions
under the second objective, particularly after the 2000 amendment.13

3.21    Institutional development is rated modest, mainly because of its contributionsto
several institutions supportedby the project, including the UIAF, the SES
(Superintendencyof Cooperatives),the DGRF in the Ministry of Finance, the DSS, also
in MoF, as well as the SB and FOGAFIN.

3.22    Sustainability of the achievements,particularly in the area of institutional
development,is rated as likely, mainly because of the subsequent experience under the
PFSALprogram and recent developments.

3.23    Bankperformance duringpreparation and appraisal is rated unsatisfactory,
because of the misjudgments regarding the financial sector condition and most relevant
issues at the time, the low relevance of the overall project design, and of some
componentsin particular, and the "supply driven" approach exhibited during the long
preparation.

3.24    Early Bank supervision of the project was also unsatisfactory and reflected its
isolation from the developments in the rest of the sector: throughout 1998all components
were rated as satisfactory, and the internal project assessmentsmade no mention of the
financial crisis erupting in the country, except for repeated references to problems with
counterpart funds (e.g. in the supervisionreport of December 1998). In May and June
1998,as conditions in the financial sector were deteriorating, two successive internal
project assessmentreports highlighted the strengtheningof the capability of participating
agencies. The first mention of the financial crisis appeared in the an internal project
assessmentin 1999as several implementing agenciesrequested re-direction of the funds
to priority areas and more flexibility in the use of resources. Still, this assessment,written
at the height of the financial crisis, rated the promotion of financial markets as highly
satisfactory. Later in the year, the next supervisionreport was based on a desk review
because the government requested a postponement of the supervision visit.



13Bank staff disagreed with this characterization of the outcome, and specifically with this rating.

3.25      The project's mid-term review of the FMDTA took place in March 2000 (four
months after the FSAL was approved)and was conducted together with the Task Team
Leader for the FSAL. This appearsto be the first link between the two operations, more
than a year and a half after the government first requested emergencyquick disbursing
assistance to address the financial sector distress. Disbursements at the time were a very
low $2.7 million, and the report mentions, once again, the issue of "counterpart funds".
The mid-term review's discussion of implementationprogress and development
objectives was more aligned with the financial sector issues addressedby the FSAL, but
the repeated references to problems with counterpart funds indicate a poor assessmentof
priorities by the Bank.I4The mid-term review initiated discussions of possible
reallocations and cancellationsbut fell short of addressing the drastic restructuring that
the financial sector conditions required.15

3.26      Throughout this period, the internal project assessment reports did not include any
management comments, suggestingalso low priority and attention level within the Bank.
The assessments started to include management comments with the May 2001 report.
The reports continued to rate DO as satisfactory on the basis of the project's contribution
to maintaining an engagementin the sector and identifying second-generationreforms,
but noting that the project's quantitativeindicators for the capital markets would not be
achieved. The final assessmentnotes, once again, the inability of the Project Unit to get
sufficientbudget throughout the project, but does not link this issue with the question of
project relevance as seen by the government (and particularly by the Ministry of Finance,
responsible for both the budgetary allocations as well as the P U .

3.27      Given the above, Bank performance during the first two years of implementation
is also rated as unsatisfactorybecause of the lack of linkages with evolving events in the
country as well as the lack of management input into the supervisionreports. Subsequent
Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactorybecause of its gradual, but only
partial, adaptation to changing country conditions (e.g. in the mid-term review) and
gradually increasing management inputs in the supervision process. In the final years of
the project Bank performance was satisfactory. Total project costs to the Bank were
high, at over $400,000 for a project with total disbursements of about $8.2 million, and
could have been better used in other areas of support to the financial crisis. For the entire
project, Bank performance is rated as moderately un~atisfactory.'~

3.28      Borrower performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The performance of
most implementing agencieswas satisfactory,but overall project coordinationwas poor
and lacking in a strategic vision to restructure the project at an early stage. The
governmentmanaged its priorities through the indirect mechanism of its budgetary


l4 Bank staff commented that the shortage of counterpart funding affected all public investmentprojects
equally at this time, due to a deepening fiscal crisis, and in no way reflected any diminished Borrower
commitment to this particular project.
I SStaff noted that formal project restructuring was a cumbersome process at the time, and there were no
institutional incentives for task teams to propose them. While this may explain the approach taken by the
team, it does not alter the (institutional) rating of Bank performance.
16 Bank staff disagreed with the negative characterization of Bank performance, and this rating
specifically.

allocations of the project (which led to the frequent and misguided Bank complaints
about "counterpart funds"), instead of engaging the Bank in a more substantive
discussion on the need to restructure the project. Administration costs of the project, to
the government, are unclear as the ICR lists it at $556,000 in one table (Project Cost by
Component) but only $213,000 in another (Project Financing by Source). Nevertheless,
the Government did introduce a number of reforms in the sector in the aftermath of the
crisis, so that on balance, its performance is considered moderately satisfactory.

4.      The Financial SectorAdjustment Loan (FYOO)

4.1     Overview. As mentioned, in additionto the underlying macroeconomic causes of
Colombia's financial sector crisis in 1998-99,discussed in Chapter 1,two other sources
of the crisis can be found within the financial sector itself: one was the increasinglypoor
performance of Colombia's publicly owned banks, because of poor lending practices,
political interference and corruption. The other internal source of the crisis was linked to
the apparentlymost successful componentof the financial sector: the large mortgage
lending sector that had developed, sincethe early 1970s,based on an indexation system
for mortgage loans (the WAC-Unidad          de Poder Adquisitivo Constante-linked        to the
inflation index).

4.2     In spite of some three decades of double-digit inflation, the W A C had allowed
for a huge development of mortgage lending, and the growth of financial institutions (the
CAVs or Cooperativasde Ahorro y Vivienda)with a portfolio specialized in mortgage
lending. Since the early 1990s,the WAC indexation system was changed to include not
only the inflation rate but also a link to short term interest rates. As interest rates started
to increase,the value of the UPAC-denominatedmortgages also increased rapidly and,
when a housing bubble burst, in 1997-98,mortgage holders found themselves with debts
that exceeded the value of their houses: not surprisinglyarrears increased and the
portfolio of the CAVs deteriorated.

4.3     In late 1997and early 1998,the above trends became a much stronger source of
instabilitydue to two external shocks (a tighter internationalfinancial environment, and a
decline in Colombia's terms of trade), and the Central Bank's attempts to defend the
exchangerate (through small adjustments in the exchangerate "band") in the face of
growing pressures on the peso. The results were several large losses of reserves (with
every unsuccess~lattempt to defend the "band") and very large increases in interest rates
that became the detonating factor for the financial sector crisis.

4.4     The Bank was largely unprepared to support Colombia when the crisis developed
and, to some extent, so was the government,in spite of several early warning signals
(some financial institutions failing in early 1998,the onset of a recession, and the
findingsof some consultants working with the SB in strengtheningbanking supervision).
In the event, the government that took office in August 1998reacted much faster than the
Bank, introducing successivepolicy packages to address the financial crisis in November
1998,and March, June and September 1999.The Bank's financial support arrived in
November 1999with the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.


Preparation, Objectives and Design

4.5    As noted in Chapter 2, the government that took office in August 1998was
confronted with growing economic and financialproblems and moved on two fronts,
focusing on the fiscal problems and requesting a large increase in (quick disbursing)

financing from the international financial institutions.I7 The initial discussionswith the
Bank took place in the context of a ProgrammingMission (September 11-12, 1998).An
internal Bank correspondenceof the mission mentions three areas for quick disbursement
loans: (i) the financial sector (to capitalizeFOGAFIN), (ii) public sector reform (fiscal)
and (iii) the peace process. The government also noted that many ongoing (and planned)
investmentprojects were of low priority and should be cut or restructured. The
government request was for disbursementsof about $500 million per year in 1999and
2o00.'8

4.6       The Bank failed to respond in a timely way to increasingly urgent requests for
assistance from the government,including a letter from the Minister of Finance to
President Wolfensohn on October 2, 1998. It took the Bank two months (until December
 1998)to respond that it could provide a $500 million loan, but that it would require
revising the country assistance strategy, and that the new strategy incorporatingthe new
loan would be scheduled for early 1999.In the event, the loan was not approved until
November 1999,well over a year after the initial discussions.

4.7      Initiating Memorandum. The initiating memorandum for the FSAL was
discussedby the Operations Committee(OC) in early 1999. The memorandum
mentioned the November EmergencyMeasures, assessing them positively, but did not
discuss the need for additionalmeasures to address the crisis. The memorandum focused
instead on structural reforms. The financingneeds were not presented as urgent as the
operation was seen as a precautionary step to minimize risk of future crisis.19 The OC
meeting endorsed the FSAL, emphasizingmore the structural, not emergency aspects,
and asking for back-loading of tranches. It also asked for more specific, tighter focused
conditionality, sharper presentation of costs, and an explanation of how government
actions would help reduce interest rates.

4.8      Between late March and mid-April, a string of announcements suggestedthe still
growing magnitude of the crisis: the Superintendencyof Banks announced that losses in
financial sector doubled from January to February, with the state banks accounting for 70
percent of the total; Standard and Poor's downgraded the ratings of the four leading
private banks, and FOGAFIN announcedthat it needed up to $800 million to shore up the




17 With a strong pressure on the peso, the Central Bank moved again the exchange rate "band" and allowed
a small depreciation but pressure on peso continued; it lost more reserves (over $400 million) and interest
rates continued high.
18 Only a few days later, (September 17)the Minister of Finance visited Washington: and requested
increased financing, and disbursements, to $700 million per year, with half of the 1999 amount in the first
quarter (meeting with Regional Vice President).
l 9Earlier in February 1999a Colombian delegation visited Washington (to discuss emergency financing for
the January earthquake) and learned that the FSAL would not go to the Board in March as implied by the
Bank's December letter. This prompted an angry letter from the Minister of Finance to Mr. Wolfensohn on
agreed terms noting that he was disappointed at this news, but that he hoped the impasse could be resolved
soon. The letter was answered by Mr. Wolfensohn expressing his expectations of this operations going
forward in the first-half of the year.

financial sector.20FOGAFIN also announced details of the recapitalization program for
private banks, and other measures for state banks, mortgage holders and cooperatives.

4.9       FSAP andfurtherpreparation. Preparation of the FSAL took yet another turn in
late April when the Bank and the Fund launched their first (pilot) FSAP in Colombia. In
the meantime, the continuing deterioration of the financial sector's portfolio and
downgrading of commercial banks and of Colombia's sovereign risk led the government
to start discussions on the preparation of a program with the IMF. The FSAP work led to
several missions between late April and early June 1999.Although these developments
resulted in a further delay in the calendar for preparation of the FSAL, they also brought
a much greater level of attention and of human and financial resources to the process. On
the downside, however, this increased attention arrived after the governmenthad had to
manage by itself in addressing the more pressing aspects of the crisis."

4.10      Between June and September 1999FOGAFIN was engaged in its new program
for recapitalizing the banks, a public sector bank (Caja Agraria) was closed, and a
Financial System Framework Law (Law 510,or Ley Organica) was approved. Law 510
formalized the expanded role of FOGAFIN that it had already performed, defacto, since
early in the year. At the same time, however, the Central Bank launched yet another
attempt to keep the exchangerate band by a discrete devaluation (with a further loss in
reserves). Finally, in September,the Central Bank abandoned the exchange rate band and
moved to a free float,while FOGAFIN announced a third round of relief measures for the
mortgage sector."

4.11      Objectives and Components. The FSAL, for $500 million to be disbursed in two
equal tranches, was approved on November 18 and became effective on December 7,
1999.The main objectives of the program supported by the FSAL, were to support:
(i) required changes in financial sector legislation and regulations to facilitate
strengtheningof bank supervisionand deposit insurance and to promote timely, fair and
efficient resolution of banks facing financial solvencyproblems; (ii) to strengthenthe
institutional capacity of the Superintendencyof banks and FOGAFIN; (iii) restructuring,
recapitalization,privatization and, if necessary, liquidation of state owned and
"officialized" banks under public sector management, and (iv) effective implementation
of special measures to address the immediate impact on the financial system stemming
from economic and other emergencies.The matrix of reform actionspresented a slightly
different list by adding the achievementof a satisfactorymacro-economic framework and


20FOGAFIN announced that the transactions tax was not available for private banks (because of the
Constitutional Court decision) and that its total amount was expected to be insufficient even for others. The
CAF had provided $100 million and more was expected, before June, from others including the WB.
21 Bank staff commented that the FSAL design benefited significantly from the FSAP assessment, which
incorporated one of the earliest frameworks for modernized bank resolution methods, matching assets and
liabilities from good and bad banks in lieu of fiscal subsidies for deposit insurance and liquidations,
providing virtual, rather than real, loans to bank shareholders which were used to fund a Government bond
asset, and other innovations, all intended to minimize fiscal outlays, which it successfully accomplished.
However, this approach required legislative remedies, which were the primary reason for delays in loan
effectiveness, rather than any slowness or lack of responsiveness by the Bank task team.
22 To comply with an August ruling of the Constitutional Court regarding the UPAC indexation, and in
advance of a new Housing Law (that was passed on December 23).

a separate mention of the reform of the cooperativessystem. The resulting areas of
reform in the matrix are:

        Ensuring a satisfactorymacroeconomic framework
        Strengtheningthe legal, regulatory and institutional framework of the financial
        system and problem bank resolution.
        Restructuring and resolution of state-ownedand "officialized" banks.
        Reform of the cooperatives system
        Recent specialprograms being implementedby FOGAFIN.

4.12    The matrix of reform actions also includes the actions completed prior to Board
presentation, and the second tranche release conditions in each of the five areas above,
(see Annex B).


Implementation

4.13    With all conditions for first tranche release being also conditionsfor Board
presentation, the first tranche was disbursed immediately after effectiveness(December 7).
Shortly afterwards, in March 2000, two parallel FSAL supervision and FSAP follow-up
missions found that "The most acutephase of the banking crisis haspassed and conditions
in theprivate banking system appear to be easing". Non-performing loans were down
from their peak in November 1999,and interest rates were also down. The FSAP follow-up
note raised its concern about the financialtransactions tax, but this was not reflected in the
FSAL supervisionreport.

4.14    By December 2000, the Bank found that all conditions for second tranche release
had been met, and notified the Board (on February 2,2001) that it had informed the
government of the availability of the second tranche. In early 2001, Colombia's economy
was already on its way to recovery: GDP had grown by 3 percent in 2000 (followingthe
decline of more than 4 percent in 1999),the fiscal deficit had been reduced because of
higher oil revenues (but was a still high 3.6 percent for 2000), and the current account
was roughly in balance. At the same time, however, the country's security situationwas
deterioratingbecause of guerrilla (and paramilitary) activity, foreign investment was
down and external debt increased.

4.15    With elections about a year ahead, and fiscaldeficits stillhigh, the government
decided to capitalize on its improved performance (and improved international financial
markets)to return to the international capitalmarkets and requested the Bank to convert the
FSAL second tranche into a Policy Based Guarantee (PBG) to support its international
borrowings. The Bank agreed and the governmentraised a total of $1 billion in two steps,
in April and May 2001. The total amount of the PBG was about $160million, and the
remainder of the second tranche (about $62 million) was disbursed. The FSAL closed in
December2001 (but the PBG continued open and remains in effect today).

Assessment and Outcomes

4.16    Quality at entry:The identificationand preparation of the FSAL was marked by a
systematicunderestimation of the financial crisis and of the systemic risks to the financial
sector. Bank support was insufficient (in quantity and quality) during a long period in
1998and the first half of 1999,and internal decision-making was poor. The delaysput an
additionalburden on the government and reduced the effectiveness of Bank advice. At
the same time, it appears that the government also underestimated the risks and
vulnerabilities during the early stages of the crisis. In addition, the timing and details of
the governmentmeasures was highly limitedbyjudicial involvement (by the
Constitutional Court). The quality of Bank assistance improved after the (joint Bank-
Fund) FSAP started in late April 1999.

4.17    By the time of FSAL approval,the peak of the crisis was over, most corrective
policies were already in place (some for about a year), and others well under preparation.
 he prior actions (conditions of Board presentation)were based on the policies already
implemented,which were adequate, and the conditions for second tranche release,
focusingon continuations of the reforms were also adequate. Therefore, quality at entry
is rated as satisfactory, in spite of the delays and mixed signals during preparation.

4.18    Relevance. Although the bulk of the credit for avoiding a systemic crisis goes to
the government (with only a supportingrole by the Bank, other IFIs and the IMF), the
Bank's financial and technical support was useful, particularly in the later period of the
crisis, and the FSAL's letter of developmentpolicy outlined a useful path for subsequent
governmentreforms in the sector. The Bank's support for (and insistence on)
privatization of public banks was found particularly useful by the reformers in the
government, even if at times they complained about what they considered excessively
ambitious timing proposed by the Bank. Thus, relevance of the FSAL is rated as
substantial.

4.19    In the worse moments of the crisis (late 1998to mid-1999), however, the
govemment had to fend for itself. Unintentionally,the Bank's early view (in the IM) that
the operation was not addressed to the crisis (paragraph 4.7 above) turned out to be
accurate:there was a crisis at the time, but the FSAL support was provided only after the
peak of the crisis was over, and was more useful to help prevent the possibility of later
ones.

4.20    Outcomes:Assessment by Objective/Component. Achievement of the outcomes
in the five areas of reform in the Matrix of Reform Actions is summarizedbelow:

        Ensuring a satisfactory macroeconomicframework. By the time of Board
        approval,the governmenthad reached agreement with the IMF on a program
        (three-year EFF, formally approved on December 20), and subsequentlycomplied

         with all the program targets (fiscal, monetary and external sector),23although with
         some difficulties in the later part of the period. In the words of the IMF review of
         the EFF in January 2002: "The momentum of Colombia's economic recovery
         slowed in 2001 in the context of a drop in oil exports related to guerrilla sabotage,
         a weakening in external demand as world growth slowed, and a fall in coffee
         prices to historically low levels. Nonetheless, the external position remained
         strong and Colombia maintained access to international financial markets". The
         IMF review in January 2002 also noted that the performance criteria for mid-2001
         were met with the exception of the combined public sector deficit, and that
         criteria for September and December 2001 were not set because of the delays in
         completing the review.24Although with the above limitations in the fiscal area,
         the overall outcome of this policy area is rated as satisfactory.

         Strengthening the legal, regulatory and institutionalframework of thefinancial
         system andproblem bank resolution. The main measures in this area were taken
         in late 1998 and throughout 1999,prior to FSAL approval.As a result of these
         measures, and particularly the bank recapitalization startedby FOGAFIN in mid-
          1999,a systemic crisis was avoided. By March 2000, an FSAL supervision
         mission (and FSAP follow-up mission) noted 'Themost acutephase of the
         banking crisis haspassed and conditions in theprivate banking system appear to
         be easing'. Non-performing loans were down from their peak in November 1999
         (before FSAL approval), and interest rates were down from their peak in early
          1998.The FSAP note (but not the FSAL supervisionreport) mentions concerns
         about the financialtransactions tax. The conditions for second tranche release
         were formalizingthe mechanisms already established in 1999,and strengthening
         the two main institutions implementingthem: the Superintendencyof Banks and
         FOGAFIN. These measures were taken and remained in place. The outcome of
         this component,mainly achieved by the prior actions in 1999is rated as
          satisfactory.

         Restructuring and resolution of state-owned and "ofJicialized" banks. At the time
          of Board approval the governmenthad already closed Caja Agraria, and during
          implementation,three more (BCH, BanEstado and Uconal) stopped operating,
         while some of their bad assets were transferred to a newly established asset
         resolution company (CISA). Another institution, FES, had been intervened in
          1999 and was liquidated.The two remaining public banks (Granahorrar and
          Banco Cafetero)were prepared for privatization, but the process was not

-- - -



23The main economic indicatorsfor the period are summarized below:
                                                   1998      ~~~~
GDP Growth (%)                                      0.6      -4.2        2.9      1.4       1.6
Public SectorDeficit (% of GDP)                     4.6       6.5       3.5       3.5       4.2
Inflation(CPI)                                     16.7       9.2       8.7       7.6       7.0
Interest rate (90 day deposits)                    34.1      15.8      13.4      11.5       7.7
InternationalReserves (months of imports)           6.6       6.7       6.8       8.0       7.8
Total External Debt (% of GDP)                     36.3      42.5      46.1      47.5       52.3
24In spite of this poor assessment by the IMF, the Bank approveda large ($400million) StructuralFiscal
Adjustment Loan (SFAL) in December 2001.

         completed. The second tranche conditions,however, were only to "bring to the
         point of sale" or to "initiate liquidation": therefore, the formal objectives were
         exceeded and the output of this component is rated highly satisfactory in spite of
         the delays regarding Granahorrar and Banco Cafetero.

         Reform of the cooperatives system. The component was based on actions already
         taken by the governmentprior to FSAL approval. The second tranche condition
         was "continued satisfactory implementationof the action plans and agreed
         resolutionprocess for the financial cooperatives". Support for this componentwas
         also provided by the FMDTA project. Of the more than 6000 cooperatives
         identified in a census, only 54 were classified as "financial cooperatives" and
         their supervisionwas transferred to the Superintendencyof Banks. The remainder
         was left under SES (created in June 1998). Of the 54,22 became "closed"
         cooperatives and returned to SES supervision, and 5 became "social" cooperatives
         under another agency, 11were liquidated, 3 merged with other institutions and 13
         remained under the SB. The outcome of this component is rated satisfactory.

         Help effective implementation of special FOGAFINprograms. From late 1998to
          late 1999,FOGAFIN had transformed from a small deposit insurance institution
         into a large and powerful agencywith multiple areas of activity in addressingthe
         financial crisis. This had happened well before the formulation of the details of
         the FSAL components. The programs designed by FOGAFIN had evolved as the
         size of the crisis was revised upwards, and its interventionswere sanctioned or
         curtailedby the Constitutional Court. In addition, it had also been given a role in
         providing support to the victims of the January earthquake. The componentwas
         based on establishing a clear differencebetween its regular and crisis-related
         programs, and between its own funds and those handled on behalf of the
         government (these objectives were achieved already prior to approval). Second
         tranche conditions were continued compliancewith this distinction, and provision
         of additionalresources by government. These conditions were fully met as the
         accountingwas kept separate, and the governmentprovided additional resources
         to FOGAFIN ($197 million in addition to the deposit insurance premiums
         collectedby FOGAFIN). The outcome of this component is rated as satisfactory.

4.21     Most of the resources of the FSAL second tranche were used to fund a PBG in
March and May 2001. This assessmentdoes not cover the outcomes (nor Bank and
Borrower performance) under the PBG, as the PBG has not yet closed and remains active
today." Based on the all of the above, the outcome of FSAL is rated satisfactory.

4.22     The Institutional developmentimpact of the FSAL is rated as substantial,
although the question of attribution is even more difficult to assess than is normally the
case. In any event, the institutional developmentimpact of the program implementedwith
FSAL support was clearly substantial,particularly regarding the changes in the public



25The government,however, is re-purchasing the bonds issued under the guarantee, prior to their due date,
in order to reduce the outstanding amount of the PBG and shorten its term.

sector component of the banking sector. Institutional development in SB and FOGAFIN
was also substantial.

4.23      Sustainability of the reforms is rated as likely. Four years after the closing of
FSAL, all of the reforms remain in place and further progress has been made in many
areas, with the support of two additional adjustment operations (PFSAL I and 11).

4.24      Assessment of Bank performance raises some difficult issues. In terms of
timeliness of response, the Bank gets a very low rating. During the early stages of
preparation, the Bank underestimatedthe extent of the crisis (as did the government).
The Bank also gave conflicting signals in response to the early and increasingly urgent
government requests for financial support. On financing, as well as on technical support,
the government had to manage the crisis largelyby itself for nearly a year. The several
letters from the Minister of Finance to the Bank raising these concerns are an indicator of
this lack of support. For example,the letter from Minister of Finance to Mr.Wolfensohn,
in late 1998to reiterate a request made to Regional Vice President notes his concern that
not enough human and financial resources were available. As noted earlier, this letter
was answered by the Country Director two months later, saying that the Bank expected a
new country assistance strategy incorporatingthe new loan to be endorsed in the first
quarter of 1999. In the event, the FSAL and the country assistance strategyprogress
report went to the Board in November 1999.26

4.25      The Bank's early underestimationof the extent of the crisis is clear from the
Annual Meetings Brief of October 2, 1998,which does not mention the financial sector
among the economic issues disc~ssed.~'Even in late February, the initiating
memorandum for the FSAL argues that there is no liquidity crisis in Colombia, and that
the proposed operation is precautionary. At about the same time the Minister wrote
another angry letter to Mr. Wolfensohn asking for faster processing of the operation.




-


26 Bank staff argued that IEG had misinterpreted the meaning of these exchanges of correspondence which
indicated not government impatience with the Bank's slowness in getting the FSAL approved, but rather
that these letters were meant to accelerate an internal Bank decision to significantly alter the resource
allocation pattern approved so recently in the mid-1990's country assistance strategy so as to more
effectively address the unanticipated financial sector crisis. A more important source of delay resided in
the fact that the FSAL was never intended to provide solely emergency finance, but rather quick-disbursing
assistance within a supporting framework. This framework involved passage of extensive legislation to
implement state-of-the-art bank resolution measures, which took some time. Nonetheless, the delivery of
the loan hnds was timely in that it provided liquidity to both Government and FOGAFIN, the deposit
insurance and resolution agency, to meet depositor claims and fund bank capitalization and resolution.
27 Bank staff commented that the omission of any reference to the condition of the financial sector in the
Meetings Brief was a deliberate concession to the Government, which wanted to keep information about
the deteriorating situation secret during 1998, so as to avoid capital flight and further exchange rate
deterioration. However, the Pastrana Administrationpublicly discussed the banking crisis as early as May
1998, immediately after the elections and five months before the Annual Meetings. It also closed several
coops and public financial institutions during the first few months of its rule, and issued a comprehensive
package dealing with the crisis in November 1998,only one month after the Annual Meetings.

4.26     The relations with the IMF were also a source of confusion as the Bank's initial
attitude was that no IMF program was needed. When the governmentrealized that, in
fact, they needed one, this added to the length of preparation.

4.27     It shouldbe noted, however, that these were difficult times for all concerned: the
Bank was trying to address crisis situations in multiple countries, for which it was not
prepared, the relations with the IMF were strained because of different views regarding
the adequate response to the crises and the contagion and the internal arrangementsin the
Bank created strainsbetween the Regions and the newly created Special Financial
OperationsUnit, which had autonomy from the regional managements regarding where
to direct its financial and technical resources. In addition, differing views within the
Region, with the sector unit arguing for early support to the sector and the country unit
initially reluctant to depart so drastically from the program presented in the country
assistance strategy of a year earlier, contributed to the initial delays and confusion. The
result was that the Bank was unable to offer adequate and consistent support and advice
until late April 1999. After that time, the Bank was able to provide increasing technical
support, particularly regarding regulatory reforms, institutional strengtheningof the main
agencies involved, and focusing attention to the medium-term issues.

4.28     As a result, Bank performance during preparation was unsatisfactory,but it
became satisfactory at a later stage and continued so during supervision, at timesjointly
with FSAP updates. Overall, Bank performance is rated as moderately unsatisfact~ry.~~

4.29     Borrower performance was satisfactory, overall and in terms of compliance
with FSAL conditions. In at least the area of addressing the issues of the public sector
banks it went beyond the agreed plans and was highly satisfactory.




28 Bank staff disagreed with this rating downgrade of Bank performance, which it considered hlly
satisfactory.

5.       The Programmatic Financial SectorAdjustment Loans I
         and I1

Introduction

5.1      The closing of the FSAL, in December 2001, coincided with a period of renewed
political and economic difficulties in Colombia, and a negative impact on the still
recovering financial sector. At the political level, peace negotiations with the guerrilla
groups had broken down in February 2002, followedby escalating violence.

5.2      On the economic front, the IMF summarizedthe conditions: "The economic
situation turned adversein the first half of 2002. Activity remained sluggish as the civil
conflict intensified; consumption remained subdued by persistently high private sector
debt levels and uncertainty associated with the continued high unemployment levels. At
the same time, fiscal consolidation went significantlyoff track. As the year progressed,
the peso came under pressure and sovereignbond spreads widened sharply, reflecting
increased contagion from neighboring countries,rising market concerns about fiscal
solvency and political events".29

5.3      This situation was cause for concern because it echoed exactly the conditions
prevailing four years earlier: it could have been written in mid-1998. There were two
major differences,however: one was that the levels of the relevant economic indicators
were considerablybetter in 2002 than in 1998,even if they were worsening. More
importantly,the policy and institutional environment was better, after the reforms of
1999. At the macro level, the exchangerate was floating and thus had cut the earlier
damaging link to interest rates; in the financial sector there was a stronger legal,
regulatory and institutional frameworkin place, and many of the weaker institutions had
already disappeared,merged or contracted substantially, although there were still
problems remainingwith some public banks.

5.4      After taking office in August 2002, the new government took steps on several
fronts, includingthe internal conflict and security situation and the fiscal and
macroeconomicperformance, and negotiated a two-year Stand-by agreement with the
IMF (agreed in January 2003, at the end of the previous EFF).30

5.5      The Bank's Program. The Bank's response to the new economic and political
challenges faced by Colombia in 2002 was articulatedin the 2002 country assistance
strategy (covering the period of the 2002-2006 government).The 2002 country assistance
strategyproposed a much larger lendingprogram, of about $1 billion per year (twice the
level of the previous country assistance strategy), about half through fast disbursing
adjustment operations. These consisted of four groups of Programmatic operations


29"Colombia: 2002 Article ZV Consultation and Requestfor Stand-by Agreement"; IMF Country Report
No. 3/19 of January 2003, page 5.
30Colombia did not request any drawings from the 1999-2002 EFF, which turned out, expost, to be
precautionary. The Stand-by (2003-04) was already explicitly discussed as precautionary during
preparation.

covering fiscal, financial, social and environmental areas. The financial sectorwould
receive two of the ten programmatic operations, amounting to 15percent of the total,
while the bulk of adjustment lending focused on fiscal adjustment.

5.6      The 2002 country assistance strategy included a detailed discussion of the
financial sector issues and objectives, including: (i) building on the financial sector
reforms of 1999-01(improvingpublic debt management, governance and regulatory
issues, consolidating state controlled second tier banking entities, and improving
regulation for bank resolution and bad asset disposition); (ii) addressingthe continuing
problems in the housing and rural finance areas; (iii) completing the reform of the
pension system; and (iv) supportinga deeper, more liquid capital market.3'

5.7      The country assistance strategy listed eleven specific objectives for the financial
sector: (i) restructuring andlor privatization of public banks (particularlyBanco Cafetero
and Granahorrar); (ii) institutional strengtheningof CISA (dealingwith management and
disposition of repossessed assets); (iii) increasing the effectiveness and efficiencyof
second-tierpublic developmentbanks;32(iv) capital market development (capitalmarkets
law, regulations, institutional strengthening,new instruments); (v) strengthening/
restructuring existing financial groups; (vi) reforming the pension and social security
system; (vii) improving the framework for problem bank resolution and strengthening
risk management; (viii) reformingjudicial system procedures affecting the financial
sector (including foreclosureprocedures); (ix) improving solvency standards and
improving supervision of the insurancesector; (x) developing sustainable financial
servicesto the rural areas; and (xi) strengtheningthe framework for combatingmoney
laundering and the financing of terrorism. The otherwise comprehensiveprogram did not
mention elimination of the financialtransactions tax, introduced as a one-year emergency
measure during the 1999crisis and still in operation today.33The strategy's objectives for
the financial sector provide the context to assess the relevance and effectivenessof the
two Programmatic FSALs approved in FY03 and FY04.

5.8      ThePFSALs. The country assistance strategy objectives in the financial sector
were to be achieved through two programmatic single-tranche operations of $150 million
each, in the first two years of the country assistance strategy (FY03 and FY04). Given the
substantial amount of unfinished business in the financial sector at the time of the 2002
strategy (the eleven areas listed above), addressing them through two closely-spaced
single tranche operations was an ambitious approach. A longer program, covering at least
five years, and spacing the proposed FSALs over a longer period would have been more
realistic.




31This had already been the main objective of the FMDTA project, approved five years earlier.
32IFI, FINDETER, FEN, FINAGRO and BANCOLDEX.
33The distortions caused by the tax were already noted in 2000 by the FSAP follow up missions. The tax
rate today is twice as high as when it was introduced.

PFSAL I: Preparation,Design and Implementation

5.9     Preparation and Design. Preparation of PFSAL I took place in late 2002 and
early 2003, at a time still marked by serious concerns about Colombia's fiscal and
external conditions, followingthe poor fiscal and economicperformance in 2002. At the
time of appraisal,the new governmenthad been in office for only a few months, and
concluded negotiations with the IMF on a new two-year Stand By (in January 2003). The
Bank's work on the financial sector, influencedby the experience of the 1998-99crisis
and its aftermath,recognized that there was significant unfinishedbusiness, not only in
the areas of legislation,regulation and institutional strengthening,but also in terms of
distressed portfolios and institutions,publicly owned and "officialized" banks and in the
housing finance institutions.

5.10    The PFSAL I objective was defined as "to complete the clean up of the banking
system as a result of the 1999-2001crisis and to strengthen the government's capacity to
manage and mitigate weaknesses in the financial system. At the same time the objective
is to prevent crisis contagion effects from neighboring countries or other exogenous
events, by utilizing strongregulatory incentives for prudential management, market risk-
sharing mechanisms and optimal supervisorypowers to expeditiouslycontain any
emerging risks in the financial system."34 Other objectives included improvements in the
housing mortgage market, and in non-bank financial services and securities institutions,
and to strengthenthe legislative framework and capabilities of supervisory institutions

5.11    As expected in the first phase of a programmatic approach,PFSAL I includes a
description of the different areas to be addressedby the full program, including the
reforms to be supportedunder each of the two operations. These areas are:

        Banking system: strengthen corporate governance (under the new financial system
        law 795, approved in January 2003), improve enforcementpowers of the SB,
        regulatory infrastructure and tracking of sensitive funds (AMLICTF), improve
        mechanisms for resolution of problem banks, restructuring and resolution of State
        Owned Banks, prudential regulation and supervision, and institutional
        developmentof the SB.
        Housingfinance: improve mechanisms for mortgage foreclosure,management of
        recovered assets,bank privatization or closure, encouragingmicro-finance, and
        improvingFOGAFIN7ssupport for hedging and securitization (through FRECH);
        a broader set of improvementswere expected for the second operation.
        Insurance sector and non-bankfinancial services: capital requirements, solvency
        standards,reserves, investment norms and enforcementregime for insurance
        sector, improve SB supervision of the trust industry; regulations on most of the
        above areas, and for the private pension funds, were expected for the second
        operation.
        Capital markets:establishing asset valuation standards,joint supervisionby SB
        and SV of financial groups, regulations on capital requirements and conflict of
        interests, and institutional strengtheningof the SV; under the second operation, a


34PFSAL I Program Document, paragraph 142.

        new Securities Law and furtherregulatory and institutional improvementswere
        planned, together with improved market infrastructure (e.g., electronic trading);
        the securities law was expected to cover also investment banking.
         GovernmentDebt and money markets: increase the liquidity of Treasury
        securities, improve regulation of brokersldealers, establish a valuation framework;
        under the second phase further actions were expected on debt market
        development, strengtheningof the money market and improving risk
        measurement and management by market participants.

5.12    The "Policy Matrix for ProgrammaticReform Program" (Annex 1of the Program
Document), lists the prior actions taken (before PFSAL I approval) for each of the areas
above, adding the maintenance of a sound macroeconomicpolicy framework,the future
actions to be taken prior to PFSAL I1approval,as well as the key expected results at the
end of the program.

5.13    The list of areas indicate the mixed characterof the program: a combination of
"mopping up" problems remaining from the previous crisis (mainly housing finance and
the public banks), plus legislative,regulatory and institutional development activities
intended to develop a deeper and more sophisticatedfinancial sector, many of them
centered around the implementation of the "Ley de Reforma Financiera" (Financial
Reform Law, Law 795 of January 2003). The objective of hrther deepening and
development of the financial sector is also related to the objectives set a full decade
earlier, in 1993,when preparation for the FMDTA project started.

5.14    Implementation and Outcomes. PFSAL I, for $150 million, was approved in
April 2003, declared effective (and disbursed) in June 2003, and closed also in the same
month. As a single tranche operationwith all conditions met at approval, implementation
of FSAL I is better seen in terms of the initial outcomes and related performance of the
sector.35Economic and financial sector performance were positively affected by a
macroeconomicenvironment that turned out more favorablethan anticipated at appraisal
(see tables 5.1 and 5.2 below). GDP growth in 2003 was close to 4 percent, well above
the 2.5 percent projection in the project document (and another 4 percent in 2004). The
fiscal deficit was within the expected range in 2003 (about 3 percent of GDP) and a much
lower 1.7percent in 2004 and inflation continued to decline. The external sector was
strong,with a current account deficit of 1.5percent of GDP in 2003 and 1percent in
2004, and large capital inflows that led to an appreciationof the peso and improved terms
for external government financing. At the policy level, the main accomplishmentwas the
approval of Law 795, passed prior to approval of PFSAL I.




35Although PFSAL I formally closed in March 2003 and the ICR was issued in December 2003, this
discussionof implementation covers the period until approval of PFSAL I1in September 2004.

Table 5.1: Main Economic Indicators
                                          2002   2003 2004       2005 (projected
GDP Growth (%)                              1.6  3.8      4.0     4.0
Public SectorDeficit (% of GDP)            4.2   3.2      1.7     2.5
Inflation(CPI)                              7.0  6.5      5.5     5.0
Interestrates (90 day deposits)             7.7  7.9      7.7     --
InternationalReserves (months of imports)   7.8  6.6      7.2     6.5
External Debt (% of GDP)                  52.3   46.0    37.1    35.9
Source: Internal World Bank data.


5.15     The improved economic performance translated into a better performance of the
banking sector and facilitated achievement of the objectives of this component.Banking
sector profitability increased in 2003 and the level of arrears declined noticeably (though
it remained high) with substantialdifferencesamong different categories of institutions:
the housing banks and publicly owned banks continued to perform worse than the rest of
the sector. Privatization of the public banks was delayed: there were no bidders for
BANCAFE, and there were delays in the preparation (to point of sale) of
GRANAHORRAR.36More substantialimprovements took place on the restructuring and
privatization of second tier banks ( c l o s i n g b f ~with
                                                        ~ part of its activities merged with
BANCOLDEX).

Table 5.2: Banking Sector Indicators
                                 2000      2001        2002      2003        2004
Return on Assets                  -2.3      0.1         1.1       1.9         2.7
Return on Equity                 -20.7      1.1         9.6      17.1        23.0
CapitalAdequacy Ration           13.2      13.3        12.5      13.1        13.8
Past due1TotalLoans              11.0       9.7         8.7       6.8         3.3
Gross LoansIGDP                  27.0      25.3        24.6      23.1        24.5
Source: Internal World Bank data.


5.16     A review of the improvementsin the financial sector carried out after the closing
of PFSAL I and before approval of PFSAL 113'noted that there remained vulnerabilities
in the banking sector, particularly regardingthe mortgage banks (poor credit quality,
interest rate mismatches), excessiveconcentrationof assets on public sector debt
(crowding out, income volatility risks), and need for improved&eillance,            for
coordination among supervisory agencies, and for consolidated supervisionof financial
groups. Some of these issues were taken up under PFSAL 11.

5.17     Improvements in the housing finance area fell short of expectations.New
procedures were put in place to facilitate foreclosure,but in terms of results on the
ground there was little progress: as noted above, the health of the housing finance sub-




36Granahorrarhas been recently sold (October31,2005) after the closing of PFSAL 11.
37"The Recoveryof Colombia's Financial Systemand Remaining Vulnerabilities", WB and Ministry of
Finance (Colombia),July 2004.

sector remained precarious and the expected increase in mortgage lending, particularly to
low income segments of the population, failed to materiali~e.~'

5.18     Achievementsin the non-bank financial institutions, capital markets and debt and
money markets were, at best, moderate. New regulations were instituted, SB and SV
signed an MOU to cany outjoint supervision and surveillance, and the debt management
unit worked on the construction of a yield curve, but it is difficult to identi@actual
improvements on the ground. For example, the size and variety of the capital market
experienced little or no impr~vernent,~~liquidity of government securities suffered from
the market turbulence in late 2002 and did not improve substantiallyuntil 2004, and the
insurance industry had only moderate improvements in terms of capitalization and
activity.

5.19      Overall, the PFSAL I period saw major improvements in economic performance
and the recovery of the banking sector, but improvementsin the broader financial sector
were of a more subtle, institutional development type.40Ratings for PFSAL I are
discussed later, in parallel to those of PFSAL 11.


PFSAL 11: Preparation, Design and Implementation.

5.20     Preparation and design.Preparation of PFSAL I1took place in a very different
situation than the one prevailing when PFSAL I, and the overallprogram, were prepared.
As a Bank documentpoints out, GDP growth continued to be strong in 2004, and capital
inflows in the first two months of 2004 were some $600 million (compared with an
outflow of $80 million during the same period of 2003). The strong capital inflows had
led to an appreciationof the peso (and accumulation of reserves) in spite of efforts by the
Central Bank to limit the appreciation (and growingmonetary base) by lowering interest
rates. In this environment,and with the consolidated fiscal deficit also continuing to
decline (after dropping to 2.7 percent in 2003 it fell further to 1.3percent in 2004)41the
choice of another quick disbursing operation to support medium term regulatory reform
and institutional developmentin the financial sector was driven more by the commitment
to the programmatic approach than by macroeconomic conditions. A small TA operation



           --



38The decline in mortgage lending continued also during the PFSAL I1period. The FSAP Update
acknowledged that the Colombian mortgage portfolio had shrunk from what it was before the crisis at
percent GDP to about half. On the positive side, the ICR for PFSAL I1reports that housing finance started
to slowly expand again in 2005.
39The FSAP Update internal memorandum found private capital markets slow, due to scarcity of local
investment securities and weaknesses in clearance and settlement systems The ICR for PFSAL I1 shows a
continuous decline in the number of new issues of equities and private sector bonds between 2000 (21
issues in total) and 2004 (11 issues).
40This raises the question as to whether these aspects of the PFSALs could not have been better attended to
through a TA or similar project more specifically focused on institutional and capacity building (see later
discussion in the Assessment section).
41The projection in the program document, however, was for a higher deficit, of 2.4 percent of GDP. It
should also be noted that the large reduction in the consolidated public sector deficit was largely as a result
of surplusesin the sub-nationalentities; the central government deficit remained around 5 percent.

(of the type that had been approvedjust before the 1998crisis) would have been at least
as appropriate.

5.21     In spite of the changed country conditions, the momentum of the Programmatic
approach and the country assistance strategy lending targets led to the preparation and
approval of PFSAL I1in 2004,42with only two small adjustments: the loan size was
reduced to $100 million (instead of the $150 million planned in the country assistance
strategy and mentioned in the Program Document of PFSAL I) and the approval date was
moved back by a few months (to September2004), thus making it an FY05 operation
instead of FY04 as previously planned. The PFSAL I1became effective, and was hlly
disbursed, in October 2004.

5.22     Design of PFSAL I1followed closely the program outlined under PFSAL I,
covering the same areas of: (i) banking regulation and resolution (regulatory framework,
supervisionof consolidated financial groups, supervision,risk management and
sanctions, assessmentof remaining vulnerabilities and further liquidation of state-owned
banks); (ii) housingfinance (micro-housingcredit, swap options to mortgage banks from
risks emanating from Constitutional court decisions, and mortgage securitization);
(iii) insurance,pension and Trust industries (regulatory framework including risk
analysis and investments diversification);(iv) capital markets (Securities law, mutual
funds regulation, valuation methodology),and (v) government debt and money markets
(to improve the functioning of the market for the very large volume of treasury bills).
Once again, in this list of activities, legislation and regulations already issued, or acted
upon, by the government, there is no discussion of the need for, or possibility of,
elimination of the financial transactions tax.

5.23     Implementation and outcomes. PFSAL 11,for $100 million, was approved on
September23, 2004 (somewhat later than anticipated). It was declared effective (and
disbursed)in October 2004 and closed on March 31,2005. As in the case of the PFSAL
I, PFSAL I1was a single tranche operation with all conditions met at approval. Thus
implementationof PFSAL I1can better be seen in terms of the initial outcomes and
related performance of the sector. The PFSAL I1program document included a set of
"quantifiable results" and sector performance indicators at the time of approval. The list,
however, lumped a disparate set of program outputs (e.g., divestment of banking assets
by the government,FOGAFIN inflation hedge for mortgage borrowers), issuance of new
regulations (e.g., in the insurance sector), and sector performance indicators (e.g.,
banking sector profitability, non-performingassets of the banking sector, volume of
treasurybills issued). For these performance indicators, the question of attribution is
important: for example, the health of the banking sector is also highly correlated with the
improved economic situation discussed above.

5.24     A more relevant assessment of the outputs and outcomes of the program, and of
each of the two PFSALs, is presented in the ICR for PFSAL I1(of 2005). The
conclusionsof this very good ICR can be summarized as follows:


42Another, larger quick disbursement loan was also approved two months later: The Programmatic Labor
Adjustment Loan, for $200 million, approved in November 2004.

          The overall outcome of the program was favorable, although the program includes
          many medium term goals that have not yet been fully realized;
          The banking sectorperformance continued to improve through 2004, indicating
          that recovery from the crisis is on a sustainablepath; the recovery is largely due to
          the resumption of growth, lower interest rates (but stable margins), the exit or
          restructuring of non-performing assets in previous years, and the bank
          recapitalizationprogram;
          The track record on bad loan recovery, managing weak banks and downsizing and
          privatizing state-ownedbanks43was good and the fiscal liabilities were reduced,
          but some vulnerabilitiesremain;
          The health of the housing finance portfolio increased but origination of new
          mortgages remains limited; interest rates on mortgages (including for social
          priority housing) have started to decline, and housing banks have startedto
          diversify their assets;
          The outcome in capital markets has been mixed to date, even after the new
          Securities Law was approved in July 2005 (after closing of PFSAL II);44
          The insurance industry shows only a marginally improving trend in terms of
          capitalization and level of activity; and
          The domestic debt market has benefited greatly from the improved fiscalpolicy, a
          more favorablemacroeconomic environment and better institutional
          arrangements.

5.25      Another relevant assessmentof the financial sector after the completion of
PFSAL I1 is presented in the final report of the Joint Bank-IMF FSAP Update of 2005.45
The update concludes: "Prudent macroeconomicpolicies, structuralreforms, and a
favorable external environmenthave permitted the economy to recover graduallybut
steadily from the 1999 crisis", but it also notes a number of remaining vulnerabilities that
casts doubt on the appropriatenessof the Bank's approach, in the 2002 country assistance
strategy, based on the two one tranche PFSALs over a two year period when many of the
vulnerabilities may persist for a longer time.

5.26      The main issues highlighted in the FSAP update include: (i) the replacement of
private sector loans with government bonds in bank balance sheets, which has altered the
nature of the risks confrontingthe banking sector and represents a lingering legacy of the
crisis; (ii) remaining weaknesses in the legal and regulatory framework (including lack of
sufficient autonomy by the Superintendencyof Banks); (iii) a corporate insolvency
regime introduced during the 1999crisis (Law 550) that has not yet been replaced by new
instruments more favorable to financialintermediation; (iv) the distortionaryimpact of
the financial transactions tax; (v) lack of recovery of mortgage lending; (vi) weaknesses

43One of the remaining two public banks slated for privatization (Granahorrar)was eventuallyprivatized
after PFSAL I1 closure, on October 31, 2005. Privatizationof the other (Bancafe-now       GranBanco)failed
twice because of lack of bidders. The government plans to offer it again for sale, after some fk-ther
restructuringin 2007.
44The ICR notes, correctly, that "The new Securities law, which was recently approved, will likely not have
a measurable effect on market activiq in the short run, although it is expected to eflectively reduce some of
the existing barriers to market entry over the medium-term "(ICR, paragraph 57).
45IMF Country Report No. 051287 of August 2005.

in the new risk-based approach to bank provisioning (potential underestimation of
provisioning and capital requirements is still of concern); (vii) remaining issues with the
pension system; and (viii) low liquidity and insufficient depth of the capital markets.46

5.27     While the conclusions of the FSAP Update suggest that the remaining agenda is
still considerable,the country assistance strategyprogress report of September 2005 is
silent about financial sector issues. The "Recent Economic Development and Prospects"
section has no mention of the financial sector, and the "Political Developments" section
has a passing reference to recent legislative activity (approval of the Securities Law).47


Assessment of the Program

5.28     Quality at entry. The re-emergence of a potential crisis situation at the time of the
preparation of the program (second half of 2002)justified the decision to support further
reforms through programmatic adjustment lending. Yet, the need to address a
combinationof "mopping up" issues from the earlier crisis, other short term measures for
crisis prevention, and longer term institutional developmentobjectives would have been
better served with a longer program (either including more than two PFSALs or spacing
them over a longer period of time-e.g.,         five years). Bank support would have also
benefited from a parallel TA operation andlor a combination of analytical work and
institutional developmentassistance to continue the work of the FSAP, and to support the
medium term reforms in a more sustained manner.48

5.29     In addition, the very ambitious program for the financial sector put forward in the
2002 country assistance strategy was constrainedbecause of the proposed timing of the
two operations, and the program failed to address the distortions caused by the financial
transactions tax. Overall,however, the quality at entry for PFSAL I is rated as
satisfactory.For PFSAL 11the design was adapted to benefit fiom updated analysis of
the sector and quality at entry is also rated as satisfactory.

5.30     Relevance. As noted above, the conditions at the time of preparation of PFSAL I,
and the analysis in the 2002 country assistance strategy made this program an important
component of the Bank's assistance to Colombia. Thus, relevance of the PFSAL I is
rated as substantial.By the time of the preparation of PFSAL 11,however, the changed
conditions of 2004 required a reassessment of the program, at a time when high capital
inflows were creatingproblems of appreciation of the peso. A change in the program, by
delayingthe PFSAL 11,converting it into several smaller operations, more spaced in time,
and/or adding a TA-type project to continue the technical support for the medium term
reforms in the sector would have been much more appropriate. Thus relevance of
PFSAL 11is rated as modest.


46The FSAP update also includes a detailed set of recommendationsto deal with the pending issues.
47The section on IFC activities in the CAS PR has somereferences to the sector as context for the specific
IFC interventions.
48Other possible optionsto support institutionaldevelopment in the financial sector include grants from the
InstitutionalDevelopment Fund (IDF), and from the FIRST program, intendedto follow up on the work of
the FSAP.

5.31   Outcome.Outcome of the different componentshas been summarized above,
showing a similar pattern across componentsand for the two operations: it was
satisfactoryfor the banking sector componentin both operations, including their
regulatory frameworkand supervision,overall improvement and liquidation and
privatization of public banks (althoughwith delays); only moderately satisfactory for the
housing finance sector, particularly for PFSAL 11,because, although the performance of
the sector improved,mortgage financingcontinuedto decrease and the expected increase
in mortgage lending for low income housing, (an important expected outcome of PFSAL
11)did not materialize, satisfactory for the other financial intermediaries and the domestic
debt market, and only moderately satisfactoryfor the capital markets component (as new
issues continued to decline during the PFSAL I1period).

5.32   Although the pattern of outcomes of the different components is similar under
each of the two operations, the achievementswere higher under PFSAL I than PFSAL 11:
for example,major improvements in the banking sector took place already under PFSAL
I and the expected improvements in micro-housingcredit under PFSAL I1were not
achieved. In addition, as noted above, the relevance of PFSAL I was higher than that of
PFSAL 11.Because of the above, the outcome of PFSAL I is rated as satisfactory and the
outcome for PFSAL 11is rated as moderately satisfactory.

5.33   Institutional development is rated substantial for both, PFSAL I and PFSAL 11,
and sustainability of the achievementsunder the program is rated likely for the two
operations.

5.34   Bankperformance for both PFSAL I,andPFSAL 11,is rated as satisfactory.
Bank performance during preparation of PFSAL 11,however, failed to address more
substantivelythe changed country conditions at the time.

5.35   Borrowerperformance was satisfactory during PFSAL I and PFSAL 11.There
were delays in implementation in at least two areas (approval of the Securities law and
privatization of public banks), but the delays were largely due to delays in the
parliamentarydiscussion and approval in one case and to lack of market demand in the
other.

6.      Lessons

6.1     The experiencewith the four operations reviewed in this PPAR shows a
remarkable turnaround in both the government's approach, policy response, and
regulatory and institutional framework in the financial sector, and in the Bank's
analyticalknowledge of the sector.Mainly thanks to the early and effective government
response, a systemic financial crisis was avoided and the financial sector today, although
still smaller in number of institutions and total assets than before the crisis, is much
stronger and well regulated. In addition, the Colombian economyhas recovered and the
economic policies of the government have managed to put an end to the persistent
double-digit inflation that was a characteristicof the Colombian economy for three
decades. The success in lowering inflation has eliminated an important vulnerability of
the financial sector. Unfortunately,however, the other major macroeconomic source of
vulnerability, i.e., the fiscal deficit, remains a problem that needs to be addressed.

6.2     On the Bank's side, the progress in its analytical understanding of the sector, and
in its contribution to addressingits problems has also been substantial. Both analytical
understanding and support to addressingthe problems were low at the onset and during
the first year of the crisis but improved considerably after mid-1999. In the most recent
years, however, the narrow definition of the programmatic approach adopted in 2002 has
reduced the opportunities for continuing support to the sector (as well as reducing the
relevance of PFSAL 11). In additionto the many specific lessons derived from the
operations, and from the analyticalwork during the period (including under the FSAP),
five more general lessons emerge from this review:

        Accurate, up-to-date sector information and analytical knowledge is criticalfor
        an adequate support to theJinancialsector: an outdated assessment of the sector
        by 1997made the FMDTA irrelevant and blindsided the Bank to the
        vulnerabilities of the financial sector. It also slowed down the Bank's response
        after the onset of the crisis.
        Agility and quick reaction to crises requires adequate technical resources and
        streamlined decision-making:the Bank compounded its inadequateprior
        knowledge of the sector in 1998by allocating insufficient technical/human
        resources until thejoint FSAP was launched, and by slow and bureaucratic
        decision-making in the face of urgent client demands.
        Agility,flexibility, and openness to change are also crucial during implementation
        of aproject orprogram:during implementation of FMDTA, the inadequate
        starting point could have been partly remedied by earlier, and deeper restructuring
        to face the new conditions on the ground; during implementation of the FSALs,
        improved economic conditions and slow progress in some areas (housing finance,
        capital markets) could have been better addressed (even in the absence of a TA
        project) through a change in the secondphase of the program (e.g. by splitting
        PFSAL I1into two smaller, more spaced operations implemented over a longer
        period of time).

Exploiting the synergies among different Bank instruments is crucial: technical
assistanceoperations and adjustment lending can reinforce each other when they
are part of a coordinated sector intervention(and based on adequate analytical
work). In Colombia, an outdated TA project was only belatedly and marginally
linked to the FSAL; during the short period of the PFSALs (and after them) there
was no TA vehicle on the ground to continuethe support.
A programmatic approach tojinancial sector reforms is likely to require a time
horizon of severalyears to allowfor policy and institutional reforms to be
translated into outcomes and results:the two-phase single year approach of the
PFSALs was too short to address the complex second- and third-generation issues
facing Colombia's financial sector.


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

Financial Markets Development TechnicalAssistance
(TF-22479;SCL-41960)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                 Appraisal       Actual or               Actual as % of
                                 estimate         current estimate       appraisal estimate

Originalcommitment               15.00            8.19                   54.6
Total cancellation               --               6.81                   --
Total projectcost                20               11.7                   58.5
Cancellation                     --               6.81                   -



Proiect Dates
                                 Original                         Actual

Departureof Appraisal Mission    11/15/1996                       1111511996
Boardapproval                    0611911997                       0611911997

Signing                          07/29/1997                       07/29/1997

Effectiveness                    06/30/1996                       11/21/1997

Closingdate                      02/28/2002                       12/31/2003



Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate

                                 fP' Staff weeks                 US$US$(OOO)

IdentificationI Preparation      45.3                            124.0

Appraisal / Negotiations         45.2                            88.6
Supervision                      72.6                            188.0

ICR                              4.5                             19.2
Total                            167.6                           419.8

Mission Data
                                                                            Performance
                    Date     No. of Staff days      Specializations           Ratings
                (month/year) persons  in field        represented
                                                                         Rating   Typesof
                                                                          trend   ~roblems

Identification1 411994      2       --         Task Manager (1);
Preparation                                    Capital Markets
                                               Specialist(1)
                                               Task Manager (1);
                                               Banking Consultant (1);
                                               Capital Markets
                                               Specialist(1)
                                               Task Manager (1);
                                               FinancialSpecialist(1);
                                               ProcurementSpecialist
                                               (1); Bank Supervision
                                               Specialist(1)
Appraisal 1     511997      5                  Task Manager (1); Legal
Negotiations                                   (1); FinancialSpecialist
                                               (1); DisbursementOfficer
                                               (1); Procurement
                                               Specialist(1)

Supervision     0611911998  2       --         Task Manager (1);
                                               Consultant(1)
                0411711999  1       --         FinancialSector (1)

                0211012000  4       --         Task Manager (1);
                                               Banking(I); Financial
                                               Sector (1); Operations (1)

                0611012000  2       --         Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1); Financial
                                               Sector (1)
                0811012000  1       --         Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1)
                04/06/2001  2       --         Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1); Financial
                                               Sector (1)
                0112512002  2       --         Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1); Banking
                                               Specialist (1)

                1211012003  2       --         FinancialSector (1) ;
                                               Capital Markets (1)

Completion      05/02/2003  1       -          Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1)
                12/15/2003  1       -          Task Manager1Financial
                                               Sector (1); Banking
                                               Consultant

Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(FSLT-70000)

Kev Proiect Data famounts in US$million)
                                                                                           % of
                                              estimate     current estimate      appraisal estimate

Original commitment                           500         500                    100
Total cancellation                            --          --                     --
Total project cost                            --          --                     --
Cancellation                                  --          --                     --




Project Dates
                                             Oriainal                      Actual

Departure of Appraisal Mission

Boardapproval
Signing
Effectiveness
Closingdate




Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                                       Actual/Latest Estimate

                                  Staff weeks                     USSUSS('OO0J

IdentificationI Preparation    17.0
Appraisal INegotiations        16.0
Supervision                    20.6
ICR                            6.0

Mission Data
                                                                           Performance
                    Date     No. of Staff days      Specializations           Ratings
                (month/year) persons  in field       represented         Rating   Types of
                                                                         trend   p~oblems

Identification1 111999      1       --         Task Manager (I)/        --      --
Preparation                                    FinancialSector1
                                               Economist

                311999      3                  Task Manager (I)/        --      --
                                               FinancialSectorl
                                               Economist; Banking (1);
                                               Housing Finance (1)

                511999      5                  BankingRestructuring     --      --
                                               (1); Task Manager (I)/
                                               FinancialSector; Banking
                                               Supervision(1); Housing
                                               Finance (1); Securities
                                               Market (1)

Appraisal I 1011999         4                  Task Manager (I)/        --       --
Negotiations                                   FinancialSectorl
                                               Economist; Treasury
                                               Operations (1); Financial
                                               Management(1); Legal
                                               (1)
Supervision     1211999      1                 Task Manager (I)/        S        S
                                               FinancialSectorl
                                               Economist

                512000       5                 Banking(1); Housing(1); S         S
                                               Finance (1); Capital
                                               Markets (1); Task
                                               Manager (1)1Financial
                                               Sectorl Economist
                                               Task Manager (I)/         HS      HS
                                               FinancialSector1
                                               Economist; Housing
                                               Finance(1); Banking
                                               Restructuring(1);
                                               Banking Supervision(1)

                612001       3                 Task Manager (I)/         HS      HS
                                               FinancialSectorl
                                               Economist; Banking (1);
                                               Housing Finance (1)

Completion                   2       --        BankinglEwnomist (1);     HS      S
                                               FinancialSector
                                               Specialist(1)

First Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustrnent Loan
(Loan No. 7167-CO)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                               Ao~raisal      Actual or              Actual as % of
                                               esiirnate      current estimate       appraisal estimate

Original commitment                            150            150                    100
Total cancellation

Total projectcost

Cancellation


Project Dates
                                            Original                          Actual

Departureof Appraisal Mission               1111212002                        03/27/2003
Board approval                              --                                04/24/2003

Signing                                     --                                05/28/2003

Effectiveness                               06/04/2003                        06/04/2003

Closingdate                                 06/30/2003                        06/30/2003



Staff Inputs (staff weeks)*
                                                          Actual/Latest Estimate

                              N" Staff weeks                          USJUSS('OO0)

IdentificationIPreparation
AppraisalINegotiations

Supervision

ICR
Total
* Not Available




                     Date     No. of     Staff days     Specializations         Performance Ratings
                 (month/year) persons     in field       represented      Rating trend  Types of problems

Identification1
Preparation

AppraisalI
Negotiations

Supervision

Completion


* NotAvailable


Second Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
(TF-52531; FSLT-72580)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                 Appraisal          Actual or           Actual as % of
                                                  estimate       current estimate      appraisal estimate

Originalcommitment                             100            100                    100
Total cancellation                             --            --                      --
Total projectcost
Cancellation




Project Dates
                                             Original                         Actual

Departure of Appraisal Mission               --                               0811812004

Boardapproval                                09/23/2004                       09/23/2004

Signing                                      09/24/2004                       09/27/2004

Effectiveness                                10/04/2004                       10/04/2004

Closingdate                                  03/31/2005                       03/31/2005



Staff Inputs (staffweeks)
                                                          Actual/Latest Estimate

                               N' Staff weeks                        US$US$(`OOO)

Identification/ Preparation    44.12                                 180.7
AppraisalI Negotiations        1                                     4.5

Supe~ision                     5.67                                  18.5

ICR                            10.7                                  31.5

Total                          61.49                                 235.6

Mission Data
                                                                            Performance
                   Date      No. of  Staff days    Specializations            Ratings
                (month/year) persons  in field      represented
                                                                        Rating    Types of
                                                                          trend   problems
Identification1 0812003     4       --         Team Leader(1);         -         -
Preparation                                    FinancialOfficer (1);
                                               Insurance Specialist(1);
                                               Housing Finance
                                               Specialist(1)
                1212003     3       --         Team Leader (1);         --       -
                                               FinancialOfficer (1);
                                               Housing Finance
                                               Specialist(1)
                0212004     3       --         Team Leader (1);         --       -
                                               FinancialEconomist(2)
Appraisal1      0812004     3       --         Team Leader (1);         --       -
Negotiations                                   FinancialEconomist(1);
                                               Lawyer (1)
Supervision     1112004     3       --         Team Leader (1); Team    S        S
                                               Member (1); Legal
                                               Specialist(1)
                1212004     3       --         Team Leader(1); Team     S        S
                                               Member (1); Consultant
                                               (1
                0112005     2       --         Team Leader(1); Sr.      S        S
                                               FinancialEconomist(I)
Completion      0812005     1       -          Consultant               --       -

                0912005     1       --         Team Member              --       --

                1012005     1       -          Team Leader              --       -

 Annex B. Key Objectives


                       FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                           (FSLT-70000)
 Indicator                                       ActuaVLatest Estimate


L
 I. Maintain a satisfactory Macroeconomic        Government's macroeconomic program on target;
   Framework                                     inflation and interest rates down significantly,
                                                 contributing to a more stable financial system.


 11. Strengthen the Legal, Regulatory and        Amended Law passed in 1999:enhances ability of
    Institutional Framework of the Financial     regulators to act quickly and take corrective
    System                                       measures to prevent systemic problems and support
                                                 sustainable growth.

                                                1Capital adequacy ratios of the banking system
                                                 increased significantly, thus improving the system's
                                                 ability to withstand economic shocks and
                                                 downturns.



                                                 "institutionalrecovery programs" contributed to
                                                 reduced incidence of bank failures and avoidance of
                                                 systemic crisis.

                                                 Greater depth of regulatory norms and increased
                                                 effectiveness in their implementation and in
                                                 supervision efforts by SBC and FOGAFIN which
                                                 has reduced systemic risk. Market based burden
                                                 sharing mechanisms implemented to absorb risks
                                                 via sale of mechanisms implemented to absorb risks
                                                 via sale of assets.


 111. Restructuring and Resolution of State-     New Banco, Agrariohas improved the quality of the
     Owned Banks                                 loan portfolio of public sector banks.



                                                 has substantially reduced the presence of the
                                                 Government in the financial sector and increased
                                                 the efficiency of the system and prospects for
                                                 sustainable growth.



                                                 has contributed to greater efficiency in financial
                                                 intermediationby passing on greater participation to
                                                sprivate sector banks.


 IV. Reform of the Cooperatives System           By applying same rules to financial cooperatives as
                                                 those applied to other intermediaries, inherent
                                                 structural weakness of this sub-sector has been
                                                 largely diminished. The current seven financial
                                                 coo eratives are in the rocess of diversif in their

Indicator                                 ActuaVLatest Estimate



                                          business into other asset / liabilityproducts in line
                                          with their competitivestrengths.


V. Rationalization of Special Programs    FOGAFIN has been able to increase its efficiencyas
  Implemented by FOGAFIN                  it has increased the number of financial
                                          intermediariesparticipating in specialprograms
                                          without detracting from its basic deposit insurance
                                          functions. The specialprograms have provided
                                          temporary support while financialinstitutions
                                          become more strongly capitalized.

            FIRST PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                              (LoanNo. 716 7 4 0 )
           SECOND PROGRAMMATIC FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
                                          (TF-52531;FSLT-72580)
      Objectives           ActualILatest Estimates of PFSAL 1                 ActualILatest Estimates of PFSAL 2

                       I                                                  I
I. Bank Regulation and Resolution

Implementationof a      Law 795 approved in January 2003. Specific           The net return on average earning assets of
reformed law to ensure  measures as follows: (a) Article 13,and Circular     the banking system increased from 1.1% at
sustainabilityof the    007; (b) Articles 12 and 13; (c) Articles 12 and     end-2002 to 2.7% by May 2004.
financial system        45: (d) Articles 81 and 82; (e) Articles 6 and 26;
Policy Objective:       and (0Articles 32, 33, and 45. Some 30 decrees
Upgrading the Banking   and regulationshave been issuedby SB and
Regulatory,             MOF to proceed with the implementationof the
Supervisory, and        new rules establishedby Law 795 includingthe
Institutional           procedures for consolidated supervision.New
Framework               credit risk managementsystem (SARC)based
                        on External Circular 011,2002 in process of
                        implementation.

                        Extensive regulations set forth concerningthe        The non performing loans ratio decreased
                        reporting of financialtransactions as specified in   from 13.6%to 9.2% same period. During
                        External Circular25 as per Law 795.                  the same period.


                        As per Law 795 the specified areas were              The capital adequacyratio (capital as a % of
                        covered as follows:(a) Articles 11, 12,28, and       risk weighted assets) increased from 12.5%
                        29; (b) Article 28 f. g, h, and 1:and(c) Article     to 14.5%during a period in which stricter
                        28.                                                  capital and loan classification standards
                                                                            Iwere implemented.
                        In addition to the carve-out procedures,Article     IThe Banking Superintendency,between
                        7,29,30, and 31 and SB ~ e c r e e1335address        May 2003 and June 2004, applies fifty three
                        the winding down of a financial institution.         sanction actions and penalties to credit
                                                                             institutionsthat were not complying with
                                                                            Ilegal and prudential norms.
                        Commitment letter to the Bank confirmed,and         IThe Banking Superintendenthas approved a
                        study currently underway.                            modified regulatory circular to incorporate
                                                                             procedures for monitoring, assuring
                                                                             oversight, and conducting consolidated
                                                                             supervisionof financial conglomerates
                                                                             related party businesses, and computationof
                                                                             effectivecapital of financial institutions
                                                                             within conglomerates, and has subjected the
                                                                             draft regulation for review by the financial
                                                                            Iindustryand the SV.
                        Transfer of IF1assets to BANCOLDEX                  IThe SB has developed its internalrisk
                        completedas per shareholder assembly.                assessmentprocedures for evaluating
                                                                             vulnerabilitiesof supervised financial
                                                                             institutionsand prioritizing the SB's
                                                                             inspectionprogram commensuratewith
                                                                             SB's human and budgetary resource base
                                                                             and capacity.
                        Privatizationprocess of BANCAFE has                  The SB has developed an actionplan
                        proceeded with public bid requests issued            specifyingthe human, budgetary and time

                       including: (i) sale of 51 % of the bank to a       resources required to complete technical
                       strategic investor; (ii) sale of the remaining 49% reviews of banks' internal credit risk
                       of shares to the public: and (iii) strategic       management models which incorporate
                       investor to buy unsold shares.                     Base1I1 orientations, allowing for full
                                                                          implementation in a prescribed period
                                                                          commensurate with SB's human and
                                                                          budgetary resource base and capacity.

11. Housing Finance

Strengtheningthe       (a) Law 794 enacted in January 2003 including      The FOGAFIN administered inflation
Housing Finance Sector the relevant Articles: 124, 300,315,424, and       hedge for mortgage borrowers, was
and Expansion of the   501; (b) Decree 710 issued stating procedures      implemented with 15,000 subscribers
Mortgage Market        for micro-credit from commercialbanks through      covering loans up to US$135 million
Policy Objective:      finance companies; (c) Decrees 775, 777, and       equivalent.
Upgradingthe           779 and External Circular 22 of 2003 provide
RegulatO@perational    the basis for housing lease finance. The
Framework of the
                       streamline of banking foreclosureprocedures is
Mortgage Market and
                       expected to significantlyreduce delays in
Improving Access to
                       executing a foreclosure.
Credit
                       (a) Law 795, Article 96 and Decree 66 establish    Thirty issues of mortgage backed securities
                       the guidelines for the FOGAFIN swap.               were completed in 2003 for a total of US$
                       FOGAFIN has issued External Circular 001 for       700 million equivalent. In June 2004, the
                       2003 providing detailed guidelines for financial   first issue of non performing asset backed
                       intermediaries. In addition, informational         securities (US$ 64 million) took place.
                       literature has been developed for consumers
                       explaining the swap protection program; (b) the
                       Central Bank has also adopted and published
                       procedures whereby financial intermediaries can
                       utilize mortgage backed securities in REPO
                       operations.
                                                                          A comprehensive assessment of the tax
                                                                          incentives affecting the overall housing
                                                                          finance sector has been completed by the
                                                                          MOF, including sequenced proposals to
                                                                          improve their consistency, efficiency and
                                                                          targeting, which will constitute elements of
                                                                          policy actions for future reforms.

                                                                          The MoF and the Central Bank restructure
                                                                          the FRECH swap hedge into an interest rate
                                                                          options product, after an agreement on the
                                                                          actuarial methodology and pricing
                                                                          parameters reached with the mortgage
                                                                          finance industry, and contracts are
                                                                          subscribed with mortgage banks to protect
                                                                          against interest rate risk.

                                                                          The FRECH liquidity fund to permit
                                                                          mortgage securities access to REPO
                                                                          markets is fully approved and operational.

111.Non-Bank Financial Institutions (Insurance, Pension, Trusts)

Strengthening          Law 795 adopted the appropriate language as        Regulations on solvency margins and
Regulatory Framework   follows: (a) Articles 17 and 43: (b) Articles 5    technical reserves for the insurance
and Financial          and 16 and Decree number 1222:and (c) Article      industry, by branch of business, have been

Soundness of the         New capital standards are expected to be          drafted by the Insurance arm of the SB, and
Insurance, Trusts, and   enforced as of January 2004.                      approved by the Bank Superintendent
Pension Industries                                                         subject to the final review of the insurance
Policy Objective:                                                          industry and actuarial experts.
Upgrading the Regulatory                                                   The SB has provided a policy response on
Framework for Risk                                                         each core principle with respect to the
Management and Capital
                                                                           evaluation report of insurance sector
Adequacy ojthe Non Bank
                                                                           regulation and its adherence to core
Financial Service
Institutions                                                               principles for supervision.


IV. Capital Markets
Modernizingthe           Both SB and SV have issued regulations            Twenty-eight public offerings of securities
Legislative Frameworkfor governing valuation of securities, including the  were made in 2003 for an amount of
the SecuritiesMarket     classification of holdings and the treatment of   US$1.8 billion equivalent, an increase of
Policy Objective:
                         gains and losses. The Borrower has also           19%with respect to the previous year.
Upgrading the Regulatory
                         developed a methodology to establish a yield
Framework for the
                         curve used as a basis for valuation of other non-
Governance,
T~~~~~~~~~~~  operationsliquid  securities. The Colombian Stock
and Liquidity of the     Exchange publishes a daily price vector which is
Securities Market        to be used by financialintermediaries in the
                         valuation of their investment portfolios.
                         Both SB and SV have signed a memorandum of        Specific reporting requirements pertaining
                         understanding for mutual collaboration. The       to both credit rating and market risk ratings,
                         procedures forjoint supervision are being         have been established for the mutual funds
                         worked out.                                       and collective investment scheme
                                                                           industries.
                                                                           Uniform asset valuation standards and
                                                                           methodologies have been established by
                                                                           regulation for private sector fixed income
                                                                           securities.

V. The Government Debt and Money Markets

Upgrading the Policy     (a) As per Law 795, Article 16, and External      A program of weekly issuance of 90 days
and Operational          Circular issued by the Central Bank regarding     T-bills has been implemented with issuance
Framework for the        the purchase of on-the-run securities; (b)        authorization expanded from COP 5 billion
Government Securities    resolution regulating primary dealers was         (US$ 1.9 mn. equivalent) in January 2003 to
Market                   issued; and (c) Resolutions 964 and 1047 were     COP 80 billion (US$ 31 mn equivalent). 90
Policy Objective:        issued to regulate the valuation of domestic      day T-bills issued in 2003 amounted to US$
Implementation of a      treasury securitiesbased on the methodology       238 mn. and 180day T-bills were US$ 34
Public Debt Issuance     used in estimating a yield curve that is to apply mn. In 2004 through July, 90 day T-bill
Strate&?'to Improve the  in the case of non-liquid segments of the market. issuance was US$661 mn.
Functioning ojthe Fixed
Income Market
Responsible Government
Agencies: DGCP, SV, BR
                                                                           Provisions legislating legal finality for
                                                                           repurchase, short term collateralized loan
                                                                           instruments and securities swap
                                                                           transactions, have been incorporated in the
                                                                           new Securities Law presented to Congress.


Annex C. List of People Met


Colombian Officials

Jorge Castellanos      Ex-President of FOGAFIN
Sergio Clavijo         Ex-Vice Minister of Finance
Sara Ordonez           Ex-Superintendentof Banks
Jorge Pinzon           Ex-Superintendentof Companies and Ex-Superintendent
                       of Banks
Leonardo Villar        Director, Banco de la Republica
Hernando Vargas        Deputy Governor,Banco de la Republica
Jose Leibovitch        Director of Research, Banco de la Republica
Alejandro Gamboa       Director Credito Publico, Ministry of Finance
Javier Arias           Acting President, CISA
Enrique Valderrama     Superintendentof Cooperatives (Economia Solidaria)



Private Sector

Patricia Cardenas      President,Banking Association
Alejandro Figueroa     President,Banco de Bogota
Juan Pablo Cordoba     President, Colombia Stock Exchange
Javier Fernandez       Economic Consultant



Bank Group Staff

Fernando Montes-Negret SectorDirector
Guillerrno Perry       Chief Economist
Krishna Challa         Sector Leader and Task Team Leader
Alberto Chueca-Mora    OperationsAdviser
John D. Pollner        Task Team Leader
Mariluz Cortes         Consultant


