Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
Rqwot No. P-6109 -N)R
MEORANDUM AMID       E     ON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMT
TO TIHE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN MOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$6.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
AUGUST 16, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P- 6109 MOR
Type: PR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1 = DR 8.77
DH 1 -US$0.11
FISCAL YBAR
January 1 - December 31
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BOD               Biological Oxygen Demand
CAC               Command and Control
CD-ROM            Compact Disc
COD               Chemical Oxygen Demand
EEC               European Economic Community
EIA               Environment Impact Assessment
EMP               Environmental Management Project
EMU               Environment Management Unit
GTZ               German Development Agency
ha                Hectare
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
IT                Implementation Team
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
MAAR              Ministry of Agriculture and Agricultural Reform
METAP             Mediterranean Environmental Technical Assistance Programme
MI                Ministry of Interior and Information
MPW               Ministry of Public Works
NBF               Not Bank Financed
NCE               National Council of the Environment
NEIN              National Environment Information Network
PIU               Project Implementation Unit
RB                Roll-Back
REC               Regional Environmental Council
sws               Staff Weeks
Swede-Corp        Swedish International Enterprise Development Corporation
UNCED             United Nations Conference and Environment and Development
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
UNESCO            United Nations Education and Scientific Organization
USE               Under Secretariat of the Environment
WHO               World Health Organization



* FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ENVIRONNENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUNMARY
Borrower:                    Kingdom of Morocco
Executing Agency:            Under Secretariat of the Environment (USE)
Loan Amount:                 US$6.0 million equivalent
Terms:                       Repayment in 20 years, including a 5-year grace
periol, with interest at the Bank's standard
variable rate
Financing Plan:              IBRD:                   US$6.0 million
Kingdom of Morocco:    USS4.8 million
Total                  US$10.8 million
Economic Rate
of Return:                   Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:      None. A Technical Annex is attached
Poverty Category:            Not Applicable
Environmental Classification: C
It  tl blad on go fndings an appraisal m 1i Dpl 15. TIla mission  composed wciSt of    (MiAon £Meu
EMTO l_ Rrs unt Mn. YoGa Egudl 104I) ad RglW lI Moeom Mn  Mss MI_lood AVUb. ed A Anli*
Depseioh "MsJoll  in(IAI) aid Mihu s.(IWUWS). Mi. V-vh tnoW(EMTEN pm    t.-hi Urn
peoducolnon c srpoL 7hisgpedmsdiled yM&. MiohellS Debt (II)
_d L  tSdw= M O_4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lctm



- I -
EMRANDUM AND RECOMQENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEWOPNENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJZCT
1.   The following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed loan to the
Kingdom of Morocco for US$6 million equivalent is submitted for your approval.
The proposed loan would be repayable over 20 years, including 5 years of
grace, at the Bank's variable interest rate. The Kingdom of Morocco would be
the Borrower and the Under Secretariat of the Environment (USE) would be the
Executing Agency.
2.   Backgron.  As a result of the rapid industrialization and
urbanization, Morocco faces a number of natural resources management and
environmental pollution issues. The natural resources problems consist of:
(a) water scarcity - water deficits are predicted to appear in several regions
by the year 2000 and countrywide by the year 2020: (b) soil degradation due to
erosion, salt accumulation and drifting sands threatening 12.4 million ha
representing one third of the total agricultural surface; erosion is also
causing rapid soil sedimentation of 50 million m3 reducing total dam yearly
capacity by 0.4%; (c) deforestation estimated at 50,000 ha per year due to
erosion and unsound agricultural and forestry practices; (d) loss of fauna and
flora resulting in the disappearance of 40 mammal species among the 100
identified. The pollution problems are: (a) urban pollution due to only
partial connection of households and industries to a sewerage system (35% of
the total population and 652 of the urban population), discharge of untreated
waste into the water system and uncontrolled dumping of municipal solid waste;
(b) ind¶ustrial pollution from the discharge of an estimated 10,000 tons per
year of liquid effluent into the Sebou and Oum Rabia rivers, and quantities of
uranium and cadmium discharged from fertilizer plants into the Atlantic Ocean;
(c) agricultural pollution due to the concentrated use of unbiodegradable
pesticides on irrigated perimeters (12 percent of the total agricultural land)
and the lack of facilities to properly store or dispose of chemical
substances; and (d) air pollution due principally to urban transport and the
use of leaded gasoline.
3.   There is now an urgent need to address cross-sectoral environmental
issues for which environmental management is a key factor. The Government
also believes that inadequate environmental management may become an obstacle
to economic growth. The institutional and legal framework is highly
fragmented and appears insufficient to address the country's environmental
problems. The Ministry of the Interior and Information is currently in charge
of environmental protection. The Government has also established a National
Council of the Environment (NCE) as an inter-ministerial body for decision
making on inter-sectoral environmental issues. However this council has not
met on a regular basis since 1985. Although the mandate of these instltutions
includes the major functions of environmental management (policies,
regulation, monitoring and enforcement), none of these functions is actually
performed. Furthermore, there are environmental units in only four of the



- 2 -
fourteen key ministries, and they too have no responsibilities for monitoring
and enforcement. These management deficiencies are exacerbated by outdated
and inadequate laws and regulations. Since August 1992, the Government has
provided strong support to the environment. It has estaDolished a new Under
Secretariat of the Environment (USE), reporting directly to the Minister of
the Interior. It has increased the USE budget ten-fold to US$0.5 million and
authorized recruitment of additional staff. It would like to reactivate the
National Council of the Environment now that there is an Under Secretary of
State solely in charge of environmental protection.  A draft environmental law
describing all the major principles on environmental protection was prepared
by the Ministry of Interior and submitted to the Governmcnt Council iu May
1993. In parallel to the environmental law, the Government will prepare two
self executing laws to enforce pollution control: a chemical and toxic wastes
control law and a permit law for intergrated pollution control.  Furthermore,
it has started preparing an Environmental Action Plan, with the assistance of
UNDP/UNESCO, whf.ch will be completed in December 1994.
4. With these new changes, the Government intends to adopt a three-tier
organization structure to environmental management, that would include the
USE, the sector ministries and t'he local government. The USE will be the
agency responsible for policy formulation, coordination, enforcement and
information dissemination. The sector ministries will strengthen their
environmental functions in environmental assessments, audits and introducing
cost effective pollution reduction technologies in their respective sector.
Finally, environmental units will be established at the local government in
order to identify environmental issues and monitor pollution on behalf of the
USE. The Government has requested Bank assistance to help strengthen
environmental institutions on the basis of the new environmental management
structure, to reinforce the legal and regulatory framework and to introduce
the private and public sectors to pollution abatement practices and the
accompenying institutional and legal instruments identified in this project.
In order to clarify its commitment to environmental protection, the Government
has submitted to the Bank. a golicy letter (Technical Annex - Note 1).
describing its objectives for environmental management and a schedule for
implementing priority actions in this area.
5. Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Government's request for Bank
assistance provides a unique opportunity to help shape a regulatory and
Institutional framework, formulate an environmental policy and develop
appropriate economic and financial instruments to ensure the integration of
effective environmental management into Morocco's micro and macro economic
policies. It fits in well with the overall Country Assistance Strategy for
Morocco, discussed in the Board in February 1993. The Bank involvement would
complement other proposed projects in Morocco in the field of water supply,
municipal finance and agriculture, all of which rely on an enhanced capability
of environmental management, including national capacities to carry out
environmental impact assessments. Laying the institutional and legal
foundations for effective application of economic and financial instruments in
environmental planning and management, the proposed project is a critical
element for the Bank's current discussion with the Government of Morocco for a
possible full-fledged investment project in the field of environment, planned
for FY96. In this perspective, the project is the first stand-alone country



lending operation in MNA region to provide the major technical assistance In
onvironmental management; it would not only ^ontribute to ar. integrated
approach in Morocco, but also give an impetus to further shift the region's
conceptual framework toward designing sustainable investment projects.
6.   Progect Objectives   The objective of the project is to assist the
Government in strengthening Its institutional and regulatory framework for
managing environmental protection. It is expected that the establishment of
the needed environmental institutions and full development of the necessary
environmental laws would require a concerted and long term effort spanning
many years. The project, representing the first step of such efforts, will
define the elements for and initiate the process of strengthening the
Government's environmental capacities.
7. Prliect Description. Reinforcing the institutional and lefal framework
to manage environmental grotection. This project will: (a) strengthen the
technical and administrative capacity of the USE as the central environmental
authority, the ministries of Agriculture and Public Works representing the
sector ministrics and the Wilaya (Province) of Fes representing the local
government in order to apply on a pilot basis the decentralized environmental
management process; (b) reactivate the National Council of the Environment to
oversee the environmental 4ctivities of the ministries; (c) reinforce the
legal and regulatory framework by reviewing and updating the existing
regulations, introducing the environmental imract assessment (ZIA) as
mandatory for new investment projects which may have potential adverse
environmental impact and assisting in the preparation of two new laws: the
permit law for integrated pollution control and the chemicals, and the toxic
wastes control law; (d) design an enforcement and compliance mechanism for
environmental protection through adoption of the "command and control,
approach based on norms and standards which are being developed with the
assistance of the German Development Agency (GTZ), for chemical uses and the
"roll back" approach for point sources pollution; (e) finance a series of
studies on economic and financial incentives and measures for environmental
protection and for enabling Morocco to adopt the European standards in
preparation for a potential free trade agreement with the EEC; (f) promote an
environmental education and awareness program outside the formal education
system on the basis of a strategy which is developed with the assisvance of
the German Development Agency; and (g) establish a National Environment
Information Network (NEIN) on a pilot scale in the form of a central
information node at the USE and two service nodes at the Ministries of Public
Works and Agriculture and the Wilaya of Fes.
8.   The project will: (a) provide 272 person-months (pm) of international
and local consultants; (b) organize and implement 33 technical and specialized
workshops which will be attended by 600-800 professionals from the sector
ministries, local government, NGOs and private and public sector consulting
and industrial firms; (c) provide training abroad to 26 professionals in the
different environmental fields of specialization; (d) finance a total of 6
policy, economic, financial and legal studies; and (e) purchase a total amount
of US$1.2 million of computer hardware and software, vehicles, office
equipment and supplies, audio-visual materials, computer maintenance and
access to international databases.



- 4 -
9.   Project Costs and Financing.  The total project cost is estimated at
US$10.8 million equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$6.0 million
(56 percent of the total cost). A breakdown of costs and the financing plan
are shown in Schedule A. Amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement
and the disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. A timetable of key
project processing events and the status of Bank Group operations in Morocco
are given in Schedules C and D, respectively. A Technical Annex is Also
attached.
10. Implementation Arrangements. The proceeds of the loan would be
disbursed over 4.5 years. The USE will be the executing agencv for this
project. The project wlll be coordinated by an inter-ministerial steeri.ng
committee which will be chaired by USE and will include as members the
representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Economic and Social Affairs,
Finance and Public Works. This committee will provide overall policy
guidance, review work programs and resolve any inter-ministerial
implementation issues on this project. A Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
will be established by the USE, and will consist of the project manager and
competent technical and administrative staff. The PIU will be responsible for
the interface between the Bank, the donors and the USE. It will assist the
USE in the day-to-dav management of the institutional and legal framework
component. The Ministries of Agriculture, Public Works and Justice as wall as
the Wilaya of Fes, local NGOs and the private sector consulting firms will all
participate in project implementation. However staff from the Ministries of
Industry, Health, Energy and Mines, Finance, and Economy and Social Affairs
and representatives of the local government of the Provinces/Wilayate and the
private sector will also receive in-country training from this project.
11. Actigns Agreed. The USE has nominated the project director and the PIU
technical staff for the project. The Government has also submitted a signed
policy letter (Technical Annex - Note 1) describing the Government's
objectives and priority actions for environmental management with a schedule
for implementing these priority actions. The Government has agreed (a) to
maintain an inter-ministerial steering committee with membership and TORs
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) to ensure that the restructured National Council
of the Environment (NCE) is operational by July 1, 1994; (c) to maintain
appropriate accounting and auditing procedures; and (d) to carry out a mid-
term review of the project Jointly with the Bank on the basis of agreed
indicators. As a condition for loan effectiyeness the Government will submit
a copy of the revised decree for the National Council of the Environment (NCE)
to the Government Council, and establish the interministerial steering
committee.
12.  Benefits and Risks.   The main benefit of the project will be to
contribute to sustainable economic development by strengthening the
Government's capability to manage and implement environmental policies,
strategies and plans. By developing the environmental management competencies
and establishing environment management units at the local government level,
the project will start up and promote the collaboration and coordination
between the USE, the sector ministries and the local government. The project
will also lay the foundation for future sector and environmental lending
operations which will all benefit from the strengthening of the environmental



- 5 -
institutions, and of the legal framework and institutionaliling the ZIA
process. The major risks to project implementation are: (a) environmental
protection and management became recently part of the Government' political
agenda and the environmental management system proposed by the project could
be endangered by the discontinuity of political commitment and support; (b)
the sector ministrios and the local government may resist collaborating with
USE in implementing the environmental management activities; (c) the project
is institutionally complex as it involves several components and participating
agencies; (d) the two laws may not be enacted. These risks were mitigated
under the project by: (a) involving major sector ministries, agencies, NOOs
and donors in project preparation in order to build up consensus among
institutions; (b) delineating the detailed functions and responsibilities of
the USE, the sector ministries and the Wlaya of Fes so that they will all be
informed of one another's functions; (c) limiting the participation in the
project to three ministries and to the Wilaya of Fes and establishing jointly
agreed-upon work programs; and (d) providing technical assistarce to prepare
the above mentioned laws so that they can be submitted to the Government
Council by the beginning of the third year of project implementation.
13. Po-erty Category. Not Applicable.
14. Recommendatign. I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 16, 1993



. 6 -
lIct cod _mn
%I Total
Loa        Foeg         Tots.         Cost
Project Components
Instuonal Sngtnn
USE                                                2074        628.         034.0            9
MAR                                                 79.8       l8"          26t              3
MPW                                                 79.8       186.6        282              3
Fee Provrno                                                   .4                             3
Subtol Instuonal Strengte                           Am                                        1 7
Nadonal Council of the Envifounme                    84.3       154.7         219.0           2
Enhancement of Leg  rmework                         335.7       540.2         675             9
Enforcement/Compflancs System                       304A        551.          681.            9
Natonal Enionmen IfortIon Netwk (NEt
USE                                                501.8        981        1,097.?          11
MAAR                                               227.5        6           313.0            3
MPW                                                226          79.8        305.8            3
Fe. Pmvinco                                        1f.5         312        ,4L               2
Subtotal NEIN                                      1071          MA         1.86.             19
Eduction and EnWronmental Awareness                 449.1       330A4         77              8
Support and OperaIors                              3032.2       3930        3,425.2          35
Total BISEUNE COSTS                                5,713.3     4,005.4      9,718.           100
Physia Criontindes                                 140.0       18e          323.8            3
Pdoe Contn                                         WA7.f     2J 2         , MLI              8
Total PROJECT COSTS                                a1i         4.aA1.4     1lf3lZ           111
S/ 1O M&Y mq  add Up duo to Mfounng
b/ hinto tUN amountng to US1O mmon.
FInancIng Pbn
Source            Local        Forelan         Toal       DUIe & Taxe    Totbl Cost    Per     of
(exL txes")                  -al taxe)                                      Total
Bank                2,064.5        3,435.6        6,000                          000             55
Government          2,317.0         515.8        2,8334           1,9i9.1      482.5             45
TOTAL               4,382.1        4,451.4       8,893.4          1,91.0      10,8325            100
Estmated Competon Dawe  June 30, 1998
Esiated Closing Date:    December 31, 198



* 7 *                         SCHEDULE L
tINGDOM OF MQB5QM
CaY                      Amoun of do Lan                   Pont Of TotM
Alfocaed (exprs"e                 Eendiures to
________________    In US; W  eun                              be Flnanced
Co    nsulin Seces, Studies &           4800.0                           1009%
Tmjm
Equiyet                                 l.,o                   100% of Foreign Expncgw 3
100. of  al  penditr
(-faoy Colo and 80% of
loca eedur  for ems
UIaocated                                200.0
-.i Url.____  '---_'_*____                                                     ,  __o.
PROCUREMENT METHODS AND DISBURSEMENT (US$ 00
CATEGORIES                     _ IQB_             _ Othor          __ Totd
1.    ConsAino Sendv.. Studies and            5.5426              -           6,542.8
Traidng                                 (4.908.0)                       (4.409.0)
2.    ;:qupmnt                     259.9      115.1V              -           374.9
(210.5)    (93.2)                         (303.71
3.    AudIo-vIual Produotlorw     -          3".3                -           360.3
(302.4)                        (302.4)
4.    EquIpment for National                  594.8               -           694.8
Infonmation N.tworkh                   (484.8)                          (484.8)
5.    Operation a  Support         -          -                   3,954.0     3.954.0
Expendituem
Total                              259.9      6,018.8             3954.0     10,832.5
(210.5)    (5.789.4)          _            (,000.0)
Note: iure in parenthesis are the respew  amounts flnand by Woifd Sank.
al Local Shopping (LS)
bl Proced under the Bank guidne for oonutants.
Estimated Olsburmn Sohedule
FY05                   FY6                    FY97                    FM
ANNUAL                         1,741.1                2,082.4                 1=238.7                 957.8
CUMULATIVE                     1,741.1                3806.5                 5,042.2                  6000
0) Esowob  Rat Of ReWtu  Not AppIle



. 8 -
KUfiMOt   OF MOROCV O                 SCNED1  I C
ty PrOaeSan  IvaNt ad Reanionatbtlittea
TiMektable gf Event.
Tim. taken to prepare:              18 months
Prepared by:                        Government, with Bank assistance
First Bank Mission:                 November 1991
Appraisal Mission Departure:        April 1993
Negotiations:                       July 1993
Planned Board Presentation:         September 1993
Planned Effectiveness:              January 1994
R_Rg:onilitv for:
Task Manager:                       Sherif Arif (EKTEN)
Division Chief:                     A. Amir Al-Khafaji (NNI1IN)
Country Director (Acting):          Mahmood A. Ayub (11)
Regional Vice Prosideut:            Caio Koch-Weser (HNAVP)
Peer Reviewers:                     John Dixon (LATER)
Arthur Bruestle (TWUWS)



9ado
Loaner    pi"
kae       m mdodaa                                                     6.416      46.1
a@ft"h S . SUOA e                                                     1bPIIa
817        1664   la ngdsomoIUses         awd yaIiob  dp  (SAP           160A
8585       nW       ngdsm.Ul r.se.        Agivausui Iesi                  o0o0
nu4   lowS  IndmoM                       bhduw*wIts opdSm) n 8mm
an         1nu5   IGngdmmu                 WEdsl. I                      15.8n
am        tlo    l04      6n1ofMhee-       m  I                          RANPNM
120        17   Ionglm rtmam              P I                            12.
Ms5        im    uano lmUtfnoos           A     _uhee  uiw U0
_                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~13
nu7        183    Iqdsou.Wmus             Heel. DwlspmeM                  am                 4*6
SW         1856   Pt   AftY               Pat Protst                      80                 1*m
gm         lop    lqomofmuu               Vosuhd Tub"  U                  amG                1.A6
7o         166    OUPr                    T       1M    u                  6W               8a.m
SW         18o    SNUE                    bIaddul butFt      s            NM                 8
am         185    Ugd.mttmuswos           N Iblsu Wdu ,                   60.85             8
no5        1857   I0ngdoM srM              r-OsanblisS   ea,              am                 s.
8510      1i8s ofPoSe                     Pews     dbbdm                  "A6                 .
354        l6w t    nodMurssso                 mMem bIlu . la"U           11.60             16.16
SoN       1M      IOndmoWMos.            RdPdutyl_ss                     660               4DM
son        18    Iq"d m M        s        AUIohiIe Uo        * s          amh 256           21
SW         im     an166    ledemofUsroo,  Pu Ath M ddrdou                  1.60             14*
son        166    ONCA                    11-OF s Abdoukidr       _      lIna                o0
8s181      I_     etH                     "gi  Ft U_es                    80A                to
811        10 O flg$      sotos           11bid    iUn's                 17000              18.6
31     10  M       Gngdmovocoo,           Psrut,Va                        45.6 4d.80
$108       166    Ih6dsmof rom            H1_w _st                        7100               16
8171       166      bngdo ,mofme          H _bt                          164"               67.78
3          1is1    Gnodofwros             Rureb_Usaflss                  114.00            1141JO
am        t166     O dasis.   110r        Pat l d o  hco                                    v.u
14         191   a P                      Patd8                           66OO              88*
a8         1661    InemoM wo              RU deso   w     Dosnbpmt 146.0                   14260
*             "11   Kb_odsofMorooo         pIhnmasIWosv td               1am                 67.9
88         1M      Indom.MsrAkssv l            tdMdSU   r b_M8_u          60A0               64.
*S6         1i6     l dmofMse              SAL.1                          1.00              187.6
85W7       1668   lbnmooM        se       T      _ _- b                  160.60            100.0
SW67       1666 IM gkdomof loroeo          Snd Larow b. bdds  A          2168              816.85
Se1im      1M     Klndmsm fMarooss        Lood D pu0     A               18b.60            180.60
861 Slt    1 ltgmaf M m                   Mu       Ptu  I is 1A                            1m
OTAL                                                        6549   461    160
Of uNch has been ropeld (adyanmduOm)                1.607*6   U674
Totawhldbyft suindMIA                               4.6~1 854
PJrofW acd                                    *20.11
ofwbbhhold                                     80.11
Tod UnAdamid                                                           1.666
* SAL.SALaroa Ln
hftpprMdasfFY
baNe dyat.f
N.MNtwR-MOP



Is ~~I                II XP111811  tt    |   ii W
t i    t  1.    I iV1||t  |     xi    ii  
I           118   11§[       [ f }I 1 ff                 .
I a  i i                 I                     I       C       $|Xg l
%~~~~~~       21  4 ;igWXp      $    b f 



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNCAL ANNEX



KINGDOM OF SMORC
CONTENTS
I.   BACKGROUND: THE ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION IN MOROCCO  . . . . . . . . . 1
Geographic and Economic Context  . . . . . . . . . ... 1. . . . . . . 
Main Problems Affecting the Environment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Natural Resources Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Pollution .. . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Institutional and Legal Aspects                      . . . . . . . 3
Government Policy and Action  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
II.  RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...   8
III. PROJECT: OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
A. Project Objective   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
B. Project Description   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Reinforcing the Institutional and Legal Framevork . . . . . . . . . 10
C. Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
IV.  PROJECT: ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
D. Project Implementation . .. .       .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
E. Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
F. Disbursement  . . . . .. .   . . .              . . . . . . . .   16
G. Accounts and Audits   . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
H. Supervision   .                  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . 16
I. Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
V.   THE GOVERNPMENT'S TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER PROGRAM:
DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
VI.  EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..                . 20
SCHEDULES
1. Key Project Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
2. Training Plan  . . . . . . . .     .  .  .   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . 23
NOTES
1. Government Policy Letter  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    .    .  .  26
2. Project Costs Summary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
3. Implemention and Procurement Plan   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  38
4. Project Outputs, Indicators and Targets  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
5. List of Documents and Data Available in the Project Files  . . . . . . . 48



. I -                      TECHNICALANE
I. BACKGROUD: THE ENVIRONMENTAL SITUATION IN MOROCCQ
Geograbhic and Economic Context
1.01     With 711,000 km. of territory, of which about two-thirds are arid or
semi-arid, Morocco is populated by 26.5 million people concentrated primarily
along the Atlantic Coast and in the Northern part of the country 521 living in
rural areas. Population growth has been about 2.5X per year during the past
twenty-five years and it is not expected to decline significantly before the
year 2000. In the year 2025, Morocco's population is expected to reach 47
million. This pressure will impose a heavy burden on the country's natural
resources as well as on its economic growth and constitutes a major challenge
for sustainable development in Morocco. Since the mid-eighties, however,
Morocco has been experiencing a period of combined sustained growth of about
41 per year while undertaking a drastic stabilization program with low
inflation, balance of payment improvement and good debt management.
1.02     Morocco has abundant natural resources including the world's most
accessible phosphate reserves, vast areas of arable land, extensive coast
lines and maritime resources. Agriculture contributes to Morocco's GDP by
only 161, but it provides employment to 401 of the labor force and generates
301 in export earnings, notably through fisheries (121 of total exports) and
horticulture products. The economy is, however, dominated by the industry and
service sectors. The CDP grew at 5.71 in the 1965-90 period and at a lower
rate of 4.11 in the 1980-91 period. Agriculture rose in the same period at an
impressive 6.71 p.a., despite several drought years. This reflects the
growing impact of irrigation and seems to indicate a strongly positive supply
response of agriculture to the development policy change; this can be traced
to the increased liberalization of agricultural and food prices, and to more
open marketing and trade practices.
Main Problems Affecting the Environment
Satural Resources Management
1.03     The major issues regarding natural resources management (which are
explained in section II of the project files are summarized as follows:
(a) Decrease of water availability for urban. industrial and
agricultural use.  The annual renewable volume of water is about
30 billion m3, of which 11 billion m3 are accessible. Urban and
industrial water consumption is growing at 81 annually and the
water balance deficit is expected to reach several regions by the
year 2000 and to spread countrywide by the year 2020. Industry
in certain areas, has started pumping groundwater for its use



- 2 -                      TECHNICAL AN=
because water in the rivers is heavily polluted and poorly
treated.
(b) Soil-degradation due to erosion. sallnlzation. desertlfication or
a combination of these. It is estimated that 12.4 million
hectares, representing one-third of the total agricultural
surface, is threatened by erosion, which seriously affects the
productivity of mountain agriculture and pastoral activities.
Soil erosion also leads to yearly soil sedimentation of 50
million m3, representing a decrease of the dam capacity by 0.4 X
and resulting in an annual loss of 5,000 ha of agricultural land.
(c) D2eforestation is estimated at 50.000 ha a year, principally due
to erosion and unsound agricultural and forestry practices. Wood
consumption for domestic use exceeds by three times the
reforestation undertaken by the Ministry of Agriculture and is
estimated at 30,000 ha a year.
(d) Losg of f4una and flora resulting in the disappearance of 40
mammal species out of the 100 identified, as well as the loss of
45 out of 2000 species of birds. Such loss is due to a number of
factors related to urbanization, overgrazing, drainage and
polluted rivers.
wolluig
1.04     An assessment of the pollution situation in Morocco reveals the
following conclusions:
(a) Urban pollution is one of the major problems in Morocco. It is
due mainly to the lack of water treatment systems and to the
partial sewage system connection of household (351 of the total
population and 65X of the urban population) and industries.
Furthermore, the accumulation of 6 million tons of untreated
solid waste produced annually is disposed in badly organized city
dumps or unregulated dumps. Only one composting plant is
functioning out of six existing in the country.
(b) Industrial pollution is an evergrowing problem in Morocco,
esp3cially: (i) in the Mohamedia-Casablanca region, in which
heavy industries and power plants are located; (ii) on the
Atlantic coast, North of Agadir and; (iii) along the Sebou River,
the largest and most important in Morocco, which has become an
open sewer for the surrounding cities. Forty percent of the
pollution from the medium- and small-scale industries
concentrated in Kenitra and Fes are discharging their bi-products
into this river. This creates concentrations of heavy metals
estimated at 10,000 tons per year, including toxic chromates from
the tanneries, as well as large concentrations of materials with
high chemical oxygen demand (COD). These contaminants have



. 3 -                      TEHICAL ANNX
practically eliminated living organisms in the rivers and is
undermining the operation of the water treatment plants.
Furthermore, the fertilizer plants (particularly in the city of
Safi) are discharging dangerous quantities of uranium and cadmium
along the Atlantic coast.
(c) Agricultural pollution results from the over-use of fertilizers
and unbiogradable pesticides that cause particular stress on
ground - and surface-water resources. The contamination level is
approximately 10,000 tons per year of phosphates and nitrates.
The nitrate concentration in some groundwater aquifers has
reached, and sometimes surpassed, the hygienic maximum
concentration (45 mg/l) for drinking water recommended by the
World Health Organization (WHO). The phosphates resulting from
soils washing are the main source of eutrophication in the rivers
and the excessive proliferation of algae which absorbs large
quantities of oxygen. The use of the polluted water in
irrigation, particularly in the Sebou, is another important
environmental concern, because it has an indirect impact on human
health and decreases the productive capacity of the soil.
(d) Air pollution tends to be localized around the cement and power
plants, but is more diffused in the Mohamedia-Casablanca, the
source of which is urban transport. The emission of lead in the
air, resulting from the combustion of leaded gasoline, is
estimated at 100 tons per year, which constitutes a hazard to the
urban population, especially to children.
Institutional and Legal Aspects
1.05     There is also an urgent need in Morocco to address cross-sectoral
environmental issues for which environmental management is a key factor. As
of now, the institutional and legal framework is highly fragmented and appears
insufficient to address the country's environmental problems. Each ministry
is hierarchical, with redundancies and rivalries existing among them. Lateral
coordination is inadequate, except during national crises and/or when such
cooperation is sponsored by a Superior Council headed by the King.
1.06     In 1980, the National Council of the Environment (NCE) was created,
with members represented from major sectoral ministries under the chairmanship
of the Ministry in charge for the environment (which is presently the Ministry
of the Interior). Its mandate is to conserve the natural resources, combat
pollution and improve the quality of life. Although the Council's
coordination role is stipulated in the decree, the Council has not been active
-- it reviewed the draft environmental law in 1985, and met irregularly for
the preparation of United Nations Conference of Environment and Development
(UNCED). The same decree calls for the establishment of Regional Environmental
Councils (REC) in region. However, no RECs have been active so far.



4 -ECHNICAL ANNEX
1.07     The Ministry of the Interior (MI) is responsible for the protection
of the environment and plays the role of the government's spokesman on
environmental issues. Though its major mandate of environmental management is
at the national level, the role of the former directorate of the environment
and urban planning of MI was limited to the administration of certain
activities, such as attendance at ministerial committees, providing limited
technical advice to other public entities, coordinating international
activities on environmental issues and implementing few environmental
activities.
1.08     In addition, the sectoral ministries have been unable to participate
efficiently in the country's environmental management activities because their
mandates are not clearly defined in this respect. Only four of the 14 major
sectoral line ministries have a directorship or a division responsible for the
environment: these are the Ministries of the Interior and Information, Health,
and Industry, Trade, Privatization, Energy and Mines. The lack of clear
institutional responsibility hampers the formulation of sectoral policies
which are required for comprehensive pollution control, for a definition of
environmental norms and their methodology of enforcement, as well as for a
development of an effective environmental information system. For example,
the Ministry of Industry is not empowered to regulate industry: the
responsibility of awarding industrial permits falls to the Ministry of Public
Works while the technical and management expertise of the Ministries of
Industry and Public Works in environmental control is limited.
1.09     There is a large number of laws referring to the environment: more
than 350 legal texts address the protection of the physical environment.
However, some of these laws are outdated, such as the law of 8/25/1914, for
pollution control from industrial installations and the law of 8/1/1925, which
prohibits the discharge of any effluent into the waterways. These laws did
not take into account the existence of modern technology in production methods
and were developed in the context of ensuring the smooth exploitation of
natural resources only. Furthermore, the poor enforcement of these
regulations compounds a significant gap in the overall regulatory framework
that could be filled by the concept of integrated control of polluting
installations. A draft law on the environment, prepared by the Ministry of
the Interior in 1985 and updated in February, 1993 to be enacted. This draft
law provides general principles for environmental management and protection
but is not self-executing and would require specific laws/regulations for its
application. The Bank considers that when this law will be enacted, it will
constitute a coherent legal framework for the environment. As a first step,
the Government requested the Bank assistance through this project in preparing
on a priority basis, two self executing laws, a chemical law and a permit law
for integrated pollution control (see para 1.13)
Government Policy and Action
1.10     Although population growth in general, and population pressure on the
urban cities in particular, remain major causes of natural resource
degradation, the Government has taken the following actions to mitigate



.5.-                     IE IAL
natural resources problems: (a) efforts have been made to: (1) increase
surface water storage by means of large and small scale reservoirs, (ii)
adjust allocations of water to sectors and regions where resources are
abundant; and (iiI) use recycled waste water; (b) build or improve 500,000 ha
of agricultural lands to protect them against soil and water erosion; (c)
reforest 22,000 ha per year (under implementation); and (d) issue necessary
regulations for biodiversity protection in the national parks of Souss-Messa
and Al-Hoceima. Similarly, the Bank has assisted the Government in addressing
the natural resources problems: (a) through the preparation of: (i) a water
sector study which will introduce an integrated approach to water sector
management; and (ii) a watershed management project to address land
management, through popular participation of preservation of water resources
and to control erosion and dam sedimentation; (b) through financing, under the
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL), of projects on reforestation and
rangelands and improved lands and irrigation; and (c) financing, through
METAP, the management plan for the Al-Hoceima National Park. The Government,
with Bank assistance has also embarked on an ambitious program to extend and
improve sewage treatment in urban areas, which will address one of the major
sources of urban pollution. It also received a GEF grant to establish port
reception/ treatment facilities to combat marine pollution.
1.11     The Government's new policy on the environment is delineated in the
National Report submitted to the 1992 UNCED Conference. The strong commitment
of the Government to protecting the environment (i.e., ensuring an appropriate
management of natural resources and minimizing pollution) is expressed in both
documents. This new emphasis is leading to a major institutional change in
the Government administration. The first new emphasis on environmental
protection led to a major institutional change in the environmental
administration. In August 1992, the Directorate of the Environment and Urban
Planning was split into two entities within MI: the General Directorate of
Urban Planning and the newly established Under Secretariat for the Environment
(USE), which reports directly to the Minister. The USE needs a major
consolidation at technical level and appropriate operational procedures need
to be developed. Its operating budget became autonomous and has been
increased significantly from DH440,000 in 1992 to DH4.4 million in 1993. Its
technical staff will be increased from 20 high-and middle-level officials to
50 during 1994.
1.12     The Government intends to take action to reduce pollution, and also
prevent resource waste, promote proper technologies and educate entrepreneurs
and the public about resource conservation. As the Government recognizes its
need for administrative reform with budgetary and financial decentralization
to the municipal level, it also intends to build appropriate management
structures for the environment at both the central and local levels.
Furthermore, since September 1992, the USE has started preparing an
Environmental Strategy and an Environmental Action Plan (EAP), in order to
integrate environment into the social/economic development of the country.
The EAP will be completed in December 1994 and the Government should be able
to initiate its implementation in parallel with the reinforcement of an
institutional and legal framework for the environmental activities carried out



-6 -                       TCICL AM=
through this project. The environmental management activities financed by UNDP
and Germany as well as a table summarizing these activities with those
described in this project are found in section Ill of the project files.
1.13     The strategy to implement the Government's environmental policy
recognizes the need to start with basic environmental functions and solve
practical environmental issues (such as in industrial pollution) which are
pre-requisites for attacking Morocco's long term environmental problems.
These actions were provided in the institutional, legal and pollution study
which was financed by the Swedish Government as part of the project
preparation. The study recognized that pragmatic solutions to Morocco's
environmental problems could be found and environmental protection could be
enforced even in the absence of the environmental law and without a
substantial change in the existing legal and institutional framework. In
order that the following approaches be applied, the Government is currently
prepared to adopt the EIA as a policy instrument in planning public investment
projects.
(a) The Command-and-Control (CAC) approach will be used for
restricting (or if necessary banning) the uses of hazardous
chemicals. These will be controlled by a chemical law which will
be developed under this project and based on international
practices (especially those of the EEC) and/or on norms and
standards that will be developed. In such cases, the courts will
be able to penalize the violators.
(b) The Roll-Back (RB) approach will be used for water discharges,
air emissions and waste production from point sources and will be
formulated by a pollution contract negotiated between each
subsector association and the USE. This contract will determine
a ceiling on the pollution amount that each establishment should
be allowed to discharge in a given medium as well as a program
(when necessary) for decreasing the total pollution load over a
specific time consistent with the technology used and the
financial status of each establishment. The contract will
determine whether prosecutable violations have occured. In order
to regulate the Oroll-back' approach, the Government plans to
prepare a second law entitled "Permit Law for Integrated
Pollution Control".
1.14     The CAC and RB approaches will have broad implications for
institutions involved in the environmental activities of the country. In
order to implement effectively both approaches within the present
institutional framework, the Government intends to adopt a three-tiered
organization structure which will involve the USE, the sector ministries and a
selected local government with the following functions.
(a) The USE will be the central authority, playing a catalytic role
and performing the functions of: (i) submitting for review to the



NCE as its secretariat, environmental national policies and
strategies and proposing legislations; (ii) ensuring operational
and technical coordination; (iii) preparing environmental
guidelines and procedures (including E$A); (Iv) negotiating the
pollution contracts and enforcing the CAC approach; and (v)
providing technical and information services to the users.
(b) The sector ministries will strengthen their environmental
functions by: (i) carrying out environmental screening and review
of EIAs in their sectors; (ii) programming and reviewing
environmental audits; (iii) coordinating with USE the
environmental activities (including EIA procedures) in their
sectors and assisting industry in the RB approach; and (iv)
disseminating environmental information in their respective
sectors.
(c) The local government will establish an environmental management
unit in the province which will: (i) monitor on behalf of USE,
the status of pollution and natural resource degradation at the
regional level; (ii) follow up on the implementation of the
pollution contracts; and (iii) coordinate the environmental
activities in the province.
1.15     Regardless of what agency/ministry is assuming responsibility for
implementing environmental functions, it must have clearly delineated
functions, adequate expertise, staff, equipment and financial resources.
During appraisal, the mission reviewed the overall framework of environmental
functions of the sector ministries and the selected local government, which
have been proposed by USE in consultation with the sector ministries. This
framework, described in the project files, sections IIIa-IlIc, is adequate and
an essential base for further delineation.
1.16     In the proposed project, a coordinated environmental management
between the USE, the Ministries of Agriculture and the Minist-. of Public
Works as well as the province of Fes, as selected local governrant from those
interested, will be made fully operational. The effectiveneba of such a
system will be assessed during the life of the project, and, if necessary,
after an appropriate adjustment, additional sector ministries would be made
part of the expanded framework in order for all Bank's lending operations be
planned with an integrated environmental consideration. The Government is
aware of the importance of this feedback process to reach a full-fledged
institutional level in the coming years.
1.17     In pursuit of such an organizational model, the restructuring of the
National Council of the Environment (NCE) as renewed cross-sectoral forum is
essential for the integration and coordination of environmental policies and
for ensuring consistent decision making at the national level.



- 8 - 8-CF                         L
1.18     To implement Its policy through the elements outlined above, the
Government has proposed the following priority actions which hav, been
incorporated into the prorosed project:
(a) Strengthening the capability of USE, the two ministries and the
province of Fes involved in the proposed organizational model to
apply the CAC and RB approaches;
(b) Restructuring the National Council of the Environment (NCE) and
expanding its mandate and membership to ensure the appropriate
institutional structures for participating in policy formulation
at the national and local levels;
(c) Formulating two new laws, as described in para 1.13 (a) and (b),
and revising existing regulations to ensure consistency, while
the enactment of the environmental law is envisaged soonest.
Such enactment is fully consistent with the proposed two laws;
(d) Developing a participatory process to involve all concerned
institutions for environmental management action including public
participation: testing those above-mentioned approaches through
selected demonstration projects; and developing the financial and
economic instruments with a view to introducing them on a
national scale during or after the completion of the proposed
project.
1.19     In order to clarify its commitment to such an innovative approach
towards environmental protection, the Government has submitted a nolicy letter
(attached as a Technical Arnex - Note 11 describing its objectie  for
envirogmental management. with emnhasis on the anticigated evoluion of its
institutional framework, its gstion= to strengthent both the-NCR and the lelal
framework (including the ZIA groggdures~) and a donting the organigational
Manaement anrgach, with an attached time schedule for imolementina the
Rrinrsit actions.
II. RAtionale for Bank Involvement
2.01     Following the last Board discussion on the Country Assistance
Strategy, and after consultation with the country authorities, environmental
and water resources management has been identified as one of the key pillars
of the Bank's planned assistance to Morocco. This priority is reflected in the
current Country Strategy Paper. The Bank's emphasis in this area is based on
the assumption that economic development cannot be effective and sustainable
unless the economic growth objectives at the policy, planning and management
levels are compatible with the economic, social and environmental factors.
Sound environmental protection and natural resources management become key
areas of concern for the Bank, especially ln desigaing all lending projects in
productive sectors (infrastructure, agriculture, industry). The following are
three basic goals the Bank has with regard to Morocco: Mitigating adverse
environmental impact on human health, preventing irreversible ecological



q 9 , .CICAL ANEX
changes, and balancing costs and benefits whenever resources are scarce and
basic human needs have to be met. In addition, the Bank supports the
Government's desire to establish clear and transparent environmental rules and
regulations as positive steps towards improving the business climate in
Morocco, since the private sector favors a predictable situation concerning
environmental regulations.
2.02     The Government's request for Bank assistance provides a unique
opportunity to help shape a regulatory and institutional framework, formulate
an environmental policy and develop appropriate economic and financial
instruments to ensure the integration of effective environmental mansPement
into Morocco's micro and macro economic policies.  The proposed proje.c will
not attemDt to rank in order, or resolve the environmental issues of the
country. Rather. it will initiate the grocesg of strengthening the
Government's environmental management cAgacities by proposing a pragmatic
approach of developing the institutional and legal framework. The proposed
project is, therefore, an essential foundation for the Government who is now
planning to carry out a number of field demonstration projects in cooperation
with other multilateral and bilateral donors. These demonstration projects
are not crucial to the project success, but they are considered to be
important by the Government to ensure adequate articulation between
institutionalization and implementing stages of the environmental management
reform undertaken.
2.03     The Bank involvement would complement other proposed projects in
Morocco in the field of water supply, municipal finance and agriculture, all
of which rely on an enhanced capability of environmental management including
national capacities to carry out environmental impact assessment. Laying the
institutional and legal foundations fc:. cffective application of economic and
financial instruments in environmental planning and management, the proposed
project is a critical element for the Bank's current discussion with the
Government of Morocco for a possible full-fledged investment project in the
field of environment, planned for FY96. In such perspective, this is the
first stand-alone country lending operation in MNA region to provide the major
technical assistance in environmental management; it would contribute not only
to an integrated approach in Morocco, but would also give an impetus to shift
the region's conceptual framework toward designing sustainable investment
projects.
III. Th>e Project
A.       Project Objectiye
3.01     The objective of the project is to assist the Government in
strengthening their institutional and regulatory framework for managing
environmental protection.



- 10 -                     TECNIG.
B.       Pr2olct DescriPtio
ReinfaXritW the Institutional and Legal Framework
3.02     The project enhances the institutional framework through: (a)
strengthening the technical and administrative capacity of USE, the
clarification of environmental functions of sectoral ministries and the local
governments, their articulation with sector activities and the USE's
functions; (b) restructuring the NCE; (c) enhancing and updating the legal and
regulatory framework; (d) designing an enforcement/compliance system; (e)
promoting environmental education and awareness; and (f) establishing a
National Environment Information Network (NEIN). Details of the project
description are found in section IV of the project files.
3.03     Strenftheing the Technical and Administrative CaRacty.  The purpose
of this component is to apply on a pilot basis, the three-tiered organization
between the central environmental autborlty (USE), selected sector ministries
(Agriculture and Public Works) and one local government (wilaya of Fes), in
which serious environmental pollution problems exist. The Ministries of
Agriculture and. Public Works have confirmed their commitment to undertake a
joint work program (see the project files, section lIId) for strengthening
their common environmental functions and fostering their working relationship
in addressing cross sectoral environmental issues. Furthermore a separate
budget was allocated in the project for each of the two sector ministries in
order to provide them with resources necessary to implement their work
program.
3.04     This Institutional Strengthening Component (US$1.87 million) would
include: (a) consultant services to assist the USE, the two sector ministries
and the environmental cell in Fes to: (i) develop operational procedures and
guidelines; (ii) organize their own environmental program; (iii) set up
appropriate mechanisms for information sharing and cooperation between the USE
and the sector ministries and agencies; as well as (iv) assist the USE in
establishing nation-wide monitoring which would entail the coordination of all
monitoring activities; (b) training high level staff in environmental
planning, environment management techniques, monitoring and enforcement,
pollution modelling, environmental economics, environmental assessment and
audit reviews and financial management, including short visits to
environmental protection agencies; and (c) purchase of office equipment, field
vehicles, and computer hardware and software.
3.05         Restructuring the National CouniL of the Environment (NCE).  In
order to make the NCE an effective national policy-making body involving all
sector ministries for addressing cross sectoral issues of environmental
protection, its restructuring is envisaged through: (i) the adequate expansion
of permanent membership including additlonal ministries and concerned public
e..tities as well as non-governmental organizations; (ii) the up-grading of the
level of representation with more detailed definition of the NCE's role; (iii)
the clear definition of the NCE's meeting procedures and formation of five
thematic commissions; (iv) the organization and re-definition of Regional



. 11 -                     TEONLG& ANNEX
Councils for Environment as decentralized instrument of the NCE; and (v) the
allocation of a budget for its operation. Based on the framework agreed with
the Bank appraisal mission (see section IVc of the project files), the
Government will prepare a revised decree which will initiate the restructuring
of the NCE.
3.06     The Environmental Action Plan which is now being prepared with the
assistance of UNDP/UNESCO is scheduled to oe submitted to the NCE for review
in December 1994. The project will establish the necessary institutional and
legal foundations to enable the Government to implement the activities in the
Action Plan. As a condition of loan effectiveness. the Covernment will submit
to the Government CounclL the revised decree for the NCE's restructurine.
3.07     This component (US$0.25 million) will include: (a) support to the NCE
to manage and coordinate its operations; (b) technical assistance for
development of procedures and operations of the NCE and its commissions,
including the identification of a set of policy and economic studies in
selected environmental problems that will be identified by the sector
ministries and industrial associations; (c) development of technical
capabilities of the commissions members to analyze policy options and examine
environmental problems submitted to their attention; and (d) purchase of
office equipment and computer hardware and software.
3.08     Enhancement of the Legal and Regulatory Framework. The
implementation of a sound environmental management system should be supported
by the drafting, issuance and implementation of laws and regulations. Until
the draft environmental law is enacted and becomes operational, the Government
has decided to adopt the following legal measures: (a) review and update
existing regulations derived from existing laws; (b) issue a decree making the
Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) an effective policy instrument, after the
newly established EIA unit of the USE issues the appropriate EIA procedures in
December 1993 (these procedures are being prepared by USE with assistance from
consultants financed under METAP); (c) prepare the two self-executing laws
missing from the existing legal framework, which are the Permit Law for
Integrated Pollution Control and the Chemicals and Toxic Wastes Control Law
(section 1.13 (a) and (b). These two laws are scheduled to be submitted to the
Government Council by the beginning of the third year of project
implementation.
3.09     Under this proposed arrangement, financing in the amount of
(US$0.97 million) will be provided for: (a) consultants to aszist the USE and
the Ministries of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MAAR) and Public Works
(MPW) to update existing regulations, provide needed technical assistance to
the task forces that will prepare the two draft laws (after undertaking the
necessary studies) and the assessment of the environmental guidelines under
the EEC Free Trade Agreement; (b) workshops to support the participatory
process of reviewing and fine tuning the regulations and legal measures; (c)
training programs for sector ministries, including the Ministry of Justice and
the Government's secretariat general, in environmental law, environmental
impact assessment, environmental audits, processing and ways to promote better



- 12 -                     TECHNICAL ANNE
understanding and awareness of environmental legal issues; and (d) purchase of
computer hardware and software and the establishment of a legal documentation
center at the USE.
3.10     Designing an Enforcement/Compli1ane System In AMironmental
Protection. The purpose of this subcomponent is to deslgn the roll back
approach and finance a series of complementary studies to enable USE to apply
this approach on a national scale. These studies will rely on the
demonstration projects (section V) which the Government has designed in order
to test the results and recommendations of these studies. During the interim
period in which the integrated pollution control law will be prepared, the
application decree of October 1933 related to the classification of the
industrial establishments will be used. The olive oil industries and the
tanreries in Fes were selected for this pilot application: Their respective
associations representing the owners of the tanneries and olive oil industries
in Fes will enter into an agreement wish USE to gradually decrease the
pollution loads of their affiliated companies over a specific time. The
association will, in turn, negotiate a schedule of necessary measures with the
individual companies to meet the aggregate pollution load decrease proposed by
the Government. The USE has already established with the financial and
technical assistance of the Federal Republic of Germany, a well-equipped
environmental laboratory to determine in advance the maximum pollution loads.
With this sub-component, USE should be able to monitor, through the newly
established environmental cell in Fes, the pollution contracts and test a
series of enforcement measures and financial incentives to treat industrial
water in these industries.
3.11     This component (US$0.97 million) will include: (a) consultant
services to design the roll back approach and to prepare operational
procedures and guidelines for drafting and reviewing pollution proposals and
contracts; (b) training of environmental inspectors in reviewing industrial
proposals, evaluating environmental problems, and monitoring and following-up
on pollution contracts; (c) workshops and seminars for private and public
industrial entities, and private consulting firms, on the command and control
and roll back approaches, environmental impact assessment, audit procedures
and methodologies for favoring pollution prevention by process change and
clean technology, and prefeasibility and feasibility studies for environmental
investment opportunities; (d) conducting environmental audits and pollution
load assessments; (e) commissioning two studies on: (i) the identification of
appropriate economic and financial incentives for providing market-oriented
solutions to environmental protection and the establishment of an
environmental loan fund to assist private and public entities to finance their
pollution abatement costs; (ii) the identification of instruments for
encouraging the private sector to prevent pollution in the artisanal and
municipal sectors; and (f) preparing two pre-feasibility studies for
additional demonstration projects in the sectors of agriculture, (e.g.
pesticides), and energy and mining (e.g. phosphates).



13 -                      TENICL
3.12     Promoting an Environmental Edcation and Aweness Progrm. USE has
already prepared with the assistance of Germany, a strategy for promoting an
environmental awareness program. This component (US$O.9 million) will
implement the elements of the strategy and will therefore promote public
education and awareness outside the formal education system about the social
and economic implications of the demonstration projects, and about those
sectors which have an impact on human health. The component will Include: (a)
development of methodologies, training materials, audiovisual materials and TV
films; and (b) provision of training courses and specialized workshops to
ministerial staff, NGO regional associations and community leaders, on
techniques and methodologies for increasing public awareness of environmental
issues.
3.13     Establishment of a National Environment Information Network (NEIN).
There is not currently in Morocco a coordinated effort to pool the relevant
environmental information from sector ministries, national agencies and
universities into one decentralized source of user-oriented information. The
objective of establishing the NEIN is to enable the ministries to operate as a
resource sharing, state-of-the-art service network. The NEIN will consist of
two major technical tasks: (a) the development of a database search network
where environmental data and information could be retrieved from international
electronic databases containing technological information for use by the
private and public sectors; (b) the building of a domestic database network
whereby public domain environmental information generated by the ministries
and agencies could be made available to users and shared among the members of
the NEIN. The NEIN will be first developed and tested in USE, the Ministries
of Public Works and Agriculture and the Province of Fes, if it is successful
the network will be expanded to other agencies in the forthcoming environment
investment project.
3.14     This component (US$2.17 million) will provide: (a) consulting
services to: (i) develop a policy paper by the Government on the development,
access, exchange and sharing of environmental information at the national
level as well as establishing a fee-for-service system; (ii) design and
implement the NEIN on a pilot scale, in the form of a central node at the USE
and two sector nodes at the Ministries of Public Works and Agriculture and one
regional node in the Province of Fes; (b) train information specialists in
data collection, database search and analysis for the central and service
nodes; (c) provide access to international databases on CD-ROM or dedicated
telephone lines on the availability of enrironmental technologies and services
to end users; and (d) purchase of field vehicles, office equipment,
microcomputer hardware and software, and licenses to international databases;
and (e) establish a documentation center related to environment.
3.15     The project will: (a) provide 272 person-months (pm) of international
and local consultants; (b) organize and implement 33 technical and specialized
workshops which will be attended by 600-800 professionals from the sector
ministries, local government, NGOs and private and public sector consulting
and industrial firms for which a training plan is summarized in Schedule 1;
(c) provide training abroad to 26 professionals in the different environmental



- 14 -                     TECHNIC A
fields of specialization; (d) finance a total of 6 policy, economic, financial
and legal studies; and (e) purchase a total amount of US$1.7 million of office
equipment and supplies, audio-visual materials, computer maintenance and
access to international databases.
C.       Prolect Cost and Financing
3.16     The total cost of the proposed project is estimated at US$10.84
million, including taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component
estimated at US$4.45 million, or 41 X of total project cost (detailed
estimated costs are in the attached Technical Annex - Note 2). The base cost
amounts to US$9.72 million for prices estimated in March 1993. Project costs
and expenditure accounts by components are summarized in the Project Costs
Summary (Technical Annex - Note 3).
3.17     The proposed Bank locn of US$6.0 million would finance 68 X of total
project cost net of taxes and duties. It would cover about 88X of foreign
exchange expenditures, and about 472 of the estimated local costs net of taxes
and duties. These local costs are for the financing of the services of local
consultants. The Project Costs Summary shows the project financial plan, with
a breakdown by expenditure categories and project components.
3.18     The total amount needed to finance recurrent costs arising from this
project which amounts to US$3.7 million representing 34 X of total cost. The
main project categories that will continue beyond project completion are: (a)
local salaries with an annual amount of about US$0.5 million for about 30
professional staff of USE and MAAR, MPW and the Province of Fes; and (b)
operating costs estimated at US$0.4 million per annum, which include office
space, services, materials, and fares and subsistence to provide for the
continuous interaction between the USE, the sector ministries and the local
Government.
3.19     The projected budgetary requirements for USE, MAAR, MPW and the
Province of Fes during the 1994-1998 period, the years of project
implementation will reach an estimated yearly annual cost of about US$1.3
million. This budget will be exclusively earmarked to USE.
IV. Project Organization and Implegntatign
D.       Progect ImRlementation
4.01     The proposed project would be implemented ovt;r a period of
approximately four years and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998, and
closed by December 31, 1998. The USE will be the executing agency for this
project (a detailed implementation and procurement plan is found in the
attached Technical Annex - Note 3). The project will be coordinated by an
inter-ministerial steering committee which will be chaired by USE and will
include as members the representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Economic and Social Affairs, Finance and Public Works. This committee will
provide over all policy guidance, review work programs and resolve any inter-



- 15 -                   TECHNICAL
ministerial implementation issues on this project. As a condition of
effectiveness, the Government will establigh t&e steering committee. A
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established by the USE, and
consists of the project manager and competent technical and administrative
staff. The PIU will be responsible for the interface between the Bank, the
donors and the USE. It will assist the USE in the day-to-day management of
the institutional and legal framework component. During negotiations. the
Government submitted the names and profiles of the techical staff of the PIU.
which weXe acce2table to the Bank. The Ministries of Agriculture, Public
Works, and Justice, the Province of Fes, local NGOs and the private sector
consulting firms will all participate in project implementation however staff
from tne Ministries of Industry, Health, Energy and Mines, Finance, and
Economy and Social Affairs, and the representatives of the local government of
the Provinces and the private sector will also receive in-country training
from this project.
E.       Procurement
4.02     Table 4 summarizes procurement arrangements under the Bank loan.  USE
would carry out all procurement of the project in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 1992) and
standard bidding documents for ICB. A procurement schedule is in the attached
Technical Annex - Note 3.
4.03     Goods and Services.  To the extent possible, contracts for goods
would be grouped to allow procurement of larger packages of US$100,000 or
more.  Two ICBs packages with a total value of US$0.21 million are expected
for purchase of vehicles, office equipment and computer equipment. For
purposes of bid evaluation, under the ICB procedures, local manufacturers will
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Other
smaller contracts below US$100,000 for local purchases for starting up the
project (such as two vehicles, office eqsupment and personal computers) up to
an aggregate amount of US$250,000, and video films, books and journals as well
as materials and supplies, regardless of costs, could be made using local
shopping (LS) on the basis of quotations from at least three suppliers. Local
suppliers are expected to obtain about 252 of the procurement value of the
goods to be financed by the Bank.
4.04     Consultants' Services for T_chnical Assistance an.. Procurement
Services Agents. Studies and training will be contracted in accordance with
the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Contracts for technical
assistance have been grouped into four packages with a total value of US$5.8
million: (1) strengthening the institutional and administrative capacity,
restructuring the NCE and enhancing the legal framework; (2) implementing an
enforcement/compliance system; (3) promoting an environmental education and
awareness program; and (4) establishment of the NEIN. The six studies will be
part of the four packages and are included in the summary of the terms of
references for the four packages found in section VII of the project files.
Local consultants have considerable capability and it is estimated that they



- 16 -
would be successful in about 601 of the consultants' assignments. All
contracts for consulting services, training or studies, TV production and
advertisements valued at more than US$100,000 and contracts for goods procured
under ICB will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The Bank's prior review
is expected to cover about 901 of the total Bank-financed procurement. Small
consulting contracts and goods valued below US$100,000 equivalent will be
subject only to ex-ost review by the Bank and will be retained by USE for
review by Bank Supervision missions. These small contracts will consist of
services performed by consultants to carry out specific tasks and lasting no
more than four months. These contracts would be formalized on the basis of
standard TORs and employment conditions, as well as selection procedures that
have been determined acceptable tc the Bank. The technical assistance
contractors responsible for the third and fourth packages will also act as
procurement service agents for purchasing specialized equipment.
F.       DisburseW=
4.05     The allocation of loan amount and the disbursement percentages are
summarized in Table 5. The disbursement schedule is found in section Ve of
the project files. Except for contracts requiring prior review, disbursement
would be made against a certified statement of expenditures for which detailed
documentation evidencing expenditures would be made available for the required
audit and also for review by the Bank supervision missions.
4.06     To facilitate the timely implementation of the project, the
Government would establish a special account on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation will be US$ 600,000 covering
the Bank's share of 3-4 months of estimated expenditures. Replenishment of the
special account would follow normal Bank's procedures.
G.       Accounts and Audits
4.07     An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank would: (a) audit
project accounts of USE, MAg, MPW, the Province of Fes, and the Special
Account; (b) apply auditing standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
that conform to generally accepted auditing practices; (c) carry out its
auditing work in a timely manner (an annual report would be presented no later
than six months after the end of each calendar year); and (d) render an audit
opinion or the reason whereby such opinion cannot be rendered. The project
will provide training in financial management and application of modern
auditing procedures to environmental entities as part of its strengthening of
the USE.
H.       SuRprvision
4.08     Since this is the first environmental project in Morocco and the
region, Bank supervision is expected to be resource-intensive, particularly in
the first stage of implementation. In the first year, three supervision
missions will be planned (18 sws) followed by six semi-annual supervisions for
the remaining three years (36 sws). The supervision missions will focus on



- 17 -                     TECl L AM
the (a) improvement of the USE's institutional capacity to carry out its
mandate at the central level as well as its coordination capabilities with
sector ministries and local governments; (b) progress on the objectives.
targets and schedules of each sub-component; and (c) the extent to which the
USE has been able to integrate environmental concerns into the policy
formulation and the progress made in enforcing new regulations, pollution
contracts and reviewing environmental impact assessments. During negotiations,
project indicators and expected outputs summarized in the attached Technical
Annex - Note 4 were conflrmed. Assurances were obtained that GovernMent will
caixy out a mid-term review by September 30, 1996, to assess the progress and
achievements of the different components against the project indicators and
will undertake corrective actions as agreed.
I.       Envlronmental Impact
4.09     The primary objective of the project is environmental institution-
building and therefore the project will not have any adverse environmental
impact. The environmental screening classification is "C" in accordance with
OD 4.01 Annex A.
V. The Government's Technology Transfer Program: Demonstration Projects
5.01     Although the project would lead to sufficient environment safeguards
for new investment projects and the implementation of new environmental
policies and guidelines, there remains a large of number of industries which
do not have pollution abatement technologies. In parallel with the
preparation of this project, the Government has identified with the Bank's
assistance, demonstration projects which will be used as case studies for USE
and the local government to identify and apply cost effective alternatives for
improving operations. These demonstrations should provide necessary technical
and engineering expertise to the local private engineering and consulting
firms for carrying out EIAs and audits of existing operations, identify
potential technology transfer, and help select, install and operate pollution
control technologies. They will also be used to assess the economic
incentives and policy instruments, developed by the project for the government
and industry, to induce the internalization of pollution costs and to allow
satisfactory ambient standards.
5.02     The Government is fully aware that from a financial point of view,
demonstration projects in which the transferred technology is end-of-pipe are
only viable in their pollution prevention components. The Government has
therefore decided to finance these demonstration projects with grants or
concessional loans with the understanding that economic and financial analyses
developed In the project will provide information on realistic levels of cost
recovery and external benefits that could be captured from pollution
reduction. As a result of these analyses, economic and fiscal incentives will
be proposed to reach those levels in a cost effective manner.
5.03     Twenty project concepts were identified on the basis of general
criteria, i.e.: technical feasibility, replication in the sector and having a



* 18 *                     115-GUUiL MU
technology transfer element. Of these project concepts, four demonstration
projects were selected for implementation on the basis of the following
criteria: addressing environmental issues of water and soil pollution, having
a social/economic pay off during the lifetime of the demonstration wlth no
introduction of price distortion, being oriented towards private sector
participation in implementation, and being consistent with the Bank's sector
operations in Morocco.
5.04     The following four demonstration projects fulfill the above mentioned
criteria and could be implemented as funding from bilateral or multilateral
donors is finalized. The feasibility studies showed that these projects will
need additional economical incentives to become financially viable. The
executive summary of these demonstration projects is found in section IX of
the project files.
(a) Recovery of chromium effluent from tanneries in Dokkarat near the
city of Fes. The objective is to introduce a simple and
efficient technology to recycle the industrial water used in
leather tanning and to recover chromium, a toxic substance, from
the water effluent for its reuse. The environmental benefit
resulting from this sub-project is the decrease of toxic
substances in water.
(b) Handling of olive press juice from a group of mills in Dokkarat.
The objective is to decrease of the high BOD/COD content in the
Sebou river produced by the juice and properly dispose of the
solid wastes resulting from olive oil production. The main
environmental benefits are the improvement of water quality of
the Sebou river, the largest in Korocco and the prevention of
water shortage in the industrial and touristic city of Fes.
(c) Waste water treatment from a sugar plant (SUNAG II) and an
adjacent alcohol plant (SOTRAMEG). The purpose of this
demonstration is to treat the liquid wastes from both plants
jointly and generate methane from the wastes for energy
production. The main environmental benefits resulting from this
operation are improved quality of treated water which will be
suitable for irrigation, reduction of the high BOD level in the
treated water by more than 90X and the prevention of groundwater
contamination.
(d) Municipal waste handling systems and preparation of an integrated
waste management plan for the city of Safi. The purpose of this
demonstration project is to establish national guidelines for
municipal waste handling and disposal and apply these guidelines
in establishing a waste management site in the medium sized city
of Safi. The main environmental benefits are the proper and safe
disposal of household wastes and minimizing health and safety
hazards.



- 19 -                     TE IGL AM
5.05     The estimated costs derived from the feasibility studies of these
demonstration projects are US$20.5 milllon of which the Government has
solicited grants and/concessional loans for US$15.6 million to cover the
foreign exchange (US$12.2 million) and certain local investment and operating
costs. The Government has so far received a commitment from the African
Development Bank to program FUA 10 million (corresponding to US$12.8 million
of concessionary loans) for the demonstration projects, and from the Swedish
International Enterprise Corporation (SWEDECORP) for a grant of US$1.0 million
to finance part of the costs of the tanneries demonstration project. It is
expected that the total of US$13.8 million wlll cover the foreign exchange
costs of these projects as well as certain investment and operating costs.
The Government expects to complete the financing of the remaining local
investment costs estimated to be the equivalent of US$1.8 million.
VI. fxiected Benefits and Risks
6.01     The main benefit of the project will be to contribute to sustainable
economic development by strengthening the Government's capability to manage
and implement environmental policies, strategies and plans. By developing the
environmental management competencies and establishing environment management
units at the local government level, the project will start up and promote the
collaboration and coordination between the USE, the sector ministries and the
local government. The project will also lay the foundation for future sector
and environmental lending operations which will all benefit from the
strengthening of the environmental institutions, clarifying the legal
framework and institutionalizing the EIA process.
6.02     The major risks to project implementation are:
(a) environmental protection and management became recently part of
the Government's political agenda and the environmental
management system proposed by the project could be endangered by
the discontinuity of political commitment and support. To the
extent possible, this risk has been addressed by: (i) involving
major sector ministries, agencies, NGOs, and donors in the
project preparation in order to build up consensus among
institutions; (ii) recent initiatives of organizing METAP II
donor meeting in Morocco in May 1993 should strengthen the
initial consensus to promote environmental management.
(b) USE might experience resistance from the sector ministries to
interface with their environmental activities. To the extent
possible, this risk has been addressed by delineating the
detailed functions and responsibilities of the USE, the sector
ministries and the provinces so that they will all be informed of
each other functions. Furthermore, the multi-sectoral MCE will
also be restructured (para. 3.05) to ensure coordination and
collaboration among the major beneficiaries of this project;



- 20 -                     TEMICALA
(c) the project is institutionally complex as it involves several
components and participating agencies. Although this risk is
inevitable in an environmental operation which includes a wide
range of activities and many sectors, it would be reduced by (i)
limiting project intervention to only three ministries and one
province; (ii) establishing joint work programs agreeable by
these agencies; and (iii) establishing an inter-ministerial
steering committee to oversee project implementation
(d) Tho enactment of the two laws that the project will prepare may
be delayed and could occur after the end of project
implementation. This risk was minimized by providing appropriate
technical assistance for the Government to prepare the above
mentioned laws so that they can be submitted to the Government
Council by the beginning of the third year of project
implementation.
VII. Ajreements Reached
7.01     The following actions were agreed with the Government:
(a) The Government will carry out the Project in accordance with the
program outlined in the policy letter delineating the priority
objectives of the Government for environmental management and a
time schedule for processing the priority policy actions
(para 1.19);
(b) it will ensure that the restructured NCE is operational by
July 1, 1994;
(c) it will maintain an interministerial steering committee with
membership and TORe acceptable to the Bank;
(d) It will carry out a mid term review by September 30, 1996 to
assess project progress on the basis of agreed indicators.
7.02     Conditions for Logan Effectivenes  would iclude submitting a copy of
the revised decree for the NCE to the Government Council (para. 3.06), and
establishing the interministerial steering committee (para. 4.01).



-      r-:      :i            i -                       -      -   |l.l-
w~~~~l                         llj      4      II    *li   ".  >-o
_ _ _~~~~  -   _ _                          I                f
,[gp;[ |ItiB   }    Ifalfa  !}!    !       gT!21     Xt
.      .                     ~~~~~~~~. U.7
X  a         Xi        L  wL    _   _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _        - 



- 22 -
.overnment        Acton to B          Exet               Tae                 kaplemsnt
0we"              Takn                Outpto                                Agmiis
de _e ___            wo _u           is 4               De                  S
_lft           an EUAto do
10..
it.               Peeps ntwl= of tO   Sta  ad Mb* b       a  96             USE
do ft          kw an dm            01 buoA
*aum*    tu_d pPago=  P- to 00
12. S_ Submllo  to *                  DMal w  pwu    Jun 96                 USE
*A I%d          d kw on            bydts GovW M0
bamew*ca       dbie l and            a
bexudo wonu
to woGouem
13. lmplmamn  15_bldiut of a    su" Mdb                  Jun 96             Us1coaor
Im _ua         feau c _ollo    Itutulad  da
Ue I           abpn f      l _ opu I
14.               IawaOb ldunest of   Daubs. Colhcdlon  3Ju 96              USEICORmEm
ofa Ntlo        _rlw and eeod    is hd ed and                            IMAAJJ¶fl%
Emtkovmm        e _onewl           Wna"lmn MITI=
b_ _maah       hntza mod           to um ru
t5. S _a&emh      lib    o  of Its    Daft law qpruia. 97                   USe
thelesal       drft lawan          byl as Go,nmg
plu_to co    to
*0 Governemet
IS. Smsrabentq    Uaabllim.t of       Repwt an Wmt of    Dec.97             USWICo,*amor
die    hDOoh                       enairo_me  is
*Wo,*          mwoalt  otgad       ocomipud
fremm   _                                                _
en ~ gnq dsduiu..



- 23 -
TCICAL- AM   - SCH*ULE 2
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEKENT PROJECT
ObcPtiv0 and DescriLtion
1.       The purpose of the manpower tralning program is to improve the
technical and managerial capabilities of thle environment institutions sectors.
The training programs will involve primarily the USE, MAAR, MPW, the EOU of
Fes, and the NCE, and will also include staff from other sector ministries,
NGO, public and private sector firms and local government.
2.       This program has two elements: (a) in-country technical and
managerial training; (b) overseas training.
(a) In-country Technieal and Managerial Training.  This element's
objective is to provide practical training in high priority
disciplines where there is a clear need for improving the skills
and capabilities of participating organizations. The selection
of training programs will be based on the planning activities and
work programs of USE, MAAR, MPW and the NCE.
Focussed Training in Morocco:
(i)    Attachment A provides a list of training topics which
would be updated yearly. The recommended training
program within each discipline is designed to enhance
existing skills in the environmental field and develop
new ones to achieve the objectives defined by the
executive management of the implementing agencies. The
focus will be on technical and managerial training.
(ii)    all training courses will be of 3-5 work days duration
and emphasize practical skills training programs
providing a basis for immediate application to the job.
All courses include short exercises and workshop sessions
using moroccan data if appropriate. The courses will be
attended by an average of twenty participants. Each
participant will receive a course manual in French. All
training courses will be evaluated by participants.
Training modules consisting of sequential courses for the
same discipline will be evaluated by the Contractor.



- 24 -
ThCH!CL  ANXL         CEDL 
(iii)   Expatriate instructors belonging to a consulting firm(s)
will be responsible for teaching the course modules.
Moroccan instructors (trainers) recommended by the
implementing organizations or belonging to the
organization will attend the courses as participants.
Whenever a second course offering will occur, both
trainers will present the courses.
(iv)    Over the four years of the project, 15-18 courses will be
conducted in Morocco in the form of seminars and
workshops for 500-600 professionals.
(b) Selected Training gutside Korocco.  The component will also
provide highly specialized training in Europe or the United
States. The EMP will fund specialized non-academic courses or
industrial training - during the project, 10 participants will
receive training in specialized non-academic, non-degree courses
discipline not covered by training in Morocco. Participants
could be assigned to work as interns with a foreign company to
learn and practice highly specialized environmental concepts,
techniques, process or skills in an actual job setting.



- 25 *
XvFNCa  AM          HEDUE 
APPMIDX A
IN CONTR  TRANING C0iaU&fl*
Estimated N=ber of Participants
.,  -   ..    .   .  .        ~~~~FY94   PY95      PY96      FY97l
General Courses
Environmental Assessment Procedures,        20        20        20       20
Guidelines                                                                      l
Environmental Audits                        20        5         15       15S
Environmental Economics                     20        10        10       10
Evromntal Law                       __                         _20  20
E_virotme _t and Health                                         10       10
Management of Solid Waste and                         10        10        10
Industrial Pollution _______________
Environmental Management                    20        10        10
Waste Resource Management                             10        10        10
Clean Technologies _                                  10        10
Specialized Courses
Data Utilization and Management                       10        15        10
Ambient Air Quality Monitoring                        10        15        10
Air Pollution Control Technologies                    5         5         10
Ecological Effect and Misuse of
Pesticides                                            5         10       10
Water Reuse; Legal, Ecological and
Health Aspects                                        5         10        10
Planning and Design of Sewerage
Systems                                               5         10       10
Industrial Water                                      10        10       20
Water Conservation (including treating
technologies for industrial water)                    10        10       20
TOTAL                                       80       150       200       175
* Tentative list to be updated yearly.                          M\ :\au\p0*M\"NdWs2



- 26 -            T4IMCLA  A   L :  T  I
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Ministry of the Interior
Under Secretariat of State for the Protection of the Environment
POLIYLS
(English Translation)
The President of the World Bank
Dear Mr. President:
Before setting out our policy with regard to protection of the
environment I would first like to express our satisfaction at the constructive
relationship that has developed on environmental issues between this
department and the World Bank. Our dialogue fully reflects the world-wide
consensus and political commitment to cooperate in the area of the environment
and sustainable development which was established at the highest level at the
Rio Conference exactly one year ago.
We have high hopes that the Environmental Management Project (EMP),
on which we embarked more than two years ago, in conjunction with the Bank,
will further consolidate this relationship and provide us with substantial
support in the area of institutional strengthening. This project can make a
concrete contribution to the attainment of Morocco's policy objectives in the
area of the environment and sustainable development.
The political resolve to make the environment one of the focal points
of Morocco's development strategies and programs is reElected in the
establishment in August 1992 of the Under Secretariat of State for the
Protection of the Environment in the Office of the Minister of the Interior;
its principal tasks and functions are based on the directives and guidelines
issued by His Majesty the King.
This is a decisive step in that it is intended to ensure that
environmental conce .s are integrated into the development process in which
Morocco is resolutely engaged.



- 27 -              NCICL AMN   NT 1
The Under Secretariat is the Government department responsible for
defining and coordinating Morocco's environmental policy and evaluating its
Implementation; it has identified priorlty actlon areas that will all
contributo to achieving the objectlves of sustainable development, thus making
management of the environment an essential component in Morocco's overall
economic and social development policy.
1.       Strengthoning the InstitutLonal and-Legal Framework
Since there can be no effective action on behalf of the envlronment
and sustainable development without an appropriate institutional and legal
framework, the strengthening of the units responsible for managing the
environment should in practice take the form of the organization and
establishment, within the government, of a central department responsible for
the environment, namely, the Under Secretariat of State. This is a political
decision of great significance, recognizing as it does the need for better
management in this area and for shared responsibility among all Morocco's
partners.
The functions and responsibilitles of the Under Secretariat have been
carefully defined and are now in the process of being approved by the
competent government authorities. Its principal functions can be summarized
as follows:
-* Formulation of environmental policies and strategies so as to
ensure that environmental considerations are incorporated in
development activities.
C Coordination of environmental protection and enhancement
activities and operations, on the clear understanding that the
sectoral ministries are each responsible for the management and
promotion of the environment in their sector, and particularly
for the executlon of concrete programs to protect it.
*   Continous monitoring and evaluation of the environment on the
basis of scientific knowledge of the environmental situation and
the acquisition of pertinent basic data, as well as the
introduction of environment impact assessments. In this area,
the National Environmental Laboratory for Pollution and Nuisances
will play an essential role in the scientific monitoring of
pollution.
The same is true of the National Observatory for the Environment,
which will play a similar role in the continuous assessment of
the status of the environment in Morocco.
*   Promotion of information, awareness-building, education and
continuous training with a view to generating nationwide support
and helping to prepare future generations to manage the
environment in a rational manner. The awareness program



- 28 -            TECH=rIA ANN   - OE: I
regarding the linkages between populatf.on, environment and
education will be energetically pursued and developed.
* Reform of the legal framework so as to endow Morocco with a set
of laws and regulatory and economic instruments to promote the
attainment of the objectives of environmental policy and
encourage socio-economic partners to contribute effectively to
protecting the environment. A case in point is the draft law on
the Protection and Promotion of the Environment, submitted to the
Government Council in May 93, which will serve as a benchmark for
the updating of existing legal instruments. The juridical
concepts incorporated in this draft law will enable Morocco's
environmental management problems to be addressed in a global,
coordinated fashion. In addition to this law, other legislation
will be prepared on priority basis, including laws on the
integrated pollution control for the industrial establishments,
on chemicals and toxic wastes and on environment impact
assessments.
His Majesty's Government, well aware that the environment will be the
focus of increasing attention, and convinced of the increasingly important
role that the Under Secretariat will play in socio-economic activities, has
decided to make a significant increase in the department's budget to
DH 30 million for 1993, a seven-fold increase over the previous year.
This budget is basically intended to support pilot actions and other
initlatives, specifically the preparation of environmental monographs, audits
and lmpact assessments and the strengthening of monitoring activities. This
increased budget should also finance a significant strengthening of multi-
disciplinary human resources, so that the whole range of environmental issues
can be addressed.  These new resources will reinforce Morocco's environmental
policy, as reflected in a number of programs and projects both initiated and
monitored entirely by the Under Secretariat.
The necessary strengthenlng of the institutional framework will
naturally involve the reinforcement of organizations responsible for
environmental management at both the national and local level.
Hence, along with the establishment of the Under Secretariat, the
role, functions and operations of the National Council of the Environment will
be redefined and its membership broadened through the inclusion not only of
representatives of the Government but of local authorities, the private sector
and professional organizations and associations. This will make the Council
an effective tool for the formulation and implementation of environmental
policies.  The draft law amending the 1980 decree that established the Council
will very shortly be submitted to the responsible authorities.
In addition, to enhance the effectiveness of environmental
management, measures will be initiated to strengthen the operational functions
of ministerial departments, particularly the Ministries of Public Works and



- 29 -            TECHNICAL IY Y   :       1
Agriculture, and also agencies in the provinces, beginning with the Wllaya of
F&s. Decentralized units will also be called upon to play a leading role in
regional and local environmental management and to ensure continuous liaison
with the central authorities.
II.      Integration of the Environmt in DLU1geat Activities.
Since environmental problems are intimately linked with those of
development, the integration of the environment and development Is absolutely
essential to the successful executlon of Morocco's envlronmental polliy. The
preparation and adoption of a national action plan for the environment has
been of great benefit to the Government in the formulation of its
environmental policy and strategy.
The objective of this plan, which has just been launched, is to
incorporate environmental issues in development activities, utilizing
continuous monitoring and evaluation of the environment, legislation, control
measures and economic instruments. The plan will also identify those
development actions capable of alleviating the pressure on natural resources.
It is expected that the plan will be finalized in December 1994.
The National Observatory for the Environment, which will include a
databank and a network of appropriate partners, will perform an essential
function in this area.
III.     Depollution Activities
In view of complexity and cost of depollution operations, it seems to
us opportune to undertake them first through a certain number of limited
actions of demonstrative nature, which are designed to develop a future
direction, to contribute to the concrete depollution and to participate in the
active research of clean technologies and their transfer. These include the
implementation of certain demonstration projects, involving the discharges
from olive oil mills and tanneries (Wilaya of Fes), sugar mills and alcohol
distilleries (Kenitra Province) and solid wastes from the Safi urban area.
These projects will provide an opportunity for the application of
institutional, legal and economic instruments, and the experience drawn from
them will be utilized in other parts of the country.
These pilot operations will also permit the introduction of
environmental audits within enterprises and regions as well as the application
of modern regulations and incentives systems.
It should be noted that certain donors have already expressed an
interest in contributing to the financing of these projects, specifically the
Government of Sweden and the African Development Bank, which have already sent
a first mission to Morocco for this purpose. However, given the scope of the
EMP, assistance from the World Bank for the process of seeking the cofinancing
needed for project implementation is absolutely essential.



-30 -             TECHINfILM      X AM -KEM 
IV.      Developgent of the Congeration
The complexity, diversity and interdependence of the main components
of the environment, along with the scale of the issues involved, imply that
this is an area very well suited to cooperation and partnership at all levels:
national, subregional, regional and global.
At the national level, Morocco's action plan will therefore be the
result of a process of consultation with and participation by the different
players involved in environmental policy (public authorities, elected bodies,
private sector and NGOs).
In addition, given the significance of environmental issues on the
one hand and the indisputable importance of cooperation as a means of
achieving the objectives of sustainable development on the other, bilateral
and multilateral cooperation are also basic features of Morocco's policies in
this area.
Consequently, international cooperation will be consolidated and
further developed, specifically with financing agencies such as UNDP, the
World Bank, the EIB and the ADB.
In this connection, we regard the METAP program as a pertinent
example of cooperation at the Mediterranean region level, and in our view
implementation of the EMP meets the need for effective cooperation and mutual
solidarity.
These are the main elements of Morocco's policy for the environment.
Nonetheless, environmental actions require the support and assistance of all
socio-economic partners, the public authorities, the private sector, elected
bodies, local authorities and NGOs. The essential need, in fact, is for a
global and integrated approach that combines the efforts of all these parties.
World Bank assistance for implementation of the Environmental
Management Project will support our efforts at institutional strengthening,
since in our view a sound management structure is essential if the sustainable
development that Morocco earnestly desires is to be achieved. We are hoping
to make optimal arrangements for the finalization of this project so that
implementation can begin in the very near future (a timeschedule is also
attached). In addition, all the necessary steps have already been taken to
put in place the team of Moroccan experts that will be responsible for
management of this important project.
Yours Sincerely,
Signed,
Driss Basri
Minister of the Interior and Information



- 31 -            TECHNICAL ARMEX - NOTE 1
A¶WA(QNEN TO THE POLICYLETE
SCHEWLE
Priority Actions                                             Target DatU
1)       Hiring of consultants for the institutional
and legal framework                                 June 1994
2)       Completion of the study for updating the
legal and regulations framework                     June 1995
3)       Completion of the studies for the hazardous
wastes                                              June 1995
4)       Completion of the studies for the integrated
pollution control                                   January 1996
5)       Completion of the draft text on the
environmental impact assessment                     December 1994
6)       Hiring of consultants for the design of
the enforcement/monitoring system                   June 1994
7)       Completion of the study on the Economic
Incentives                                          June 1996
8)       Hiring of consultants for the establishment
of the National Environmental Information
Network                                             December 1994
m:\$a\$W\posbhdn\t..1



TECmxcAr. =   -                         OOMB MIGO= - NMTE 2
Qm CST8 S
(Mil1ions de dirhatm)                          (Million  de dollars)
CoQ                        _     _       __ O|NAM  DEVIE     TOTAL          MONNAM          DEVE              TOTAL         S Fops=        S DU tWTAL
LOCALE                                         LOCAr"                                          EXIAN           DUCUT
DUErM
1. bmddn    uabb
USE                                     1,g.7           5,451.1        7     i           W.4            626.6            614.               74               9
UAAR                                    6a"             1,623.4        2,315.9           79.6           16.6             26662              70               3
PW                                       6925 I   ,      6U . 4        2,31S.9            79.6          1866             266.               70               3
WUJ of Po                                732.2          2117.0         2,8493             84.2          243.3            32m.5              74               3
SubSw   bel                               3,921.9        10,815.0        14,t36.9          450.8         1,243.1             3.9               78             17
2. Ndm  Cedl of tbe I                        S93          1346.0          1,09.3            643            154.7           219.0               71              2
3. LeApl S,mgu.g                          290.4           4 .M            7,6.2            335.7           540.2           859                 62              9
4. C.lmce a&am                             2.691.?        4,79.0          7,W7             30.4            S51.6            61.0               64               9
S. NIbmi  hvkaI E   1tlnom
NUk o
USE                                     43.8            516.2         9O500              501.6          596.1         t1W.                  54              11
MAIl t                                  I,9.6            743.          2,723.1          227.             85#             313.0              27               3
NM                                      1,967.7          691.7         2.66              2262            79.6            3054               26               3
wan of cs                               1.013.7          2713           1,285.0          116.5           31.2            147.7              21               2
atimI NON                                 9324.9          6,893.7        16,2183          1.071.8          79.4           12                  4                19
6. Ibm. & bYr  Aswam                      3,907.2         2,874.4         6,781.7          449.1           330A            779.S               2                8
7. uwt sod Opmdom                        26.3S03          3,418.9        29,799.2        3,852.2           393.0          3,425.2              It             35
Tout 3ASEU OOStS                            49.71.8         34,6.7         84,552S          5.7133          4,001.4         9.7U.7               41             t0o
Pby        C   _ubgads                     1,217.9        518.9           2,816.7          140.0            83.8            23                5?               3
Pale Ca _dugadhs                          4,5L4           2,2813          6,37.7           527.9           26"2            75L0                33              8
Tou PnOeg1 C0SS                             55,St6.0        38,726.9       94,243.0         6,83.2          4.451A         10,8 32.
US9:      tthig Seeny  of de Ibt,d
MAALR:  NuM  d Aplmure  d Aeth  Roxm
mm:       mIi  of Ptlc Woft



YhOTA MM - MM= MM =Mu     - NM 2
Table I .2
__________________________TTALS WICLUDUIS COUTSUNCIES ENI *000) 1WOLO                                                    INO   w     MO
|OUIT                        1 t#31             13     1839        107        Told         1394         13o          I8"          lo           TOM
USE                                  4,23        t20.           W1         M74        3A6.7         4878         24            112.           87         92
MMR                                  1,5.9        1,019.2      392.         128.9     2S76.S        119.1         1171          45.1         14.8       2961I
MPfW                                  1,05.9      1,019.2      392.5        128.9     2X63          *19.1        117.1         4.1           148        296.1
w   sya of Fe                        1,790.9      t,013.2      324.7           -      3,1288        2.            116.          37.3           -39.6
SubW   uidoml Stag  mbs                 8,106.2     5,091.9     2,091.2      1,029.2    16,3183        931.7        58.3         24.4          1183       17.?
2. Natd C U ofe do                      $849.3       614.8        333.8       344.8      2.142.7        97.6         70.7         34            39A        24663
3. IpW Skwbeft_                         3,971.2     2.9303       2,7.?        153.1      8..4          4563         3368         17.9           17.6       9
4. C-0WHOW SSl                          262         2,970.1     1,2983       1048        8441.5        272.2        341.1        149.3         207.4       9703
S.  Iaduml k_om                              _           _           _    -                               -            -             -            -
Nowwoe (NERO
US8                                       -      2,U838       4,37.0       ,839.7    11,.1             -         332.0         53           4413       1,275
MAAR                                   259.3       96L9       1,00L 3       951.S     3,1.0          29.8         110.7        IU.9         109.4        So.?
259.3       938.6       983.3        9253      3,107.1        29.8        107.9         113.0        106.4       357.1
Wa of PFes                             248.9       467.8       488.7        2843       1,489.9       28.6         538            6.          32.7        71.3
&*ea1l HNM                               76735      5257.9      6,60.2       6.0013     18,877.1        88.2         44           8.4         68.8       2,13.8
6. Edos_ &AB            Awamu            755.9      3,394       2,1.4        1,488.0    7,759.7         86.9        397.         244.3        171.0        89.9
7. S   t ad Opasde                     ?7,642.8     8,170.8     8,275        8.186,0    325.2          8            92             1.2        90.9       3,709.8
Told PROMr COIS                          24.461.1    28,4264      28.2        19,00.3     9443.0        2,8116       3.67.4       26           21847       10,62.
__ _ ._ -                                      -,-                                                                   . S  



_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                          ~B - m     *  __                   _
_t:-_1; C*du            C                  £s 2C_                     4                 086S  6__66                       $         6h*~
-  -     -    -    -    -                                  -                       au mm- PO==-Sa -   -m                                 - a
d~~~~RW                          M ._ _t SUMAR
Pa          664Ta                       km
_*6tO,POM                M    F    NZ      O     BW mm  § 4   01           9          t2DD t o         A        UN t MO                mm t 1       Ab       *     A      owl          Tom 1
s. w~~~~~~~~~~~~~   0666 ~ ~  ~          ~                   WON        01D
3.   Y     2tV0         7WS           XS          92D          t          92D           t          147.0          _           _           _        23t  &/*1   m 
A. _ . _  Iab P.
t. _Ca 6
1  II u C1Mm*L           "M6.        "4.            I".        42.         24.        167*           46*        342"        160         160.0       162*         a"            -      1.237          6.0       66
T         L              nu0         12            126.        26.0  3      6.0 21 9                 7          24.0 n        t            -           -         7*            -       Ils           6a        UA
&&WCOM*.bAL                 360*        160"          10"          78*        a".        401.9         126*        W  i76"0 160                        la".0 10a" 1620                   2si.                    It"16.
Cs_as                       -           -             -       16*"     4      .       M22.0         6_           76                                                                   11316.0                  60*
2.t                         274.        70.6            0.6                  la"          S*           to"          41.0                                  -        21A6          -       126.           6a "2.2
4.  'wA)gtw 170A                         1              2         46.6        27.0    J                   -        26.         113.0       112.0        26.6        Xi"*          -      1MM.9          4.9   eSt2 
r opsda                      2.          2.2            2.2          -        24*l                 -      t     49.2           60.0         42.8    9 t.2                   -             202          1          2.2_
TASPO W         CSS            634.0       266.2         262         237.6      219.         76            MA       1   .7        313*        206.t        47.7        7  79.I       -      4628.6         6          32.
1.             .                                      -                                                -           -           -           -           -            -   .A64          1.6...          - _
2.OPuMO                                                                                                                                                                    el"  ----        - 63  61n".
I Tve67uuo                              -                                     -- 0                                                         --                              6632        66.
TGT#L laumE        to=~                                                                                                                                                          U.292      346                
TOSww.RMa. 0066                  4         I6s"          2a6"       327.6       219*        676.          6610      1.6.?         3130        a"6.        147.7       "7We    3426.         3M4=.           U       223.
pqyo  CandamSd              42.1        134             3         1A 12A.2 A43.                         42.1       6we          m6.         17A         6.2         760        2-         221            -
466C.9GWs                    47,7        16.           16.6       'Lo         16.1        49.1          66.        121A         36.6        33.         16.2        73.4      2.8         79.           2.2       26.9
TOW     Wcots                   23         26.           296.1      366*        246.        666.          $7.        .276        266.7        367.1      1713         ON$*    3.700         0.622          3.2      366.
7w               60*         27*           27*~~~~~~~~~~V  44.6    14.        126.2        149.2       17*          64.6        63.         20.          91.1    1076.       169            22         6.
P  ~~~,p               660.7~SW    206.          266*        2667       ¶722        606.          616L4       669%6.46.                            31.        274.1      426.       4.41*4*IA.



- 35 -
mRCoZCA  AM=E  - Pflo3uC! OSt Uma~-N    2
Up to    1994   1995   1996   1977
Project
start
Inflation (in *)a/
All
Anual Rates
Local                           2.0   4.4    5.4    5.7    s.2
Foreign                         1.4   2.8    2.8    2.8    2.8
Compounded Rates
Local                           2.0   4.2    9.4   13.4  21.7
Foreign                         1.4   2.8    5.7    8.7  11.7
Exchange Rates
(Local/Foreign)b/
All
Rates Actual Used               8.7   8.7    8.7    8.7    8.7
Constant Purchas.               8.7   8.8    9.0    9.2    9.5
Parity Rates
% Deviation                     0.0  -1.4   -3.4   -S.9  -8.2
a/ Yearly values are within each project year
b/ Yearly values are at project year midpoints



- 36 -
*DcHMax.x1~M     -    3WT COSTS 8A   -    2
ICROR RSt              world      cral         $oti1
X. Investumet costs
1. Consultant services
Local Consultants           1,285.9        266.9   1,552.9
Foreign coneultants         1,184.5        131.6   1,316.1
subtotal Consultant Services   2,470.4        398.5   2,869.0
2.  Studies                    1,023.4        235.0   1,258.4
3.  Training                   1,41S.2          0.0   1,41S.2
4.  Eulipment                  1,090.9        245.0   1,335.9
S.  Operations                      --        244.2      244.2
TOTAL INVUTMNWT COSTS             6,000.0      1,122.7   7,122.7
II. Pecurreut Costs
1. Personnel.                        _      2,137.7   2,137.7
2. Operating *xpense                __        663.1      663.1
3. Ihr"  . Subsiatc                 -_        909.0      909.0
TOTAL RiCUUEUT COSTS                  -_       3,709.0   3,709.8
TOTAL DCSSMSMUT                   6,000.0      4,832.5  10,832.5



- 37 -
ammo
lan
CM14P*N0i=                                       Totall_
cM9        ali
1. Institutional Strengthening
USE                                   807.5         116.3      923.6
man                                 C266.3           29.9      296.1
MPW                                  266.3           29.9      296.1
Wilaya of Fee                        314.7           44.9      359.6
Subtotal Instit. Strsithening          1,654.8        320.9    1,675.7
2.  Natl. Bnviront. Council              202.9          43.4      246.3
3.  Legal Strengthening                  830.6         138.2      966.6
4.  Compliance system Dvlpt.             821.1         149.2      970.3
S.  Natl. Env. 1IPfo. Network
USE                                1,064.4          211.2    1,27s.6
HMA                                   251.6         114.1      365.7
MPm                                   251.6         10S.5      357.1
Wilaya of Fes                        122.1           49.1      171.3
Subtotal NEIN                          1,669.8         480.0    2,169.0
6.  Educ. & 2nV. Awareness               800.8          91.0      691.9
7.  Recurrent Cost & Operat.                --       3,709.8    3,709.8
Total Disbursement                      6,000.0       4,832.5   10,832.5



I~~~ I0' jI.,jjjj
I~~~. s    ZrgI~I  I                        
f   -ii--                            -i   lF2
I~~~ 8E -



b~~~~~~ 99
*1  .     ...                                            _
I-fI'1
I'#4
' F4 
fi11   !     11Il'X«llllli!!lall



-~~ ~ ~   40 
ii  ii                         i
.31X    II        Z j  I I    I   I      I
!                        I E1 0B    !         0 i t  'li  II
1111il    iiI 



TEm!gL AM= - PUQ=  O3TIMB- IMCT    AM TAR== - NM A
OwUum                          As_iWn                          O0US                                  I  om         sl          RI I       MI AI..
compwos, 2- uscwui  do         2.1   softi dim  s  dol  NM3    2.3   ISd=ns to dos But of      Au    1994                      USE
*madhll COui of                                           -l 
aimCI               2.2   Dswbgsuw ofs              2.2              *'quadmrneD        _ow  1994                  USs
aMd optaim                      _wub hNCE
2.3   Dwopbmet otfdim          1.3  2wIi Ons ND minmbam,   km 1993                             tW
,I I MD of NM  wombm           an ace sow
C.m_  3:_i h1und'f  a          3.1  labs aid _*w ofd           3.1.1 Ammomiu  of ctid% km      Ducu  1994                     USE
99E5U38 do lagal aid      uiqlaws kmaodassa dayouped
buS    eSqll bz                      ~~~~~~b dcd
3.1.  Updas of shawl kws ao    km 19" 
1.2   Pr aasor DAdse for  3.2  SMmhdoo o aDiAdasa u t    Doca0we 1995                          WIB
pebl mawt bvaem                die die Gonmwna   Council
3331 P?pq,mdosf TWa farsoly   Duemba 1994                      USE
3.3   Pa  law for iuepuId      33.2  Piapodn of                Amrnloi 1995                    WI
pw     bow_                    b  X _t 
_       - waa
33.3  S-mbda  of sdel I  to     _usy 1997                      WI
an0 mm  COunci
3.4.1 P        dis  TOb T w h *    DnsrA  1994                 USE
3.4   ab"1 ai te
an" kw                    3.4.2 D_bgodn of   DtD b   194                                 USW
3.A3   _ _*mhulm of lea am to   am 1996                        USW
owam_m
33   iag                       34  1Talde  40 of an            Aim 195                        uK
w_ of di. mvu



I £ |  |  £ 2  £  M 42 
0~~~~~~~1  X1 X                 A   
I II II  fii .   hi il ii J,il  N1  ll,E  ill
}si i   X I3t  j*   jil t         i
,~ii r h H iii,'
4ti1001~ ~~il I
ill



I S~~I
§   1  {      !{   1X, }  ih 
t   | ii       t~~~1 -   qa  2
P   t  t  tf  E  W   E h   -   *  ph  E
I   e    i   - it     i  i   £  i l
~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I    I1 
ml~~~~~~ a,  



:T3!L AN  - PR_.U~ CTnTB-DICa1_  ,N  PNR  -DT4
ENVIRONEAL MANAGEMENT OECr
PROJICT INDICATORtS AND TARGETS
A. PROJBCr lNDICATORS AND TARGT
YEARS
Roa=cC0woxl                                                1       2        3       4
t.. .td Vwi of *aba  by downs _n tab     g I
-o  aw    m                                            0 %     2 S      S%      t % 
2 Re        ofa It   Vf t_
Imta uhahtdas sa Pa*I Film I eacisat (sAdA e           20      40       X0      too
S. PROJECr TARGE;
YEARS
CGOAIS   ut1        1       2        3       4                0
1.   w       ;_      a
dOtf        k _
(a)  AcdvW oo asir comwAv  wl&
use MAAR ad MPW              100%    Agdvi            100%i



Ii        aa       I EgB§B
"  a_ a                  -a    a            I
- e a4i e a _              a           II
1}0'}}0  j0   ~I   I- i
Is  e8. § a. s        *   U   8            I;E 
,l^Xxill,0i§,1tg,}   i 



DTC_AL AV=  - Pna=  WM=. I                                    mmSND TI          - mm 4
YU1L                      *                                                                _ DOM
crc         aw      s                                 GOA.S8      aImN              1          2           34                                   OT
(e)   TatoFaw
-    P     _aIao tan s   cOd.mkaw         100%       Ten                           o00%*                                            US
-    Pspamds of izma _agutd
_uoo asm                            100%        Ten                          to00%                                            1
(d0    Dam  Rawmur
-    Wodop an                 w ls       3           N _di                         2            1
-    padc                                60          Padc_                         40          2D                                  USE
-    &ady _droa                          2                                                                                          US
c~~~~t  I  Set           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~USE
(a)    Fie-s
-    Seoswsmies or eol} d    _
aid  p  iislbds                     to0%                                      to1%                                            UWW    o  es#
-  Jida ft fIbr One OIL
tmaes, aid SW ladow                 100%        haZ                          100%                                             USB
-     So*  r_sug            le
Inhi  II                           100%         Shd                                       100%                               USE
(b)   Pdndms load iulys OP    Sa itm)          3              Palm            1          2                                               uSwmU . Fes
(c)   Rodbck pawed                              100%        Su*                          IOS
(0)   hOnda. conSulfti                         100%         Sud                           too%
(c)   P     _uiky Siles                        2            So*                                      2
(f    HUM  Reamas
Wo*Wdaops an buideas wa.
nm   a c, pdtd  bW
cone                               3            N _mber           1                      2                                   USE



TECHilcAL A4E  - PROJECT OTT. UNICA R                         Z       - N     4
DWmDc ScomFoKWI                                GOALS      tK              1         2          3          4
S.   NadamJl hEm'ns  1mbI  u fuwtai
(a)   EhylNwa  khbnd  Kutwai
-     Ne 8wait apIc.do  a in u       3         N*er            3                                                      W
C nmur .ipua                   S' 5Ibu                   5                                                    UIIWhs
-    DaD ba uftwm                    8         Sct             8                                                    U     WMAARAPW
-      _      r-ud                t          Sse             I                                                    IIESLMUIW
-  _oXa                                        9                                                                    *ap ae bd
(b)  lhbuig
Sysddsu                        3          Nuzbe           I          I         I                               USEIMAA3JIP
-    pacPIudd_                       60        P *1su          20         20        20                              U     £A
-    rashd  _ws                      6         Pa,e            2          2         1          1
(c)  Ss                                                                                                                                    t
-    1A*mm p&iss ad he for SUice   100%        So*s                                 100%                            1383
6.   Mubo md 04MMM  Awm                                                                                                                          I
(a)  Cast                                 2                          1i  I     I                                         t1S
pits                           40         piW             20        20                                        UV
0b)  Cammhu mukg OEM                      30            _           3D0                                                   W1
(C)    ere- 1mm ee_mm                     20         e_                                             20                   OmI
(d)   e4v *_M                             3            P            1          2 
()  _ Vi3 Sa mIe                                                               I         t                               USII
TV                                        I          e                                   I                               USMm
11:Ii W   %30w14



- 48 -
TECHNICAL ANNEXM     S  QF DOCSME NTS AND DATA
AVIILABLE IN TH  PROECT FILES - NOTE 5
LIST OF DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT  ILE8
I.    Index of Project Files
II.   Environment Issues
(b)   Consultant Report: Summary of Institutional, Legal and Pollution
Study
(a)   World Bank Summary of Sector Paper on the Environment
III. Technical annexes relevant to the Project
(a)   Functions and responsibilities of SSE/PR
(b)   Environmental functions for sector ministries
(c)   Environmental functions of local government
(d)   Joint work programs between USE/MAAR/MPW
(e)   Role of bilateral agencies
IV.   Project Description
(a)   Development of a nationwide environmental monitoring system
(b)   Environmental training program
(c)  Reforming the National Council of the Environment (NCE)
(d)   Enhancement of the legal and regulatory framework
(e)  Implementation of an enforcement/compliance system
(f)   Promoting an environmental awareness
(g)   Establishment of a National Environment Information Network (NEIN)
V.    Summary of TOR for consultants
(a)   Package 1: Technical assistance for strengthening
the institutional and legal framework
(b)   Package 2: Establishment of an enforcement/compliance
system for environmental protection
(c)   Package 3: Environmental awareness program
(d) Package 4: Establishment of a national environment
information network
(e)   Summary of all studies financed in all the four packages
VI.   Project Documents, IEPS, FEPS, Authorization
VII. Proposed USE Organigram, recruitment plan and budget and Decree of the
National Council of the Environment (NCE)
VIII. World Bank: Royaume du Maroc. Document sectoriel sur Ilenvironnement
(June 1991)
IX.   SWEEP-SCANDIA Consult: Etude institutionnelle, juridique et de la
pollution (December 1992)
K.    Chemionics International: Mobilizing Morocco's Private Sector for
Environmental Management (January 1993)
XI.   SWEEP-SCANDIA Consult: Feasibility Study for Treatment of Rejects from
SUNAG II and SOTRANEG, Sidi Alall Tazi (April 1993)
XII. SWEEP-SCANDIA Consult: Feasibility Study for Treatment of Rejects from
Tanneries in Doukkarat (April 1993)
XIII. SWEEP-SCANDIA Consult: Feasibility Study for Treatment of Rejects from
Olive Oil Industries in Doukkarat (April 1993)
XIV. SWEEP-SCANDIA Consult: Feasibility Study of Waste Handling in Safi
(April 1993)                                               MA=\Wp0nftS



