Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20590
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36470; SCL-3647A; SCPM-3647S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR AN ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JUNE 22, 2000
Rural Development, Water and Environment Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 2000)
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
0.098 MAD = US$ I
US$ 1 = 10.21 MAD
FISCAL YEAR
Since 1996:  July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CDF          Country Development Framework
CED          Comptroller of Expenditure Commitmnents
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Project
EMS          Environmental Management Systems
EU           European Union
FY           Fiscal Year
GOM          Government of Morocco
lCB          International Competitive Bidding
ICR          Implementation Completion Report
MATEH        Ministry of Land Development, Environment, Urbanism and Habitat
MNA          Middle East and North Africa
MOA          Ministry of Agriculture
MOI          Ministry of the Interior
CNE          National Environment Council (Conseil National de l'Environnement)
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
OED          Operations Evaluation Department
PDES         Economic and Social Development Plan (Plan de Developpement E~conomique et
Social)
PR           President Report
SGG          Government General Secretariat (Secretariat General du Gouvernement)
SEE          State Secretariat for the Environment (Secretariat d'Etat de I 'Environnement)
SSE          Under-Secretariat for the Environmnent (Sous-Secretariat d'Etat de I'Environnement)
(SEE's predecessor)
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager/Director:   Salah Darghouth
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Nicole Glineur



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 10
6. Sustainability                                                                     12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      13
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    16
9. Partner Comments                                                                   17
10. Additional Information                                                            26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005504                                       Project Name: ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
Team Leader: Nicole Glineur                               TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 22, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT                       L/C/TF Number: CPL-36470;
SCL-3647A;
SCPM-3647S
Country/Department: MOROCCO                                              Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: VI - Enviromnental Institutions
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/05/91                                Effective: 10/06/94
Appraisal:  04/20/93                                  MTR: 06/06/97
Approval:  09/14/93                                Closing: 12/31/98             12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: KINGDOM OF MOROCCO/UNKNOWN
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                         Harinder Kohli
Sector Manager:      Salah Darghouth                            Anand Seth
Team Leader at ICR:   Nicole Glineur                            Sherif Arif
ICR Primary Author:   Harald Stier
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactoxy, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
An outline of a new Government policy on the enviromnent was presented in the National Report submitted
to the 1992 UNCED Conference and reflected a strong, yet new, commitment to protecting the enviromnent



with appropriate natural resource management and a minimization of pollution. At that time, in Morocco,
there was a real vacuum in the legal and institutional framework in the environmental field and
environmental questions had been handled by the Directorate of Environment and Urban Planning in the
Ministry of Interior (MOI). With this new emphasis, a separate Under-Secretariat for the Environment
(SSE) reporting directly to the MOI minister was created. To implement the Government policy, SSE
required to build up its technical capacity and operational procedures needed to be developed while at the
same time the overall institutional (both at central and local level) and legal framework for environmental
protection had to be strengthened. At the Government's request, the Bank had the opportunity to assist
Morocco in developing the regulatory and institutional framnework, formulating an environmental policy
and developing appropriate economic and financial instruments to ensure the integration of effective
environmental management into Morocco's micro and macro economic policies.
Hence, a technical assistance project was prepared with the following objective:
"to assist the Government in strengthening its institutional and regulatory framework for managing
environmental protection. It is expected that the establishment of the needed environmental institutions and
full development of the necessary environmental laws would require a concerted and long term effort
spanning many years. The project, representing the first step of such efforts, will define the elements for
and initiate the process of strengthening the Government's environmental capacities."
The objective was in line with the 1993 Morocco Country Assistance Strategy. The project also
complemented other Bank-financed projects which relied on the enhanced capability of environmental
management. The project was viewed as providing an impetus to shift the region's conceptual framework
towards designing sustainable investment projects.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The main project components as stated in the President's Report (PR) were:
(i)    Strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of the Under-Secretariat of State for
Environment (SSE) as the central environmental authority, the Ministries of Agriculture and Public Works,
representing the sector ministries and the Wilaya (Province) of Fez representing the local government in
order to apply on a pilot basis the decentralized environmental management process.
(ii)    Reactivate the National Council of the Environment (CNE) to oversee the environmental activities
of the ministries.
(iii)   Reinforce the legal and regulatory framework by reviewing and updating existing regulations,
introducing the environmental impact assessment (EIA) as mandatory for new investment projects which
may have potential adverse environmental impact and assisting in the preparation of two new laws: the
permit law for integrated pollution control and the chemicals and toxic wastes control law.
(iv)   Design an enforcement and compliance mechanism for environmental protection through adoption
of the "command and control" approach based on norms and standards which were being developed with
the assistance of the German Agency for Technical Cooperation (GTZ), for chemical uses and the "roll
back" approach for point sources pollution. This component which was listed in the PR was financed with
- 2-



concessional aid and was not included in the legal agreement for the project.
(v)    Finance a series of studies on economic and financial incentives and measures for environmental
protection and for enabling Morocco to adopt European Standards in preparation for a free trade agreement
with EEC.
(vi)   Promote an environmental education and awareness programn outside the fornal education system
on the basis of a strategy which was developed with the assistance of the GTZ.
(vii) Establish a National Environment Information Network (NEIN) on a pilot scale in the form of a
central information node at the SSE and two service nodes at the ministries of Public Works and
Agriculture and the Wilaya of Fez.
The project would provide (a) provide technical assistance for six policy, economic, financial and legal
studies (272 months of international and local consultants); (b) organize 33 technical and specialized
workshops for 600-800 professionals from the sector ministries, local government, NGOs and private and
public sector consulting and industrial firms; (c) provide training abroad for 26 professionals; and (d)
furnish computers, vehicles, office equipment and audio-visual aids.
3.4 Revised Components:
During project implementation it was found necessary to regroup the project components into four "lots",
in order to obtain suitable packages for consultant contracts, putting together activities with matching skill
requirements for technical assistance needs. This was also necessary to better reflect the GOM budget
structure (budget lines) and thereby avoiding drawing from different budget lines to pay one consultant or
pay several consultants from the same line; which would have rendered execution more difficult. The
components were therefore regrouped into four lots without making any substantive change to the overall
project concept. This modification appears to have been made, defacto, early on by the GOM, before the
procurement process was launched, but it only appeared in Bank form 590s in June 1997, after the
mid-term review. The revised components were:
Lot 1: Legal and Institutional Component [containing components (i)-(iii) above]
Lot 2: Economic and Financial Instruments Component [component (v) above]
Lot 3: Environmental Information System (SIDE)[component (vii) above]
Lot 4: Environmental Education and Dissemination [component (vi)]
Because of the initial delay in project startup, compounded by additional delays due to the complexity of
the procurement/financial setup involving three agencies and the Wilaya of Fes, and the inexperience of the
implementing agency, the project could not be completed according to the original timetable. The
Government requested in February 1998 to: extend the closing date by 18 months, eliminate the Wilaya of
Fes pilot component, and hence reduce the loan amount by US$1 million (see below). Five reasons were
given for such changes:
*     Belief that the legal and institutional analysis carried out under the project would only prove useful
if Morocco could achieve concrete results in the areas of environmental legislation, institutional
coordination mechanisms, environmental planning and financial and economic instruments.
*     The catalytic role of the EMP in training, intemships, dialogue and inter-ministerial coordination
and with field staff needed to be maintained and strengthened.
- 3 -



*     The expected impact of the project with regard to sensitizing decision makers and the general
population to environmental issues.
*     The catalytic role of EMP in mobilizing financial resources and the support of donors could be
compromised if the project were to be closed without having obtained its objectives.
*     The project only became effective more than a year following Board approval and implementation
effectively only started in 1996.
Following a formal request from the Government of May 15, 1998, activities in the Wilaya of Fez were
cancelled, in conjunction with US$1 M of the loan amount, in October 1998 (reducing the loan to US$5
M). Activities in Fez had made no progress due to lack of counterpart funding, the Wilaya being unable to
budget the necessary resources. The local communities are administered under the Ministry of Interior. At
project preparation, with the SSE being part of the this ministry, there was a budgetary link and the
preparation team trusted that the Fez component would be budgeted. With this link broken as the SSE was
separated from the MOI (see section 4.1) other investment priorities were given preference. The elimination
of the "Wilaya of Fes" component was justified because of two key reasons: (i) important institutional
changes which occurred since the project was designed, had led to the creation of a Department of
Environment independent of the Ministry of Interior in charge of local governments; and (ii) the budget
process, as confirmed by the Ministry of Finance, did not allow government transfers from Environment to
local governments.
The GOM request for an 18 months extension of the loan closing date, from December 31, 1998 to June 30
2000 was considered by the November 1998 supervision mission during which it was decided to restructure
the project. The criteria which guided the restructuring of the project included: (a) direct contribution of
remaining activities to the development objectives of the project, (b) the elimination of the sub-components
and components which became obsolete either due to the evolving SEE organizational and administrative
framework or to the intervention of other donors, (c) the integration of the project within the Government's
new Social and Economic Development Plan (PDES); and (d) the establishment of a scheduled action plan
to enable project's completion within the extension period. As a result, the following changes were
undertaken:
(i)    cancellation of the training component of lot I (funded outside the project);
(ii)   cancellation of the lot 2 phase 2 study on Economic Instruments (the introduction of these
instruments was judged as prertature, by GOM, within the country's socio-economic context);
(iii)   cancellation of the Education and Awareness component (funded outside the project); and
(iv)   The SIDE component was refocused to be fully in line with the PDES and to operationalize the
products in order to enable decision makers to determine their priority activities on the basis of
reliable information as well as to disseminate information to all concerned parties.
On the basis of this restructuring, which led to the cancellation of another US$1.5 M (reducing the loan to
US$3.5 M) the Bank approved a one year extension of the project to December 31 1999. At the request of
the Government, an additional FF5.0 million was cancelled during the April 2000 supervision mission. The
amount corresponded to the equipment to run the SIDE which was to be procured with other funding. The
first bid for the procurement of the equipment was launched in early 1999, a second bid was launched in
the summer of 1999. To date the bidding has not materialized and a new bid is expected to be launched.
-4 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR rating unsatisfactory.
The project's objectives were largely in line with the CAS and consistent with government priorities at the
time. At the design phase several major risks to project implementation were identified, which did indeed
materialize, seriously impacting the quality of project implementation:
*      Environmental protection was new to the Government's political agenda, and its political
commitment uncertain;
*      The State Secretariat of the Environment, then Under Secretariat, (SSE) might experience
resistance from the sector ministries in cooperation;
*      The project was institutionally complex; and
*      Enactment of the two laws to be prepared under the project could occur after the end of project
implementation.
With hindsight, the scope of project activities exceeded the capacity of a new and inexperienced
government agency (SSE). The SSE carried insufficient weight in its efforts to coordinate between well
established ministries such as Agriculture, Public Works (now Equipment), Finance, as well as later on
with the Ministry of Interior. A less complex institutional involvement with a less ambitious set of project
activities might have had a greater chance of being fully implemented.
Although detailed project preparation was made with the help of consultants, it does not seem to have fully
taken into account the budgetary procedures, which proved fatal for project implementation. Need for the
finalization of TORs and preparation of bid documents were given as reasons by the Ministry of Finance
for delaying signing of the Loan Agreement until May 1994, eight months after Board approval. The
preparation team had correctly foreseen this problem and made the submission of bidding documents for
the first year of project implementation a conditionality but this was dropped by the FEPS review meeting.
Failure to clearly understand GOM budget procedures and to analyze the flow of funds for the project were
the major factors in causing an additional delay in the signing of the first two consultants contracts (Lots
1&2) until early 1996. An inter-ministerial steering committee had been set up (condition of effectiveness)
to provide overall policy guidance, review work programs and resolve any inter-ministerial implementation
issues. However failure to ensure that its members were the decision makers rendered it dysfunctional and
inter-ministerial disagreements seriously hampered project implementation. Also lack of sufficient attention
to the division of responsibilities for project implementation within the SSE, among its services, had led to
tensions, lack of commitment and lackluster performance. Yet a power struggle as a result of the
reorganization of the Directorate of Environment and Urban Planning and the creation of a separate
Under-Secretariat for the Environment with four Directorates was clearly seen and reported on by the
preparation team. No regular project progress reports have been prepared by the project executing agency
and since this was not a requirement in the loan agreement with GOM, it could not be enforced. The lack of
records has made it hard for Bank task teams to supervise the project and for the ICR mission to evaluate
the irnplementation performance.
Overall, the preparation team had correctly identified major project risks, but had not effectively been able
to mitigate these risks since they all seriously hampered project implementation.
- 5 -



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is unsatisfactory.
The projects objective to strengthen Morocco's institutional and regulatory framework for managing
environmental protection is not a precise measurable goal and the preparation team underlined in the PR,
that the project represented a first step in such efforts and would define elements for, and initiate the
process of, strengthening GOM's environmental capacities. Hence, the outcome of the project objective are
evaluated according to what the components were set out to achieve:
*      Institutional Strengthening. The institutional analysis of three main ministries and of research and
operational agencies under these ministries' jurisdiction was completed. Based on this analysis, two
scenarios for restructuring the Ministry of Environment were proposed. Operational directives and
procedures for the cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and other governmental departments
and NGOs are being formulated after an analysis of relationship between the National Council for the
Environment (CNE) and the National Supreme Council for Water and Climate. According to the January
1995 Decree (2-93-1011), CNE was restructured to broaden governmental and non-governmental
participation in the enviromnental policy formulation process. Its large constitution of more than 400
members renders it inoperational. During project implementation, the SSE was exposed to several
institutional changes unreiated to the project, which contributed to implementation difficulties. From having
been an under-secretariat in the Ministry of Interior, it became a separate ministry, then it became part of
the Ministry of Agriculture and is now State Secretariat for the Environment (SSE) within the Ministry of
Land Development, Environment, Urbanism and Habitat. The project contributed to elevate the
environmental agenda of the government and initiated communication between environmental units of many
ministries. At the time of the ICR mission, the SSE was working on a submission for Morocco to host the
seventh world Conference of Parties on Climate Change (COP 7). SSE also was able to place a
representative to mainstream the environment in each of the 31 commissions for the PDES. The National
Council of the Environment has been reactivated under the project but has failed in steering concerted
government action for reasons explained above. Because of lack of local budget, the creation of
environmental monitoring unit in the Wilaya of Fes has been canceled. The specific issue concerning
decentralization of environmental management is being dealt within the broader context of the
administrative reform in PDES.
*      Enhancement of the Legal Framework. The following legal instruments were prepared: draft
environmental framework law; legislation on Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), hazardous wastes,
toxic chemicals and integrated pollution control. These legal instruments are still at an early stage of the
approval process. This is not inconsistent with the situation in other MNA countries where often it takes a
decade to enact laws. This would appear to be an indication of lack of sufficiently strong government
commitment and leadership to arrive at a consensus among concerned ministries. Despite the fact that EIAs
are yet to be legally required, the project has succeeded in making the EIAs a practice for major projects
within key ministries and the private sector.
*      Financial and Economic Incentives. Based on the industrial audits carried out in the Sebou River
Basin, financial and fiscal instruments are proposed for pollution reductions, e.g., ecotax for sugar,
pollution charges and environmental covenants "Contrat de branche" for tanneries and olive-oil producers.
*      Environmental Information System. While the system is completed, the National Environment
Information System (SIDE) is not yet operational due to lack of equipment.
- 6 -



*     Environmental Education and Dissemination. A broader strategic dissemination plan for public
education is established annually by the SEE (Department for Public Dissemination and Education) and the
original proposed component became obsolete and was cancelled.
4.2 Outputs by components.
The lack of project progress reports and systematic monitoring data on project implementation, renders
difficult any effort of a systematic account for project outputs in relation to PR projections. Available
infornation shows the following results:
Institutional Strengthening and Legal framework (Lot 1).
Institutional Strengthening. Under this heading the following main outputs were produced:
(i)    A report on the institutional analysis, first submitted by the consultants in April 1997;
(ii)    A proposed institutional framework for the strengthening of the SEE was made in February 1998;
(iii)   A study to redefine the role of the National Council on the Environment, March 1999.
(iv)   A training program was first prepared by the consultants in 1996 and approved by the
participating ministries in 1997.
Although delayed, all the TA work to enhance the institutional capacity in the field of environment under
the project was carried out as planned. Based on the institutional analysis of the three main ministries and
the research and operational agencies under these ministries' jurisdiction, two scenarios for restructuring the
SSE were proposed and provided a basis for its reorganization. Little evidence has been found of the
impact of the EMP in strengthening environmental functions in the participating ministries and the
environmental unit established in Fez remained inactive. The separation of SSE from the MOI and creation
of a separate ministry of environment, in March 1995, broke the institutional ties with the Wilaya and
caused a void in terms of budget funding. This finally led to the cancellation of the Fez sub-component in
October 1998, as referred to earlier. Training under the project would have been beneficial at the outset
but later is was considered that sufficient training was provided under other programs and the
sub-component was finally cancelled in November 1998. Operational directives and procedures for the
cooperation between the SEE and other governmental departments and NGOs were being formulated.
CNE was restructured to broaden governmental and non-govemmental participation in the environmental
policy formulation process but failed to function (section 4.1). While the outcome of this component is
unsatisfactory, the outputs, as defined in the PR, were satisfactory.
Legal Framework. The following main outputs were obtained:
(i)    A review of legislation regarding the environment was carried out in 1996 and provided a basis for
the consultants work on the legal texts;
(ii)    a draft law and decrees on environmental impact assessment, April 1997;
(iii)   a draft law and decree on integrated pollution control in April 1997:
- 7 -



(iv)   a draft law on toxic chemicals and hazardous wastes in March 1998,
(v)    a draft law and decrees on atmospheric pollution, March 1998.
(vi)   A draft environment code was submitted in June 1998.
(vii)  an inter-ministerial legal audit was carried under the project and finalized February 1998;
(viii)  a study on "branch contracts", December 1998;
The TA work for this component resulted in the expected output and essentially all the work envisaged at
appraisal was carried out. However except for the fact that EIAs are being carried out for major
governmental and private sector projects (see section 4.1) the impact of this component, at the time of
project closure, is limited since the legal texts have yet to be endorsed. The laws on toxic and hazardous
wastes, atmospheric pollution, environmental impact assessment and the environment framework are still in
the preliminary govemment legal review committee (SGG) and have not yet been submitted to the
Government Council for decision, this represents a 3 to 5 year gap (depending on the law) from the project
target. The inter-ministerial review committee never reached agreement on the integrated pollution control
law, which was never even submitted to SGG. The study on branch contracts never led to any such
contracts. Although this sub-component has had no impact yet, since all the legal text work was carried
out and the results may still be forthcoming, output under this component is rated satisfactory.
Economic and Financial Instruments (Lot 2)
The outputs under this component were:
Phase 1:
(i)    Five sector studies (leather, vegetable oil, textiles, sugar, and chemicals) with an evaluation of
polluting discharges were carried out and a report a was submitted in October 1996;
(ii)    Environmental audits were carried out on 11 companies;
(iii)   A study (phase 1) was made on economic incentives and instruments for pollution control were
prepared and a report was issued in January 1997;
(iv)   A report was prepared on socio-economic and sanitary impact, March 1997
Phase 2 (no output. cancelled November 1998):
(i)    Application of economic incentives and instruments for pollution control (cancelled);
(ii)    Application of "branch contracts" (cancelled)
As GOM did not indicate readiness to application of these ambitious tools in the socio-economic context of
the country, phase 2 of this component was cancelled.
- 8 -



Environmental Information System (Lot 3)
The outputs under this component were:
(i)   Inventory of environmental inforrmation in Morocco, May 1999
(ii)    Concept study on the Information System (SIDE), November 1999
(iii)   SIDE operational manual, October 1999
(iv)   Training plan, November 1999
(v)    Training of operators, except for the overseas training, has been done.
(vi)   A concept study for Network of Partner Actors in Environment (RAPIDE) has been prepared.
(v)    A Report on the State of Environment in Morocco (REEM) has been prepared.
After the late recruitment of the consultants, the SIDE was revised within the framework of the PDES. The
conceptual framework, the Partnership Network (RAPIDE), the Report on the State of the Environment in
Morocco (REEM) are completed. However, the equipment, which is procured outside of project funds, is
not yet in place. Hence the consultants have been unable to set up the network.
Environmental Education and Dissemination (Lot 4)
This project component was cancelled in the November 1998 since it was funded outside the project.
4.3 Net Present ValueiEconomic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
While the project strengthened the technical capacity of the SSE, it did not strengthen its administrative
capacity. Project studies and the implementation difficulties encountered through the project clarified the
role of SSE and the project has contributed to the reorganization of SSE with a view of mainstreaming
environment in the sector ministries as well as with the private sector and civil society. SSE is moving
away from attempting to manage all environmental issues to being a catalyst in ensuring that environmental
issues are managed by relevant institutions and the private sector, in compliance with prepared legislation.
SSE now stands ready to host the seventh Conference of Parties on Climate Change (COP 7).
Never-the-less, the legislation and incentives for an effective monitoring of the effects of economic activities
on environment still needs to be legally endorsed.
The project has contributed to elevate the environmental agenda of the government and initiated
communication between environmental units of many ministries.
-9-



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*     Frequent changes of Bank task team leaders lead to substantial discontinuity of dialogue and
uncertainty of purpose; and
*      Lack of timely training on procurement and disbursement procedures to executing agency
personnel contributed to delays.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government commitment to the project is questioned by (a) the CNE lack of effectiveness; (b) insufficient
coordination between participating government agencies; (c) the lack of strong support for the endorsement
of environmental legislation and; (c) the reluctance of Government to use Bank loans for TA.
Governmental budget allocations were insufficient at various stages of project implementation
Governments rigid budget system did not easily accommodate the use of counterpart funds for the project.
Procedural bottlenecks impeded the timely availability of budget allocations to the ministries and limited
their capacity to execute projects efficiently and pay services within reasonable delays. These bottlenecks
led to a delay of some 18 months in project execution. In addition the Government's a priori system of
approving expenditures required excessive time.
The structure of the department responsible for coordination of environment questions within the
Government changed constantly over the course or the project. The Under-secretariat of State within the
Ministry of Interior, at the onset of project implementation, became a full fledged Ministry of Environment
in 1995, a Secretariat of State for Environment within the Ministry of Agriculture Equipment and
Environment in 1997 and finally a Secretariat of State for Environment within the Ministry for Land
Development, Environment, Urbanism and Habitat in 1998 until the present. At each change the new
management reevaluated project activities which took time and caused changes and disruptions in project
implementation.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Contrary to agreements during negotiations, staff in the project implementation unit were not allowed to
devote their full time and attention to the project. In addition staff recruited for project implementation
(about 30) were reported to be new to the task and ill prepared, were not supervised by more experienced
staff and received insufficient training (including in governmental and Bank procedures). These factors
contributed to the delay in the recruitment of the consultants, in the preparation of TORs and bidding
documents, and in the evaluation of the first proposals, which were reported to be ready in January 1995
whereas contracts were signed only in early 1996 (the rigid budget system also contributed). The
incapability of project staff to cope is also evidenced by the Bank suggesting the recruitment of a consultant
to assist with the procurement of Lots 3&4.
Failure of the project implementation unit to involve other concerned departments of SSE in the planning
and execution of project activities resulted in a lukewarm interest at best and an uninspired contribution
when called upon. This no doubt affects the ownership of project output resulting in poor support for its
dissemination and application.
- 10 -



No systematic records were kept on the project. Bank missions repeatedly reported that financial and
physical reporting was inadequate and no progress reports were prepared. As a result it was hard for the
Bank to monitor project progress and take remedial action, and for the ICR mission to collect coherent data
for the evaluation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$10.8 M (DH94.2M), financed through a Bank loan of US$6 M.
Following a confirmation of the cancellation request, sent by the Government on October 1, 1998, the Fez
component was cancelled and the loan amount reduced to $5 million. In addition, as a result of the
November 1998 restructuring mission, the training component of lot 1, the lot 2 phase 2 study on Economic
Instruments, and the Education and Awareness component were cancelled, reducing thereby the loan
amount to $3.5 million. Finally, at the request of the Government, an additional FF5.0 million (US$0.7M)
was cancelled over the course of the April 2000 supervision mission. A total of US$2.02 M had been
disbursed at loan closing whereas compared to project expenditures as recorded by SSE of DH3 1 M should
have resulted in disbursements of somewhat over US$2.5 M (depending on the exchange rate). However
the last scheduled disbursement of project funds did not occur. Late withdrawal requests for expenditures
of about US$ 0.5 M for SIDE consultants services did not reach the Bank before the closing of the
accounts on April 30, 2000.
DISBURSEMENTS (cumulative)
(US$ million equivalent)           FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99  FY00
Appraisal Estimate                 0.18   1.74   3.80   5.04   6.00
Estimate after Restructuring       0      0.60   1.14   1.90   3.46   3.46
Actual                             0      0.60   1.14   1.90   1.96   2.02
Actual as % of Estimate            0      34%   30%   38%   57%   58%
Date offinal disbursement    April 30, 2000



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability r ating:
The limited results achieved are rated as likely sustainable.
The project is rated as unsatisfactory because the delivered outputs did not meet expectations.
Never-the-less some achievements are likely to be sustainable. At project completion, there are good
prospects that the achievements of the development objectives will be maintained. Dialogue continues
between the World Bank and the Government to further strengthen institutional capacity of government
agencies for environmental management. The achievements of the project are not only likely to be
sustained, but form the cornerstones for mainstreaming environment in the sectoral ministries, private
sector and civil society.
Institution Building. The achievements under this component include a strengthening of the SSE and of
elevating the environmental agenda of the Government and this is highly likely to be sustainable,
particularly in the view of what is expected from Morocco's partners e.g. for an association with the EU.
The reorganization of the CNE did not seem to have the full Government support and the reform has not
been sustainable.
Legal Strengthening. The achievements in this area include draft laws prepared under the project, none of
which has yet passed the SGG. The various stakeholders who constitute the Government have different
interests to defend and have not (yet) been able to agree on suitable texts. On the one hand, one might
argue that this legislation is premature and will not be passed in a foreseeable future. A more optimistic
view stems from the experience from other countries in the region which indicates that, on average, it takes
10 years to endorse environmental legislation. The ICR mission adopts this more optimistic conclusion and
rates the achievements under this heading as likely to be sustainable.
Information System. This component was not completed at project closing due to lack of equipment, but
the SEE is continuing work for the equipment set up of the SIDE and funds have been budgeted to that
effect. These expected achievements are likely to be sustainable for reasons similar to the ones identified
under the Institution Building component.
Overall the project has helped Morocco to launch an environmental agenda and start mainstreaming
environmental issues, which momentum can no more stop given its importance and the expectations of
Morocco's economic partners in this respect. Sustainability is therefore likely.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project once completed is not a separate entity but an integral part of Morocco's overall institutional
structure and operated accordingly. Staff recruited under the project are funded from the regular
Government recurrent budget and under the same conditions as other civil servants. Activities, such as the
SIDE, has government funding for its completion.
Performance indicators for the final achievement of project objectives would include:
- 12 -



(a) Passing of legislation:
(i)    on environmental impact assessment;
(b) Progress towards the endorsement of the following legislation:
(i)    on solid waste and toxic chemicals and hazardous wastes;
(ii)   on atmospheric pollution;
(c) Environment Information System (SIDE) operational
(d) Application of economic and financial incentives for pollution control
The passing of the legislation (a), progress towards legislation endorsement (b) and rendering SIDE
operational (c) are indications of a clear SEE's direction and efforts toward improving the environment in
Morocco.
The Bank should continue to support the main objectives of the project and the achievements of project
outputs. It was voiced among the ICR mission's bilateral interlocutors that the Bank was best placed to
push legislative reforms and proponents for environmental reforms in Morocco look to the Bank for
support and leadership in breaking the resistance of special interests. This could be done in the context of
the overall Bank program discussions (Comprehensive Development Framework [CDF]) as well as in the
context of specific projects. The Bank has environmental requirements in all its relations with Borrowers
and follow-up on the EMP should be part of its dialogue with Morocco. Failure to do so would show lack
of the clear direction and purpose expected in Bank assistance. If an impact evaluation of the project is
planned by OED, 2005 would appear to give sufficient time to pass the legislative EIA and solid waste
package and start to see its impact on economic activities in Morocco.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending.
Bank performance at project identification was satisfactory and took into account the Govemment's new
emphasis on protecting the environment although the necessary institutions, legislation and know-how to
launch a program were lacking. Also environmental and water resource management was one of the key
pillars in the Bank's assistance strategy for Morocco (CAS). Bank performance in project preparation
and appraisal was unsatisfactory contributing to making the project unsatisfactory at entry (section 3.5)
and leading to delays and other difficulties during execution, explained above. While the staff mix and
continuity at preparation and appraisal were adequate, design issues and the materialization of risks
hampered project implementation. The content of the project was too ambitious and complex, a problem
which had already been raised at the IEPS Meeting and at the Yellow Cover Review Meeting where the
team was asked to be realistic in setting project indicators and targets. At the same time, safeguards
proposed by the preparation teamn (such as early preparation of bidding documents) were removed by
formal review meetings. Components had to be redefined during implementation in order to obtain suitable
and sequential consultant packages, and finally large parts were cancelled. Not enough account was taken
of the executing agency's capacity to implement the project, including its unfamiliarity with governmental
and Bank procedures and inexperience in the financial management of projects. Moroccan partners
- 13 -



commented that not sufficient attention had been given to take the socio-economic Moroccan situation into
account, demonstrated by stalled legislation. Similarly, a Bank staff expressed that the design of the
project did not account for the institutional situation of Morocco, and proposed too many studies with
several ministries without specifying the operational outputs and coordination mechanism.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall supervision was unsatisfactory although there was improvement in 1998 when the project was
finally restructured. Frequent changes of task managers (there were five) led to lack of continuity in
approach and in the dialogue with the Moroccan partners, reducing the effectiveness of Bank interventions.
Issues raised as requiring the attention of the following supervision were often not mentioned in the next
report. Project reporting would have benefited from a more consistent structure and continuity. A
Moroccan project staff expressed that Bank supervisions were more of the "inspector" type, often hasty, of
an administrative nature and did not contribute technically to good implementation of the project. For
example, assistance by supervision missions in finalizing bid documents would have helped. Training in
Bank procurement procedures was discussed, but there is no record of its implementation. Only at the end
was there an improvement and the project was restructured as a consequence. Yet it is the technical
assistance part of Bank cooperation that is mostly appreciated by the implementing agencies, rather than
the Bank's financial contribution.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall performance by the Bank was unsatisfactory, during both preparation and implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance at identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project was unsatisfactory.
While the Borrower took on an active role in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project,
although new to such project the borrower shares the responsibility for the unsatisfactory project at entry.
7.5 Government implementationperformance:
Borrower implementation perfornance was unsatisfactory. The Borrower shares responsibility for the
projects poor implementation performance. Failure to resolve the problem of project funding with multiple
project agencies caused serious delays in implementation and contributed to the failure to complete the
project. Although the Government reformed the CNE it resulted in its ineffective functioning. The
inter-agency steering committee's failure to resolve project problems in a timely manner added to project
delays. Legislation prepared under the project has not yet been passed, this postpones the impact of the
project on environment. Lack of ministerial consensus in implementing EMP project, and reluctance to
borrow for technical assistance are some of the reasons for the limited success of EMP.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is unsatisfactory. Staff in the project implementation unit
were, contrary to agreements, given other tasks thereby contributing to delays in project implementation.
Financial and quality monitoring of the project was poor. No progress reports were sent to the Bank over
the course of the project. Because all concerned departments in SSE were not sufficiently involved in the
planning of project activities, the project suffered from their lack of interest. Although there was substantial
progress in the implementation of project tasks in the last year of the project, administrative problems
- 14 -



identified earlier continued to persist until project completion. This negatively affected project completion
and disbursements.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall performance the borrower was unsatisfactory for reasons explained above.
- 15-



8. Lessons Learned
(i)    The Bank does not have a high comparative advantage in funding technical assistance projects
which are not seen as competitive or bankable. In addition, environmental capacity building in
particular, and institutional projects in general, are better carried out by aid agencies with staff in
the field and grants available for environmental pilot activities. Where institutional development
projects for new agencies are undertaken by the Bank, close supervision is necessary, preferably by
resident staff where possible. The Bank advisory role in institutional type projects is seen as more
important than the loan itself. Political will is essential for project success, as is coordination of
donors and government agencies for instance through the CDF.
(ii)    A project monitoring system and reports (financial and technical) should be agreed during project
preparation and reflected in the legal documents permitting their enforcement.
(iii)   The planning and verification of the flow of funds from the budget to final payments is critical at
project preparation.
(iv)   Design for environmental management projects should take more into account the socio-economic
context of the country and should focus on attainable activities. Alternatively top management
should ensure that set environmental goals are met at the highest level.
(v)    At the project implementation stage, opportunity should be taken at the onset during supervisions
to redirect course of action in order to reflect evolution of events and other donor interventions.
(vi)   The legislation prepared under projects is seldom enacted during the typical five year
implementation period. Following the project closure, the Bank should continue manifesting the
importance it attaches to reaching the final targets on which the impact of the project depends. The
Bank should find means to continue support for the adoption of such legislation.
(vii)   As it has proved particularly difficult when the counterpart is a new inexperienced agency, with
limited capacity and technical know-how, to fully implicate the borrower, means must be found to
ensure better ownership of the project in such cases.
(viii)  Although participation of cross-sectoral institutions in the project is essential for its success, it is
not sufficient. Ownership must be ensured from all participating institutions. The borrower
should propose cross-sectoral coordination mechanisms during project preparation, which could
be tested at the onset of implementation.
(ix)    Within the Bank side, the project was managed by five task team leaders. The implementing
agency was headed by four different ministries during the course of the project. Such frequent
changes within the Bank and the implementing agency lead to lack of continuity and purpose in the
dialogue and cause disruption and delays in project execution. The Bank should encourage more
continuity in its project teams.
- 16 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Le present rapport elabore par le Secretariat d'Etat charge de 1'environnement est un rapport
de fin de projet. II fait suite a une serie de 9 missions de concertation et de suivi de la Banque mondiale,
et d'un rapport d'evaluation a mi-parcours. Le contenu du rapport sera axe sur une analyse qualitative,
plut6t que quantitative suivant le modele propose par la Banque mondiale. Ce rapport sera egalement
annexe au rapport d'evaluation de la Banque mondiale en son examen par le Conseil d'Administration
de cette demiere.
- Objectif du projet
Le projet de Gestion de l'Environnement (PGE) est un projet financ6 par un pr8t initial de la
Banque mondiale de 6 millions de dollars, ayant pour objectif d'assister l'autorite nationale chargee de
la protection de l'environnement en matiere de renforcement de ses capacites institutionnelles,
juridiques, techniques et communicationnels.
- Duree du projet
Approuv6 par le Conseil de la Banque mondiale en septembre 1994, I'accord de pret du projet a
e  signe en mai 1994 et le demarrage effectif des ses activites en f6vrier 1996. La date de cl6ture
initialement prevue pour le 31 decembre 1998 a et reportee au 31 decembre 2000.
- Conception du projet (formulation et preparation)
En tant que projet integre, le PGE etait concu selon:
Une structuration sectorielle impliquant dans la gestion et le suivi des activites un noyau dur, form6 en
plus du departement charge de l'environnement, de deux autres departements ministeriels a savoir, le
departement charge de l'equipement et celui charge de l'Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et des
Peches Maritimes.
Une structuration thematique traitant respectivement des aspects institutionnels et juridiques (lot I d'
une duree de 24 mois), des aspects technico-financiers, en relation avec les instruments economiques et
financiers (lot 2 d'une duree de 18 mois), des aspects communicationnels en relation avec le
developpement d'un reseau d'echange d'information et de donnees environnementales (lot 3 d'une dur6e
de 15) et egalement des aspects lies i la promotion et i la diffusion de l'information, en rapport avec la
sensibilisation (lot 4 d'une dur6e estimee de 6 i 8 mois).
Cette structuration thematique suivait une logique de realisation qui faisait que le lot I et le lot 2
devaient permettre des echanges mutuelles de produits et necessitaient une parfaite synchronisation et
coordination des activites (plan d'action des audits industrielles a finaliser sous forme de contrat de
branche a titre d'exemple). Une fois l'assise institutionnelle, juridique et technico-financiere elaboree, la
circulation et le partage de l'information devaient etre facilites via la constitution d'un Reseau d'Acteur
Partenaires en Information et Donnees sur l'Environnement (lot 3). Par la suite viendrait la phase de
dissemination de l'information et de sensibilisation en vue de capitaliser les resultats auquel le projet
- 17 -



aurait abouti, objet du demier lot, le lot 4 du PGE.
Egalement, afin d'orienter le projet vers la realisation d'actions concretes sur le terrain, le bassin du
Sebou, bassin le plus pollue au niveau national a ete choisi comme zone pilote. Par ailleurs, la wilaya de
Fes a e  identifiee en tant que cible de decentralisation des activites du projet, sachant que le
departement de l'environnement, lors du demarrage du projet etait Sous-Secretariat d'Etat charge de I'
Environnement aupres du Ministere de l'Interieur.
Resultats attendus
Les principaux resultats attendus du projet peuvent etre r6sumes comme suit:
Renforcement des capacites techniques, administratives et de coordination en matiere de gestion de F'
environnement du Departement de l'environnement et des ministeres de l'Agriculture, de l'Equipement
et de la Wilaya de Fes;
Renforcement du cadre legislatif et reglementaire du departement de l'environnement dans le domaine
de l'Etude d'Impact sur l'Environnement (EIE), la gestion des dechets dangereux, le projet de loi sur la
gestion integr6e de la pollution, l'elaboration et le test de deux contrats de branche A titre demonstratif;
Mise en place d'un Systeme d'Information et de Donnees sur l'Environnement (SIDE) au niveau central
et sa decentralisation au niveau de la Wilaya de Fes; et
Elaboration d'un programme de sensibilisation.
Execution du projet
L'execution du projet a ete assuree par le departement de l'environnement en tant qu'agence d'
execution, associ6e aux departements de l'Agriculture et de l'Equipement. Un comit6 interninisteriel de
suivi et egalement charge du suivi des activites du projet.
L'accord de pret a et signe le 20 mai 1994. Les activites du projet ont effectivement demarre en fevrier
1996. Le projet a ete cloture le 31 decembre 2000.
Le lotl relatif aux etudes et A l'assistance technique pour le renforcement du cadre juridique et
institutionnel en matiere de protection de l'environnement a demarre, en f6vrier 1996 et s'est acheve en
mai 1999. La sous composante formation, avenant du lot 1, d'une duree de 10 mois n'a pu 8tre
realisee. Ce lot a ete realise par le Bureau d'etudes suisse Urbaplan.
Le lot 2 relatif aux etudes et A l'assistance technique pour la mise en place des instruments economiques
et financiers pour le contr6le et la reduction de la pollution a demarre en fevrier 1996 et s'est acheve en
avril 1997. La sous composante 2eme phase du lot 2, avenant d'une duree de 8 mois n'a pu etre
realisee. Ce lot a ete execute par le Bureau d'etudes fran,ais BCEOM en tant que bureau chef de file,
en collaboration avec les bureaux d'etudes, hollandais DNV et marocains CID et EAU Globe.
Le lot 3 du PGE relatif a la mise en place d'un Systeme d'Information et Donnees sur l'Environnement
(SIDE) a d6marre en mai 1998 et achev6 en Decembre 1999. Le Bureau d'etudes americain Ecology
and Environment a ete charg6 de la realisation du projet.
-18 -



Le lot 4 relatif A la sensibilisation et A l'education en matiere d'environnement, d'une duree estimee A 8
mois, a ete annulee.
- Restructuration du projet:
En rapport avec les objectifs initiaux du projet, nous rappelons que le projet a connu deux
restructurations.
La premiere restructuration a fait suite A la 7eme mission de la Banque mondiale (I au 7 fevrier
1998 ). En effet, considerant d'une part la surevaluation des previsions initiales des aleas financiers et
physiques ($US 831 300) et les prix des dquipements infornatiques en perpetuel decroissance et d'autre
part les delais restants pour 1'execution du projet (date de cl6ture officielle du projet en decembre 1998),
la partie marocaine, en accord avec la mission de la Banque mondiale, a demande la restructuration du
projet par:
- I'annulation de I million de dollars US;
- I'elimination de la composante wilaya de Fs ; et
- le report de la date de cloture du pret au 31 decembre 1999 soit une prorogation de 12 mois.
La seconde restructuration du projet a fait suite A la 8eme mission de la Banque mondiale (8 au 20
novembre 1998) en prenant en consideration l'evolution de la situation connu par le projet et en
particulier le re-ciblage de ses objectifs dans le cadre du Plan de Developpement Economique et Social
du Pays (PDES). Cette restructuration a permis l'annulation de 1,5 millions de dollars US soit P'
annulation des composantes non encore engagees a savoir les avenants cites plus haut du lot I et lot2
ainsi que la composante lot 4 du projet. Le montant du pret est alors de 3,5 millions de dollars US.
- Evaluation de la perfornance de l'emprunteur durant l'evolution et l'execution du projet
Contexte:
Avant d'evaluer la performance de l'agence d'execution durant 1'6volution du projet, il est important de
situer le contexte dans lequel le projet a evolue.
Genese du projet: I'idee de projet a debute, selon notre information en 1992, dans un contexte
ou les projets en rapport avec la protection de l'environnement etaient rares.
Nature du projet: le projet de gestion de l'environnement etait concu, comme signale plus haut,
en tant que projet integre impliquant au moins trois secteurs d'activites (trois departements) et
intervenant sur plusieurs themes (du lot I au lot 4).
Contexte institutionnel : Ce demier a connu une evolution institutionnelle qui a fait que la
gestion du projet a et assuree respectivement par le Sous-Secretariat d'Etat charge de rEnvironnement
aupres du Ministere de l'Interieur (de 199 3 a 1995), par le Ministere de l'Environnement (de 1995 a
1997), par le Secretariat d'Etat charge de l'Environnement aupres du Ministere de rAgricuture, de
l'Equipement et de I'Environnement (de 1997 a 1998) et finalement par le Secretariat d'Etat charge de
I'Environnement aupres du Ministere de l'Amenagement du Territoire de l'Environnement, de l'Habitat et
de l'Urbanisme de 1998 a cejour).
Le suivi du projet a ete assure au sein du departement par un Directeur de projet assiste par une
cellule d'execution. Au niveau exteme un comite interministeriel assurait le suivi du projet.
- 19 -



- Evaluation de la performance:
Tableau N 1: Indicateurs de suivi du projet
Action achevee
Action prioritaire         Date butoir          Responsabilite           avec date /ou etat
d'avancement et
remarque
Directives Iprocedures                                                  Proposition d'organisation
operationnelles de                                                      institutionnelle finalisee et
cooperation entre              Avril 1998                SEE            proposee par le consultant
ME/Agences et                                                           en Octobre 1998
Departements/ONGs
Projet de loi relatif a 1'                                              Soumise au SGG le 18
etude d'impact sur 1'                                    SEE            fevrier 1997
environnement au SGG
Projet de loi sur la gestion                                            Rapport sur les produits
des dechets dangereux au     Decembre 1997               SEE            chimiques et dechets
SGG                                                                     dangereux finalise par le
consultant en mars 1998
Projet de loi sur le                                                    projet finalise par le
contrdle des dechets         Decembre 1997               SEE            consultant en avril 1997
dangereux au SGG
Rapport sur les contrats de
Deux contrats de branches    Decembre 1997               SEE            branche finalise par le
testes a titre demonstratif                                             consultant en decembre
1998
Contrat du consultant arrive
Systeme d'information sur       Juin 1998          SEE t Equipement /    A terme en decembre 1999.
I'environnement                                       Agriculture       Les bases d'un systeme ont
ete identifies
Programme de                                                            composante annulie
sensibilisation                 Juin 1998                SEE            suite A la seconde
restructuration du projet
L'evaluation de la performance du projet sera declinee en points forts et points faibles.
Points forts:
- projet precurseur qui a et parmi les premiers A traiter la problematique environnementaleau Maroc
- 20 -



- projet integre, impliquant trois departements et quatre thematiques environnementales
- projet A caractere strategique qui a identifie les perspectives de developpement du secteur, mais
egalement ses limites.
Points faibles:
- projet dont la conception n'aurait pas ete elaboree localement, n'exprimant donc pas un besoin urgent
A combler.
- projet qui a ete supplante par d'autres projets moins ambitieux et aux objectifs specifiques similaires.
- projet d'une duree importante (6 ans).
- projet difficilement maitrisable en raison de l'inter-activite entre ses differentes composantes.
-projet devant repondre A deux procedures differentes de passation et de suivi des marches (nationale et
celle de la Banque).
Conclusion
C'est un projet qui presente des apports en termes de strategie de planification environnementale mais
qui presente egalement plusieurs limites qui ont fait que la plupart des indicateurs de performnance ne
pouvaient etre atteints.
- Evaluation de la performance de la Banque mondiale durant l'evolution et l'execution
du projet
Points forts:
-conception d'un projet doublement integre (sectoriel et thematique)
- missions de suivi et concertation regulieres (9 au total)
Points faibles:
- conception du projet inadaptee au contexte national
- changement frequent des charges de projet. Ce dernier a connu 5 charges de projet
- manque de compilmentarite de ce projet avec d'autres projets de la banque pour la
capitalisation de l'inforrnation et de
l'expertise (exemple deja signale A la Banque concemant le PGE et le Projet de
Protection de Sebou)
- manque de coordination au benefice du departement de l'environnement des autres projets A caractere
environnemental
engages par la Banque au niveau national (voir chapitre correspondant du rapport A mi-parcours)
- Sous utilisation des potentialites de la delegation de la Banque A Rabat au profit du secteur de 1'
Environnement.
Conclusion
La conception du projet a ete faite par la Banque mondiale d'une maniere surdimensionnee par rapport
A un nouveau departement ministeriel charge de l'environnement. Afin de renforcer les capacites du
departement en matiere de gestion, la composante formation aurait par exemple pu etre initiee depuis le
debut du projet.
Par ailleurs, les outils de suivi et de soutien que ce soit au niveau de la banque (changement frequent des
charges de projet) ou au Maroc (delegation deconcentree de la banque A Rabat, tout au moins depuis
- 21 -



son avnement) n'a pas permis un soutien rgulier et constant de cet ambitieux projet.
Conclusion gnrale
En conclusion, ii ressort que le projet de gestion de 1'environnement tel que conu par Ia Banque
mondiale tait un projet intgr ambitieux (thmatique et interministriei). Les moyens de soutien et d'
accompagnement du projet n'ont galement pas  tons mis  disposition pour assurer 1'optimum requis
de chance de russite du projet.
- 22 -



LISTE ET RESULTATS DES ETUDES DU PGE
Projet de Gestion de                     Produits              Date de            Observation
I'Environnement                                                remise
Synthese                          Mars 99
Organisation institutionnelle:    Mars 99
Diagnostic
Organisation institutionnelle:    Mars 99
proposition
Renforcement du Conseil National de   Mars 99
I'Environnement (CNE)
Composante liee A la
proposition des
instruments financiers,
A I'elaboration du FNE
Instruments financiers            Mars 99       et A la participation du
secteur prive du lot 2 du
PGE qui n'a pas ete
realis6e
Lot 1: Composante                                                            Composante liee a 1'
renforcement juridique et                                                    elaboration des contrats
institutionnelle             Contrats de branche               Dec. 98       de branches du lot 2 du
Attribue au Bureau d'Etudes                                                  PGE qui n'a pas e
URBAPLAN                                                                     realisde
Permet l'elaboration d'
une legislation visant
une gestion integree de
la pollution
Projet de loi sur la prbvention et la           difficilement realisable
reduction int6gr6e de la pollution  Mars 99     dans le contexte actuel
Projet de decrets relatifs a la lutte          Base sur le
contre la pollution atmospherique  Mars 99      commentaire du projet
de loi et de decret
existants elabores par le
departement
- 23 -



Produits chimiques toxiques et
dechets dangereux                 Mars 99
Code de I'Environnement:
- Livre 1: Principes generaux et  Dec 98
competences institutionnelles
- Livre 2: Titre 1: les milieux
physiques                         Dec 98
Eau et milieux aquatiques
Dec 98       Produit important du
- Livre 2: Titre 2: les milieux                 Lot 1 du PGE
Lot 1: Composante            physiques                          Dec 98
renforcement juridique et    Eaux maritimes et littoral
institutionnelle             - Livre 2: Titres 3+4: les milieux
physiques                         Dec 98
Air et Atmosphere, sol et sous-sol,
mines et carrinres
- Livre 3: Pollutions et nuisances
- Livre 4: Protection de la Nature et
Patrimoine
- Livre 5 et 6: Etablissements
humains, instruments d'6valuation,
de protection et de gestion de 1'
environnement
Permet une analyse
rapide de l'arsenal
Version CD ROM du code de 1'                   juridique national en
environnement                                   matiere d'
environnement
Lot 2 Composante mise en
place des instruments
economiques et financiers    Rapport sur les audits industriels et            5 secteurs dtactivit6 ont
evaluation des charges polluantes  Octobre      ete etudies (tannerie,
attribue A un Groupement de                                     1996          huilerie, textile, sucrerie
Bureaux d'Etudes, dont                                                        et chimie)
BCEOM est chef de file
-24-



Rapport sur les instruments      Janvier       Premier diagnostic
economiques et financiers         1997
Lot 2: Composante mise en    Rapport sur I'ivaluation de I'impact
place des instruments       socio-economique et sanitaire     Fevrier
economiques et financiers                                      1997
Rapports de synthese             Mars 1997
Rapport d'execution
(Mission A)
Rapport de I'Etat des lieux des
Donnees environnementales
(mission B)
Rapport sur la Conception du SIDE
(mission B)
Pr6paration du cahier des charges
(mission C)
Pr6sentation d'un
canevas du rapport
Rapport sur 1'Etat des lieux des  Juillet 1999   REEM incluant le
donnees sur 1'environnement                    resultat de l'inventaire
des donnees
Lot 3: Composante Systeme                                                   Pr6sentation du modele
d'Information et Donnees sur                                                conceptuel de donnees,
I'Environnement (SIDE)                                                      d'un plan de
composante attribuee au                                                     communication et d'un
bureau d'etude E&E           SIDE, etude et conception        Aouit 1999    plan d'organisation
(version preliminaire)                         pour la mise en auvre
du SIDE
Etude et conception du SIDE      Novembre    Conception revue du
(version finale)                  1999         SIDE avec definition
des produits a 6laborer
Presentation du
programme de
Rapport de formation             Novembre    formation avec
1999         evaluation de l'6quipe
-25 -



Rapport sur l'Etat de i'Environnemnt             rapport adoptant le
au Maroc (REEM)                    Decembre       principe
1999         Pression-Etat-Reponse
Lot 3: Composante Systime                                                        Presentation de la
d'Information et Donnees sur                                                     conception du RAPIDE,
I'Environnement (SIDE)                                                           des procedures
composante attribuee au                                                          potentielle de
bureau d'etude E&E                                                               fonctionnement avec
Conception et mise en place du     Decemnbre    identification des
RAPIDE                              1999          donnees essentielles a
echanger. Presentation
egalement d'un plan de
surveillance
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
-26 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:                ..
IndicatorlMatrix                            inProjctd h last PSR .       ActuaULatdst Edimab-
(a) industrial audits carried out     December 1996                         December 1996
(b) formulation of operational directives and  June 1998                    June 1998
procedures for the cooperation between the
Ministry of Environment and other
governmental departments and NGOs.
(c) submission of a draft decree on the  February 1997                      February 1997, submitted to SGG
procedures of environmental impact
assessment to the Government Council.
(d) submission of a draft law on hazardous   February 1998                   February 1998, submitted to SGG
wastes and toxic chemicals to the
Govemrnment Council.
(e) submission of a draft law on integrated    December 1997                December 1997, submitted to SGG
pollution control and polluting acivities to the
Govemment Council.
Output Indicators:
-lndlca i x              -         -   . : dn lstPSR at. a X.  -A nmat .
N/A
End of project
-27-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisat      ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Esitimate        EsiaeApprsa
ProlecttCCOsft yCompr nent                US$ miion         US$ million
Lot 1: Institutional Strengthening                          1.91              1.09              51
Legal Strengthening                                    0.88             0.60              61
Lot 2: Compliance system                                    0.86              0.75              77
Lot 3: Environmental Information System                     1.86              0.85              39
Lot 4: Education and Awareness                              0.78              0.00               0
Recurrent Costs                                             3.43
Total Baseline Cost                                         9.72              3.29
Physical Contingencies                                     0.32
Price Contingencies                                        0.79
Total Project Costs                  10.83              3.29
Total Financing Required                   10.83              3.29
Pro3ect Costs by Procuremnt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
r  ................~N~B                                     N .B....     Tt0 i;;:NB.  0X jal Cos
1. Works                                                     h0.00
(0.00)
2. Goods                        0.26                         1.08                         1.34
._____________________  (0.21)      (           (0.88)           0           (1.09)
3. Services                                                 5.54                          5.54
___________________        ()          .       ()(4.91)                0           (4.91)
4. Miscellaneous                                                           3.95           3.95
(1_____________________  0  () 0(0.00)                  (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                          0.00
()   ()       ()             ()         ~~~~~~~~~~~(0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                          0.00
()   ()      ()            ()           (0.00)
Total                        0.26          0.00           6.62          3.95          10.83
(0.21)        (0.00)        (5.79)         (0.00)         (6.00)
- 28 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.   .  -  .                 -. ~~Procurbm n-Motliosl .            :-               -     -
Expenditure Category           ICB         P Cm           Metho 2           N.B.F.        Total Cost
NB            Other
1. Works                                                                                          0.00
()       O..j........          ()..            ()            (0.00)
2. Goods                                          0.14                                            0.14
()       ~~~(0.1I 1)        O              (             (0.1I1)
3. Services                                                       3.15                            3.15
o _  ()  _      ()      _   (1.91)             (             (1.91)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                                  0.00
o)              o          .                   0 ,,,,.  O    (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                                  0.00
o)              O..   ()                       ().           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                                  0.00
0 _   ()__ _   ()_          _ O              (0.00)
Total                          0.00            0.14            3.15           0.00             3.29
(0.00)          (0.1 1)        (1.91)          (0.00)          (2.02)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2I Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Apprasal stiteC   -  :            alI1 t.s'                  6-
Bank: |  Govt.       CoF.       fl-    k -    v |  G :    f Fk Nlt .   CdE
Lot 1: Institutional and   2.69       0.40                  1.66       0.53               61.7   132.5   0.0
legal strengthening
0.0    0.0    0.0
Lot 2: Compliance system   0.82       0.15                 0.63        0.12               76.8   80.0    0.0
Lot 3: Environmental       1.69       0.48                 0.23        0.62                13.6   129.2   0.0
Information System
Lot 4: Education and       0.80       0.09                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0
Awareness
Recurrent costs                       3.71                                                 0.0    0.0    0.0
- 29 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation
11/91                         4   3 Env. Spec., I Econ.
10/92                        1    1 Env. Spec.
9/93                         1   1 Env. Spec.
2/93                        5      2 Env. Spec., I Econ.
I Env. Law Spec., 1 Cons.
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/93                          4   2 Env. Spec., I Econ., I
Cons.
2/94                          1   1 Env. Spec.
Supervision
(1) 4/94                      3  2 Env. Spec., I Econ., I              S                HS
Env. Spec., I Econ.
(2) 11/94                     3   1 Env. Spec., I Econ., I             S                HS
Resource Mob. Spec.
(3) 7/95                      3   1 Env. Spec., I Econ., 1             U                 S
Resource Mob. Spec.
(4) 11/95                      1  1 Env. Spec.                         U                 S
(5) 4/96                      3   1 Env. Spec., I Resource Mob.        U                 U
Spec., I Env. Law Spec.
(6) 11/96                     2   1 Env. Spec., I Resource Mob.        S                 S
Spec.
MTR 6/97                      3   1 Env. Spec., I Resource Mob.        S                 S
Spec., I Env. Law Spec.
(7) 10/97                      1  Nat. Resource Economist              U                 S
(8) 2/98                      2   1 Nat. Res. Economist,               U                 S
I Env. Law Spec.
(9) 11/98                      1  1 Env. Spec.                         U                 S
(10) 5/99                     2   1 Env. Spec., I Fin. Analyst         U                 S
(11) 12/99                    2   1 Env. Spec., I Consultant           U                 S
ICR
6/2000                        2   1 Env. Spec., I Consultant
- 31 -



(b) Staff:
I    Stage of Project Cycle                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ (X000)
Identification/Preparation               54.8                         64.4
Appraisal/Negotiation                     16.9                        176
Supervision                              95.3                         357
ICR                                       8.0                        27.0
Total                                     175                        624.4
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
JSector Policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
| Physical                                OH  OSUOM   O N  * NA
? Financial                               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
2 Institutional Development               0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
FPoverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
8Gender                            OH OSUOM O N * NA
iZOther (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  ON  * NA
Z Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  * NA
E Public sector management                0 H  O SU *M  0 N  0 NA
E Other (Please specify)
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
? Lending                                            OHS OS   *U  OHU
f Supervision                                        OHS OS  *U  OHU
N Overall                                            OHS OS *U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
f Preparation                                        OHS OS   * U  O HU
  Government implementation performance             O HS O S   0 U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS  *  U  O HU
F Overall                                            OHS OS   * U  O HU
-34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
The ICR is based on the documents in the project file and the relevant sector work.
- 35 -



