                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000741




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-7066)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$15.15 MILLION


                                 TO BARBADOS

                                      FOR A

        BARBADOS HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT




                                   June 27, 2008




Human Development Sector Management Unit
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                              ii


                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective June 2001)

                          Currency Unit = Barbadian Dollar (BBD)
                                       BBD$0.50 = US$ 1
                                    US$ 1.00 = BBD$1.99

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 ­ December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS        Acquired Immune Deficiency          LAN       Local Area Networks
            Syndrome
APL         Adaptable Program Lending           MNHI      Ministry of Health, National Insurance
                                                          and Social Security
ART         Anti-retroviral therapy             MSM       Men who have Sex with Men
ARV         Anti-retroviral drugs               MTCT      Mother to Child Transmission
AZT         Azido-deoxy thymidine               NHAC      National HIV/AIDS Commission
BDS         Barbados Drug Service               NCB       National Competitive Bidding
CAREC       Caribbean Epidemiology Center       NGOs      Non-Governmental Organizations
CARICOM     Caribbean Community and Common      OPM       Office of the Prime Minister
            Market
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy         PAHO      Pan American Health Organization
CBO         Community-Based Organization        PCU       Project Coordination Unit
CCHI        Caribbean Cooperation in Health     PCD       Project Concept Document
            Initiatives
CDC         Centers for Disease Control         PLHIV     People Living with HIV
CDRC        Chronic Disease Research Center     PMR       Project Management Report
CGCED       Caribbean Group for Cooperation in  QEH       Queen Elizabeth Hospital
            Economic Development
CHA         Caribbean Hotel Association         RPA       Regional Procurement Advisor
CRM+        Caribbean Network of People Living  SA        Special Account
            with HIV/AIDS
CSO         Civil Society Organizations         SOE       Statement of Expenditures
CSW         Commercial Sex Worker               STI       Sexually Transmitted Infections
GDP         Gross Domestic Product              UNAIDS    Joint United Nations Program on
                                                          HIV/AIDS
GOB         Government of Barbados              UNDCP     United Nations Drug Control Program
HAART       Highly Active Anti-retroviral       UNDP      United Nations Development Program
            Therapy
HASSUS      Health and Social Services          UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific
            Utilization Study                             and Cultural Organization
HIV         Human Immunedeficiency Virus        UWI       University of the West Indies
ICB         International Competitive Bidding   WB        The World Bank
IEC         Information, Education and          VCT       Voluntary Counseling and Testing
            Communication
KAP         Knowledge, Attitude and Practices   WHO       World Health Organization

        Vice President: Pamela Cox
      Country Director: Yvonne Tsikata
       Sector Manager: Keith Hansen
   Project Team Leader: Joana Godinho
     ICR Team Leader: Joana Godinho

                                                          iii


                                                BARBADOS
             HIV/AIDS PREVENTION AND CONTROL PROJECT




                                                CONTENTS
DATA SHEET
 A. Basic Information .....................................................................................1
 B. Key Dates................................................................................................................... 1
 C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... 1
 D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... 2
 E. Bank Staff................................................................................................................... 2
 F. Results Framework Analysis...................................................................................... 3
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... 6
 H. Restructuring (if any): N/A........................................................................................ 6
 I. Disbursement Graph .................................................................................................. 7
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 8
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 12
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 18
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 30
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 31
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 33
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 35
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 36
 Annex 2. Outputs by PDO and by Component............................................................. 37
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 43
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 44
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 45
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 47
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 48
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 50

                                             1



A. Basic Information

                                                                     Caribbean HIV/AIDS I
Country:                Barbados              Project Name:
                                                                     - Barbados
Project ID:             P075220               L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-7066
ICR Date:               12/15/2008            ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                     Government of
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:
                                                                     Barbados
Original Total
                        USD 15.15M            Disbursed Amount:      USD 15.15M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: National HIV/AIDS Commission
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: NA


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/15/2000    Effectiveness:         12/20/2001        12/20/2001
Appraisal:             04/23/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/28/2001    Mid-term Review:                         11/03/2003
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Negligible to Low
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory

                                            2



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators         (if any)                 Rating

Potential Problem Project                   Quality at Entry
                          No                                      NA
at any time (Yes/No):                       (QEA):
Problem Project at any                      Quality of
                          No                                      Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                              Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                           Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central Government Administration                             5
Health                                                       95


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Child health                                               Secondary
Gender                                                     Secondary
HIV/AIDS                                                    Primary
Health system performance                                  Secondary
Participation and civic engagement                         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                    At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:         Yvonne Tsikata                 Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:           Keith Hansen                   Xavier Coll, Director
Project Team Leader:      Joana Godinho                  Patricio Marquez
ICR Team Leader:          Joana Godinho
ICR Primary Author:       Marcelo Castrillo

                                               3



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The proposed HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project would assist the Government of
Barbados to: (i) Reduce the rate of new HIV reported cases; (ii) Increase the life
expectancy of persons living with HIV (PLHIV); (iii) Improve quality of life for PLHIV;
and   (iv) Build sustainable institutional arrangements for managing the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority): NA

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                          Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

  Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                              approval          Target         Completion or
                                             documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1   Percentage of adults with HIV still alive 12 months after initiation of therapy
Value         93.0                       95                                  97

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments      Target achieved. Case management was highly satisfactory.

Indicator 2   Percentage of men and women with advanced HIV infection receiving ARV in
              the last 12 months.
Value         12.4%                      80%                                 84.9%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments      Target achieved. Case management was highly satisfactory.

Indicator 3   Percentage of HIV-positive pregnant women receiving a complete course of
              antiretroviral prophylaxis to reduce the risk of mother-to-child transmission.
Value         76%                        95%                                 96%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments      Target achieved. Case management was highly satisfactory.

Indicator 4   Percentage of infants born to HIV infected mothers who are infected.
Value         5.5%                       <10%                                2.6%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                 12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments      Target achieved. Case management was highly satisfactory.

                                                4



Indicator 5    Median age at first sex among young men and women.

Value          Males 15 years             12-18 months                        Males 15 years
               Females 16 years           increase in age at
                                          first sex                           Females 16 years

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                          12/31/2007

Comments       Target not achieved, and no change was observed over the life of the project.
               This is a controversial indicator as it rarely changes, and when it does, this does
               not necessarily mean the adoption of safe sexual practices.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

               Percentage of young men and women aged 15 to 24 who both correctly identify
Indicator 6    ways of preventing the sexual transmission of HIV and who reject major
               misconceptions about HIV transmission.
Value          0.1%                       10%                                 1%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments       Target not achieved. However, evidence from 2001, 2003 and 2005 KAP surveys
               indicate that knowledge about HIV and AIDS increased among youth.
               Percentage of young men and women aged 15 to 24 reporting the use of a
Indicator 7    condom the last time they had sex with a non-marital, non-cohabitating sexual
               partner.

Value          Males 35.3%                Males 85%                           Males 26.6%
               Females 32.6%              Females 85%                         Females 15.9%
               Both 34.5%                 Both 85%                            Both 21.6%
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                          12/31/2005
Comments       Target not achieved. However, condom use with clients among sex workers is
               reported to be 80%.

Indicator 8    Number of persons receiving post-test counseling and results.

Value          >20, 000                   >20,000                             24, 509

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments


Indicator 9    Percentage of schools with teachers who have been trained in life-skills-based
               HIV education and who taught it during the last academic year
Value          NA                                                             40.8%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/31/2006                          12/31/2007
Comments

                                            5




             Percentage of population expressing accepting attitudes towards PLHIV as
             measured by:
             % saying that they would be willing to care for a family member who became
Indicator 10 sick with the AIDS virus;
             % saying that they would buy food from a PLWHA/eating in a restaurant;
             % saying that a teacher/child who is HIV+ should be allowed to continue to
             teach/attend school.

             Care for Family 71%       Care for Family                    Care for Family

Value        Buy food 18%              95%                                90%

             Teachers allowed to teach Buy food 40%                       Buy food 31%

             54%                       Teachers allowed                   Teachers allowed to
                                       to teach 90%                       teach 86%
Date achieved 12/31/2002               12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments     Targets almost achieved.

Indicator 11 Establishment of National HIV/AIDS Commission.
Value        Established               Functioning                        Fully Functional

Date achieved 12/31/2002               12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments


Indicator 12 Establishment of a fully operational national HIV/AIDS M&E System including
             a database populated with program activity data.
Value        NA                        Fully operational                  Fully operational
                                                                          50% populated
Date achieved 12/31/2002               12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments     Target partly achieved. The database will be fully populated under the new
             project.

Indicator 13 Percentage of relevant public sector agencies reporting at least annually on their
             AIDS policies and program.
Value        50%                                                          87.5%
             9 out of 18               80%                                14 out of 16
Date achieved 12/31/2002               12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments


Indicator 14 Number of civil society organizations reporting annually on their AIDS policies
             and programs.
Value        4                         8                                  11

Date achieved 12/31/2002               12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments

                                              6




Indicator 15  Percentage of large companies/enterprises with HIV/AIDS workplace policies
              and programs.
Value         5%                        NA                                 75%

Date achieved 12/31/2003                12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments      Source: ILO/US Department of Labor workplace education project.

Indicator 16  Establishment of a fully operational Bio-Medical Waste System
Value         5%                        Fully operational
                                        BMWS                               67%

Date achieved 12/31/2002                12/31/2006                         12/31/2007
Comments      Target almost achieved. The system will be fully operational by the end of 2008.



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived              DO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                           (USD millions)
  1    11/09/2001         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    06/10/2002         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.15
  3    12/11/2002         Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                 0.85
  4    06/02/2003         Satisfactory             Highly Satisfactory                 1.55
  5    06/25/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     1.55
  6    12/04/2003         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     3.66
  7    05/27/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.00
  8    12/07/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.39
  9    12/16/2004         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     5.40
 10    04/29/2005         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     7.54
 11    07/14/2005         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory                7.56
 12    06/12/2006         Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    10.94
 13    12/22/2006         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               12.25
 14    06/12/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               13.38
 15    08/29/2007         Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory               13.93
 16    01/09/2008         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     14.77
 17    06/26/2008         Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     15.15



H. Restructuring (if any): NA

                           7




I.  Disbursement Profile

                                              8


1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2000, when the project was designed, HIV was spreading rapidly and the Caribbean
was - and still is - second only to sub-Saharan Africa in terms of the percentage of adult
population affected. Data showed a high acceleration rate, and HIV was spreading
beyond highly vulnerable groups into the general population. Although many Caribbean
governments had developed a response to the epidemic, efforts had not been
comprehensive enough to stop the disease's regional trajectory.

In response, the Bank launched a horizontal Adaptable Program Loan (APL) to provide
rapid assistance across the region. Although Barbados had already graduated from Bank
lending, it was one of the first two countries to receive support under the APL. The
rationale for Bank assistance was clear.       Although Barbados was a middle-income
country, with a well established national health delivery system, it was estimated that
more than 2 percent of the population was infected with HIV in 2001. The country also
has a strong leadership role in the region, its health infrastructure is used by smaller
neighboring countries, and it has a large, active tourism industry and is a hub for regional
transportation. In addition, the country was not able to obtain financing for program
expansion from other sources, since international donors were focusing their resources on
poorer countries throughout the world.

An important factor in the Barbados program was the Government's strong commitment
to fighting the disease. In September 2000, Barbados took the lead in organizing the first
regional conference on the disease. The same year, the Barbadian Parliament approved
increased funding for HIV/AIDS activities, and launched the high-level National
Advisory Committee on HIV/AIDS (NACA), which in 2001 became the National
HIV/AIDS Commission (NHAC), reporting directly to the Prime Minister. At the time of
project appraisal, Barbados had already formulated a proactive and multi-sectoral
response, and was using antiretroviral treatment (ART), which at the time was cutting-
edge. Both the Bank and the GOB saw the opportunity to scale up existing initiatives and
to integrate best practices into the national plan. The GOB contributed $8.5 million for
the $23.65 million project.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project was designed to assist the Government of Barbados to achieve the following
objectives:
    (i)     Reduce the rate of new HIV reported cases;
    (ii)    Increase the life expectancy of persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV);
    (iii)   Improve the quality of life of PLHIV; and
    (iv)    Build sustainable institutional arrangements for managing the HIV/AIDS
            epidemic.

                                                 9



                            Original Project Development Indicators

   1.   Annual percentage of reported new HIV cases.
   2.   Mortality rate attributed to AIDS.
   3.   Life expectancy of PLHIV.
   4.   Changes in high-risk sexual behavior and attitudes, as measured by changes in condom
        use, age at first sexual encounter for men and women, and reporting of unsafe sex
        practices.
   5. Percent of HIV/AIDS cases due to mother-to-child transmission.
   6. Percent transmission through blood transfusion.
   7.   Quantitative and qualitative changes in the quality of life of PLHIV.




                             Revised Project Development Indicators

1. Percentage of adults with HIV still alive 12 months after initiation of antiretroviral therapy.
2. Percentage of men and women with advanced HIV infection receiving ARV in the last 12
   months.
3. Percentage of HIV-positive pregnant women receiving a complete course of antiretroviral
   prophylaxis to reduce the risk of mother-to-child transmission.
4. Percentage of infants born to HIV infected mothers who are infected.
5. Median age at first sex.
6. Percentage of young men and women aged 15 to 24 who both correctly identify ways of
   preventing the sexual transmission of HIV and who reject major misconceptions about HIV
   transmission.
7. Percentage of young men and women aged 15 to 24 reporting the use of a condom the last
   time they had sex with a non-marital, non-cohabitating sexual partner.
8. Number of persons receiving post-test counseling and results.
9. Percentage of schools with teachers who have been trained in life-skills-based HIV education
   and who taught it during the last academic year.
10. Percentage of population expressing accepting attitudes towards PLHIV as measured by % of
    respondents saying that they would be willing to care for a family member who became sick
    with the AIDS virus; % of respondents saying that they would buy food from a PLHIV/eating
    in a restaurant; and % of respondents saying that a teacher/child who is HIV+ should be
    allowed to continue to teach/attend school.
11. Establishment of National HIV/AIDS Commission.
12. Establishment of a fully operational national M&E System database populated with program
    activity data.
13. Number of relevant public sector agencies reporting at least annually on their AIDS policies
    and program.
14. Number of civil society organizations reporting annually on their AIDS policies and
    programs
15. Percentage of large companies/enterprises which have HIV/AIDS workplace policies and
    programs.
16. Establishment of a fully operational Bio-Medical Waste System.

                                                       10


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

PDOs were not revised during the life of the project. In July 2006, the Bank agreed to
amend the Loan Agreement and the project indicators set forth in the Attachment to the
Loan Agreement. There were two primary reasons for revising the indicators. First, both
the Government and the Bank realized that the initial matrix of project indicators had
significant gaps and deficiencies, making it difficult to assess progress, and outcome
indicators were not measurable or compatible with UN General Assembly Special
Session - UNGASS indicators. The indicators were insufficient for measuring project
achievements and inadequate for managing project progress towards strategic objectives.

The second reason for revising the indicators related to the implementation of monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) activities, which were considered unsatisfactory by the Bank. The
Barbados health information system were not capturing nor producing sufficient relevant
information. The information that was captured focused mainly on clinic-level activities,
rather than on population-based prevention activities. The Bank urged the Government
to recruit qualified staff to manage the M&E system and to submit a list of new indicators,
which would include baseline data and progress data at both clinical and population
levels.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The main project beneficiaries were key populations at higher risk, including:

    · Adolescents in and out of school;
    · Pregnant women;
    · Sex workers and "beach boys";
    · Men who have sex with men;
    · People living with HIV/AIDS;
    · Persons with sexually transmitted infections (STIs);
    · Health workers;
    · Uniformed personnel; and
    · Hotel and tourism personnel.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS Transmission (US$5.7 million
total component cost, US$4.1 million loan). This component was designed to implement
prevention and control activities across the country. At a workshop in early 2001,
prevention programs were reviewed and work plans designed by six ministries1 and the


11) Ministry of Health (MH); 2) Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Culture (MEC); 3) Ministry of Social
Transformation (MST); 4) Office of the Attorney General and Ministry of Home Affairs (MAG); 5) Ministry of
Tourism (MTIT); and 6) Ministry of Labor, Sports and Public Sector Reform (MLS).

                                              11


Government Information Service.        Each ministry agreed to establish an HIV/AIDS
Coordination Unit to manage a focused work program and establish an outreach program
to cover the ministry's respective constituency. Oversight and M&E would be provided
by the NHAC, with technical assistance rendered by the Ministry of Health (MH). All
work would be coordinated by NHAC and would emphasize five categories of prevention
activities.    First, each ministry would consider Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) programs that would maintain or increase HIV awareness, and
would promote behavior changes among the general population.            Second, condom
distribution would be increased by social marketing, peer groups, and vending machines,
with each ministry focusing on prevention and control of sexually transmitted infections
(STI). The third activity focused on the continuation of the already successful prevention
of Mother-to-Child Transmission Program. Finally, the fourth activity would further
strengthen laboratories and ensure a safe blood supply.

Component 2: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Care for HIV/AIDS (US$14.3 million total
component cost, US$9.45 million loan). This Component was designed to scale up
existing programs for the diagnosis, treatment and care of HIV/AIDS patients. Under
this component, the project would support scaling up the following interventions:
voluntary testing and counseling; laboratory strengthening; pharmacy strengthening;
community and home care; and facilities for opportunistic infections (OI) treatment and
antiretroviral treatment (ART). While these activities were already being implemented in
2001, their scope was very limited. In addition to diagnosis, the GOB wanted to scale up
actions to respond to patients' needs, by reducing opportunistic infections and work
disability, and improving quality of life for PLHIV. Five subcomponents were identified.
First, voluntary counseling and confidential testing services would be expanded,
primarily through upgrading eight polyclinics and training 50 HIV/AIDS counselors.
Strengthening the capacity of medical laboratories was also deemed critical, given the
repercussions of ART provision on lab testing capacity and patient follow-up. Both staff
and equipment were to be upgraded under the subcomponent. The third subcomponent
focused on strengthening pharmaceutical services, and activities would build on the
strong infrastructure already in place. The project would support the Barbados Drug
Service (BDS) negotiations with UNAIDS to obtain lower-cost ARVs. In addition,
expanded pharmacy services and patient education programs were planned for the
HIV/AIDS Reference Center.        The fourth subcomponent was designed to improve
community health services, specifically home-based care for PLHIV. The project would
train 40 health workers and NGO volunteers on the WHO model of continuum AIDS care,
including education for family members, moral and psychosocial support and referrals
where necessary.     Finally, the fifth subcomponent planned to expand and upgrade
infrastructure for OI treatment and ART, and would include improved processes for
handling medical waste.

Component 3: Management and Institutional Strengthening (US$3.5 million total
Component cost, US$1.45 million loan). This component focused on capacity building
and institutional strengthening, and was designed to support the restructuring of
Barbados' existing HIV/AIDS program so that it could effectively control and prevent
HIV/AIDS and care for PLHIV over the long term. Efforts were to be coordinated

                                              12


through NHAC, which would function as the Project Coordination Unit. NHAC included
representatives from the private sector, the Church, trade unions, NGO, PLHIV and the
Director of the AIDS Management Team at Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH), the
primary service provider for PLHIV. Component 3 would also finance the project M&E,
including research activities, and would support the Ministry of Health (MH) in issues
related to surveillance, protocols of care, and technology.

1.6 Revised Components: NA

1.7 Other significant changes

This was the first project ever to involve Bank finance for anti-retroviral treatment
(ART). Although it stirred a fair share of controversy at inception, it has unquestionably
proven a success, and enabled Barbados to establish an early and positive example that
helped inspire later donors and new agencies to make HIV treatment a worldwide
priority. As ARVs became more affordable, the treatment agenda became much more
prominent and relevant. In response, MH procurement included more ARVs than was
initially planned, and the MH made treatment available to all patients under the program.
When the project was designed, viral load tests were not available in Barbados and had to
be performed out of the country at a cost of US$300 per test. The situation changed
during project implementation, with pharmacy and lab capacity significantly increased.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project planning was participatory and inclusive. The project was prepared by the MH
and PLHIV. The project design took into account both the existing regional approach ­
the Caribbean Regional Strategic Plan of Action formulated by the Regional Task Force
on HIV/AIDS - and the Government of Barbados (GOB)'s HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.

At the time of project design, lessons learned from global HIV/AIDS programs were
considered, including the importance of setting realistic priorities, building the capacity
of government, focusing on behavior change, ensuring access and treatment of STI, and
supporting the development of public goods.          Most importantly, the project team
reviewed experiences of HIV/AIDS programs that were scaled up to national level. In
addition, lessons learned from other World Bank-financed projects in the Caribbean were
taken into account, including the importance of donor coordination in emergency
situations, clearly defining the responsibilities of implementing agencies, flexibility in
procurement procedures and the need for greater involvement of civil society. Finally,
lessons learned from Barbados were taken into account, such as the difficulty of
encouraging adoption of new practices in individuals who resist change even when they
are well-informed about risks.

                                             13



In hindsight, based on the knowledge accumulated since the project was prepared in 2001,
the project design had the following weaknesses:

        Interventions with key populations at higher risk (sex workers, beach boys, men
        who have sex with men, prisoners and others) were poorly defined. The PAD
        discussed the need for preventive interventions for HIV-vulnerable groups, which
        was technically sound and relevant, but the project design did not elaborate
        enough on how the interventions would be actually carried out and monitored; nor
        did it delineate the human resources and skills required to accomplish it. This
        affected project implementation, which could have been more strongly focused on
        the most vulnerable groups.
        There was a limited relation between project components (e.g. the link between
        prevention and treatment activities and between different implementers at
        different levels). Implementation could have been more effective in reaching key
        groups at higher risk of HIV if there was closer relation between surveillance,
        monitoring and evaluation, prevention and treatment.
        As previously mentioned, initial indicators were insufficient for measuring project
        achievements and inadequate for managing project progress towards strategic
        objectives; and there was a significant delay in putting in place the M&E system.
        The PAD mentioned that Barbados had a shortage of qualified human resources
        that could move forward with a multisectoral program, particularly CSO and the
        private sector. The National Program would have benefited from having more
        skilled staff to support NHAC, CSO and private sector.
        Capacity building was not designed thoroughly for some stakeholders that had
        limited capacity, particularly CSO. Certain organizations required more robust
        training than that envisioned in the PAD.      This affected implementation, as the
        CSO working with key groups at higher risk of HIV could be stronger than they
        presently are.

2.2 Implementation

The Project was not formally restructured, nor did it have "at risk" status at any time
during implementation. The main project achievements at mid-term are indicated in the
box below. The mid-term review (MTR), which took place November 2-7, 2003,
recommended taking several strategic actions that would consolidate the program's
achievements and establish the institutional basis for its long-term sustainability,
including consolidating the strategic framework, initiating project performance studies,
and facilitating the implementation of specific activities.        In particular, the MTR
suggested increased emphasis on advocacy and behavior change; enacting anti-
discrimination legislation to protect the rights of PLHIV; developing the protocol for
adapting and using rapid tests; concluding arrangements to include generic compounds
into ART; procurement of quality generic ARV drugs at significantly reduced prices;
facility construction, remodeling and expansion; preparation of budget and financing
plans; and specific capacity building activities for program-related staff.

                                                 14


From the time of the MTR to project completion, the program addressed several of the
recommended actions, which allowed it to achieve most PDOs and PDIs. Among the
positive factors and events which influenced the project's implementation was the strong
and continuous commitment at the highest political levels in the GOB. Most notably, the
Prime Minister, his senior staff and members of the Cabinet actively promoted
HIV/AIDS awareness and set the tone for the prevention and control program. Also, the
GOB solidified the high priority of the issue by including HIV/AIDS funding in the
national budget, thus providing an incentive for all line ministries to create activities in
support of the national strategy (US $53,192,510 budgeted in the period 2001-2007). In
addition, the number of ministries involved increased during implementation, as well as
the participation of CSO and private sector.

                Achievements in the first two years of project implementation

       Population-wide awareness and sensitization on HIV/AIDS.
       Young people believing that "a healthy looking person cannot have HIV" decreased from
       9% in 2001 to 2% in 2003.
       63% of primary school and 75% of secondary school teachers were trained in HIV/AIDS
       life skills.
       The number of patients attending the new Ladymeade Reference Unit increased by 52%
       since 2002.
       76% of all HIV/AIDS infected pregnant women received ARV drugs.
       HIV + children born of HIV + mothers decreased from 28% in 1998 to less than 6% in
       2003.
       69% of patients under treatment achieved virologic success.
       Hospital admissions for treatment of opportunistic infections in HIV + patients decreased
       by 42% between 2001 and 2003.
       Total hospital days of HIV patients decreased by 59% and average length of stay by 30%
       between 2001 and 2003.
       Outpatient visits increased 128% from 4,727 per year to 10,782.
       In 2003, after ART became universally available, the number of deaths due to AIDS
       declined by 43%, from 95 in 2001 to 55 in 2002.
       In-patient costs post-ART declined by 41%.
       90% of patients under treatment at Ladymeade Reference Unit considered the quality of
       medical care received excellent or very good.
       12 agencies carried out 30 research studies (surveys, KAPs, focus groups, etc.); 8 posters
       presented at the 2nd International AIDS Society Conference and other 8 studies were
       presented at the Caribbean Health Research Council's Scientific Symposium, Barbados
       being the largest scientific contributor to the forum.


As recommended by the MTR, the HIV strategic framework was consolidated, an anti-
discrimination policy to protect the rights of PLHIV was enacted, and a behavior change
communication strategy was prepared. The BCC Strategy was approved in 2007, and the
National Policy on HIV/AIDS and Strategic Framework 2008-2013, which will be
implemented under the follow on project, were approved by Cabinet in 2008. The MH
started developing the protocol for adapting and using rapid tests, which will be
implemented under the new project; and procured quality generic ARV drugs at
significantly reduced prices. Facilities were constructed and remodeled. The NHAC and

                                              15


implementing agencies started preparing budgets and financing plans; and significant
capacity building activities for program staff took place during the first project.

Factors and events which negatively influenced the project's implementation included the
following:

        Limited involvement of key groups at higher risk of HIV on preventive
        interventions. Although targeted preventive interventions were featured in the
        project design, implementation of this approach was limited. In general, with
        regard to prevention, there was more focus on IEC for the general population than
        on outreach work with key groups at higher risk of HIV.
        The program relied on IEC models that did not provide sufficient incentive to
        cause changes in practices. In retrospect, a broader BCC strategy and a separate
        communications component should have been planned since the beginning,
        including strategies to overcome traditional sensitivities about working with hard-
        to-reach groups and speaking openly about high-risk behaviors.
        There was reduced emphasis on prevention compared to treatment and care.
        While the increasingly prominent ART agenda was a positive factor, it might
        have skewed or diluted prevention efforts. With the advent of ART, there seemed
        to be a perception of HIV/AIDS as a reduced threat that no longer demanded
        sustained response at all levels.
        Condom use and distribution was a relatively low priority as a HIV prevention
        strategy. The Barbados IEC strategy was synonymous with the ABC approach
        (Abstain, Be faithful, use Condoms), but some stakeholders mostly emphasized A
        and B, and had a timid approach on C. National and free distribution of condoms
        was limited to less than 1% of the total condoms procured and sold in the country.
        Identifying and recruiting human resources was consistently an issue for NHAC
        and implementing partners. The system was slow and inflexible, often taking a
        year or more to complete the hiring process for a civil servant.
        The M&E framework was not adequately structured, as explained below.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Barbados HIV/AIDS and STI Program M&E system is only now becoming fully
functional. Before loan closing, the NHAC completed the development of the national
M&E Framework, and developed a complete inventory of all studies carried out to date,
including databases and instruments utilized, and analysis plans. It is anticipated that in
the near future, under the new project, Barbados will have a considerable amount of
information from regular information systems, disease surveillance and special studies.
This will be a golden opportunity for the NHAC to consolidate all that information and
fill key indicators, which will be crucial for further strategy development.

The NHAC collects and reports on some key indicators to UNGASS and the Bank. HIV
surveillance data from VCT, PMTCT and the Blood Bank is collected regularly, and a
model to estimate national prevalence rates was developed and applied in 2002 and 2006,
which was the basis for describing the epidemic in the country. Although M&E faced
multiple challenges, the quality of health facility records is high. One of the major

                                            16


strengths of the Barbados health system is the high quality of surveillance information
from laboratories and VCT services, Blood Bank, and ante-natal care and other clinical
records.   Information on care and treatment is highly sophisticated and complete,
including the databases developed and implemented by the Ladymeade Reference Unit
(LRU) and QEH. An improved M&E framework will enable NHAC to utilize that data
more effectively.

Population-based studies were carried out on knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) in
the country, targeting the general population and adolescents. However, the Division of
Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports (MES) changed
operational definitions of the indicators during project implementation, so trends over
time could not be drawn with a reasonable level of confidence. In addition, there is little
data on the preventive services delivered and education activities carried out with key
populations at higher risk of infection by these implementing partners, except for youth.
Program interventions of other line ministries and private sector, including CSO, will be
collected in a systematic and standardized manner in the future.

The initial design of the M&E activities was assessed as unsatisfactory during
implementation and was revised in 2006. In general, the M&E program relied on
clinical-based records and special studies, but lacked systematic data collection tools at
all levels and input from different implementing partners. The initial design was based
on an IT platform that turned out to be unrealistic. This problem delayed monitoring of
program activities, and strategies and methodologies for data collection were not
correctly envisioned from the beginning. Roles and responsibilities also lacked sufficient
definition. In addition to framework weaknesses, the set of initial indicators used during
implementation to determine the magnitude of the epidemic and its drivers was not useful.
The MTR recommended reviewing and simplifying reporting formats, which was done.

While some components and subsystems are already in place, the integrated analysis and
decision making processes need further strengthening. Some data have not been collected,
analyzed or shared, and in other cases data have not been routinely collected. These gaps
not only prevent managers from being able to assess program performance, hindering
their ability to make corrections, but prevent Barbados from knowing if HIV/AIDS
investments have been effective. Finally, improved human resources will allow NHAC
to support and institutionalize the work that is being carried out by the implementing
partners.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Biomedical Waste System is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2008.
Under the project, there was significant progress on safeguards issues, including a
marked improvement in the separation of hospital waste. In January 2007, the
Government and World Bank agreed on an action plan to ensure compliance with Bank
Safeguard Policies prior to loan closing. The action plan reflected recommendations of
the consultancy carried out by Garry Struthers Associates, INC, on environmental impact
of hospital waste. Over the last year of the project, the infectious disease control

                                              17


committee of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital (QEH) implemented key actions to improve
health care waste management at the hospital with the effect that health care waste is
appropriately sorted throughout the facility. Actions include the implementation and
enforcement of a manifest system. Before loan closing, the MHNI started the tender
process for a new incinerator, which is scheduled to be operational in October 2008.

A review of the contract for the construction of the Food Bank and Personal Center raised
questions about the norms and practices of the use of "Demon" whose active chemical is
cypermethrin ­ a moderately hazardous (Class II) pesticide. The Bank does not finance
formulations of products in Class II (WHO) unless (a) the country restricts their
distribution and use; and (b) they are not likely to be used by, or be accessible to, lay
personnel, farmers, or others without training, equipment, and facilities to handle, store,
and apply these products properly. It was determined that both conditions have been met.
Demon PC (Pest Control) is a product that can only be purchased by registered firms. In
the case of the Food Bank, the contractor sub-contracted the pesticide application to a
registered pest control firm. Given that the product has a restricted distribution, it is not
likely to be used by, or be accessible to, lay personnel, farmers, or others without training,
equipment, and facilities to handle, store, and apply these products properly.

                  Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) Action Plan Results

    1) MoH adopted WHO HCWM guidelines;
    2) An old incinerator was demolished; the existing incinerator was improved to function as
        back up for the new one;
    3) A HCWM committee was formed and is functioning with quarterly meetings;
    4) The Final Report from the Consultancy "To Design a Medical Waste Management
        System for Barbados" was accepted by the MoH, and was reviewed by the Bank;
    5) The tender process for the incinerator was initiated;
    6) Public education & awareness on disposal of sharps is periodically done by the MoH.

        Actions pending

    1) HCWM Stakeholders Forum;
    2) Continuous capacity building program;
    3) Procurement and installation of incinerator, which is scheduled for October 2008.


The inherent fiduciary risk of the operation was low because of the transparent fiduciary
environment prevailing in Barbados. Barbados generally has high marks from
Transparency International (6.9 in 2007). However, a QAG Panel rated the overall
quality of supervision of this project as Moderately Satisfactory (3 on the 6 point rating
scale). It rated the Focus on Development Effectiveness and Adequacy of Supervision
Inputs and Processes as Satisfactory (2) and the Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard
Aspects and Candor and quality of ISR as Moderately Satisfactory (3). The reasons for
this were the following: audit reports for the years ending 31 March 2002, 2003, and
2005 were submitted late without remedies taken by the Bank team. The review of the
2004 audit report was done untimely due to a switch in responsibilities in the FM unit.
Between 2001 and 2005, the client did not comply with the legal covenant to submit

                                             18


quarterly PMRs. Only in 2006 effective steps were taken to ensure that these reports were
submitted. The supervision mission in November 2004 (not joined by a FMS) identified
FM staff shortages (not the lack of skills of current staff) as the main reason for the sub-
standard fiduciary performance. There was little evidence of FM supervision activity
and/or support provided during FY05 apart from reviewing audit reports. However, the
situation was eventually corrected, and the QAG considered FM supervision conducted in
FY06 highly satisfactory. In 2007, both Government and Bank fiduciary performance
were satisfactory. All withdrawal applications to fully utilize loan funds were submitted
before the revised closing date.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Given the satisfactory progress of the first project and the remaining unfinished work, the
GOB has requested a loan that would contribute to tackling the outstanding challenges
posed by the HIV epidemic. The request has come from the highest levels of the GOB.
The Bank responded to the specific request of the GOB with the preparation of a project
that will follow a results-based financing approach, and support the implementation of
the 2008-2013 Barbados National HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan, specifically to increase:

    · Adoption of safe behaviors, in particular amongst key groups at higher risk.
    · Access to prevention, treatment and social care, in particular for key groups at
        higher risk.
    · Capacity of organizational and institutional structures that govern the NAP.
    · Use of quality data for problem identification, strategy definition and measuring
        results.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The initial design of the project, focusing on supporting and expanding Government
efforts, was very relevant to the situation in Barbados at the time of loan approval, and it
continues to be highly relevant today. The PDOs and plan of action to achieve the 5-year
strategic objectives of Barbados on HIV/AIDS followed a structure that responded to the
needs for HIV/AIDS care and treatment in the country in 2001. The original PDOs were
relevant, considering the projected course of the epidemic that was valid at the time, in
which the number of known PLHIV and of those under treatment was expected to be
high in the years following loan approval. However, the project did not have a specific
PDO related to prevention and the adoption of protective behaviors by youth and hard-to-
reach groups at higher risk.

Barbados was the first country in the world in which the Bank financed ARV, which had
favorable impacts on mortality, hospital length-of-stay, and health system costs. However,
as previously stated, the introduction of ART in Barbados predated the program, and its
use was expanded during program implementation, which might have contributed to
dilute the importance of prevention activities. The project components, activities and

                                                19


institutional arrangements reflected most of the current thinking and experience
formulating a multi-sector approach to HIV/AIDS at the time the project was approved.
These were still substantially relevant by loan closing. However, component activities
tended to be skewed towards care and treatment at the expense of initiatives to improve
knowledge, attitudes and practices. More analysis could have been done on NHAC's
ability to prioritize interventions given that baseline data were mostly unavailable when
the project started. The second project will strive to reach a better balance between
prevention and treatment, and to develop a specific plan to reach key groups at higher
risk of HIV.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives: Satisfactory

Today, HIV/AIDS is under control in Barbados, and the challenge is to continue reducing
transmission while sustaining treatment and quality of life for those living with the
disease. To date, through the initial support of the Bank, the Barbados HIV/AIDS
Program has achieved high levels of awareness, treatment and care. However, it has been
less successful in inducing the level of sustained behavior change required for prevention
and control of the epidemic.

                                   Main Project Achievements

Barbados has put in place a comprehensive prevention and treatment program, with the following
main results:

· AIDS mortality declined by 72% between 2001 and 2006.
· New AIDS cases declined by 46%. This refers only to AIDS cases, which have declined as a
    result of treatment.
· Hospital admissions for treatment of opportunistic infections in PLHIV decreased by 42%.
· Maternal transmission was kept at very low levels (below 2 cases per year).
· Blood supply remained safe with 100% testing.
· Share of people reporting positive attitudes towards PLHIV rose from less than 40% to nearly
    80%.
· The community voluntary counseling and testing program, including training of more than
    100 new counselors, was launched and expanded.
· A world-class testing laboratory was established at Ladymeade Reference Unit.
· The pharmacy system was strengthened, with all necessary ARV available for all PLHIV
    who qualify.
· The project was the first World Bank- financed project to support antiretroviral treatment.

                                     Remaining Challenges

· Estimated HIV prevalence has not been reduced and the number of reported cases continues
    to rise. This refers only to HIV cases, not AIDS cases, which have declined as a result of
    treatment.
· Feminization of the epidemic has been rapidly increasing; the male-to-female ratio now
    stands at 1.
· Key groups at high risk of infection (sex workers, beach boys, men who have sex with men,
    prisoners and others) require better, more effective outreach activities.

                                                                                            20


· Social care of PLHIV needs to be strengthened.
· Condom procurement and distribution to key groups at high risk should be improved.
· M&E system should be fully functional.
· Evidence and data should be a key factor in designing future programming.
· Information flows and reporting should be more robust.
· Multi-sector institutional roles and relations need to be clarified and solidified



PDO 1: Reduce the rate of new HIV reported cases

This objective was only partially achieved. The first case of HIV/AIDS was detected in
Barbados in 1984, at a time when the epidemic was confined to men who have sex with
men (MSM). However, the number of reported HIV cases continued to rise, particularly
among self-reported heterosexual men and women of reproductive age. There are about
2,100 people known to be living with HIV (PLHIV) in Barbados, but MHNI estimates
suggest that the total number of infected adults may be significantly higher. The reported
HIV and AIDS cases represent the visible part of the epidemic. Studies estimate that
approximately one-third of the HIV-positive population does not know their HIV status.


                                          Reported HIV and AIDS Cases and Deaths and PLHIV: 1984-2006

                                                                                          HIV         AIDS           Deaths           PLHIV
                                           Total cumulative reported
                                                            cases                         3,241        2,025          1,329            1,912



The Caribbean Region continues to have the highest HIV prevalence among adults
outside Sub-Saharan Africa. The estimated prevalence rate increased in Barbados from
1.3% in 2001 to 1.5% in 2006. The graph below shows that while new AIDS cases and
AIDS mortality significantly declined (46% and 72%, respectively) since the advent of
anti-retroviral treatment in 2001, estimated HIV prevalence continues to increase.

                                                 Summary Profile of reported AIDS and HIV cases 1984 to 2006


                                  250                                                                                                                  2500




    )sh                           200                                                                                                                  2000


       eatD
           &                                                                                                                                                )VIHLP(
            SDIA,VIH(             150                                                                                                                  1500        ce
                                                                                                                                                                     en

                                                                                                                                                                       evalrp

                     asesC        100                                                                                                                  1000

                          detropeR                                                                                                                                           edtroper
                                                                                                                                                                                     VIH

                                   50                                                                                                                  500




                                    0                                                                                                                  0
                                     1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006

                                                                                            Year


                                                                AIDS         HIV        Deaths         reported HIV prevalence (PLHIV)

                                                                                      21


In 2006, over 75% of reported infections occurred in the 15 to 49 years age group, and
overall this group comprises 77% of all reported cases since 1983. In addition, the
epidemic has been steadily feminizing (typical of an epidemic as it matures), with a male
to female ratio of 1:1 in 2006. Until 2004, the highest proportion of AIDS cases was
found in the 30 to 39 years age group, but since then the 40 to 49 age group has had a
higher proportion of cases. The median age at HIV and AIDS diagnosis has risen overall,
from 35 years of age in 2001 to 39 years in 2006 (28 in 1990 to 38 in 2006 in females and
31 to 42 in males).


                                                               Trends in age at AIDS onset from 1983 to 2006


                                 70


                                              0 to 9 yrs

                                 60           10 to 19 yrs

                                              20 to 29 yrs

                                              30 to 39 yrs
                                 50
                                              40 to 49 yrs

                                              50 to 59 yrs
         asesc                   40           over 60
              SDIA                            Poly. (40 to 49 yrs )

                  of
                    erb          30

                       m
                        nula     20
                            nnuA

                                 10



                                  0
                                   1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006


                                -10

                                                                                          Year




However, maternal transmission was kept at very low levels with the number of infants
born to HIV infected mothers kept below 2 per year in 2005 and 2006, and new AIDS
cases declined by 46% (this refers only to AIDS cases, which have declined as a result of
treatment). Maternal transmitted HIV has been substantially reduced, with only one child
born HIV positive in the last two years. An evaluation study of the PMTCT program in
Barbados revealed that there has been a major positive impact through intervention with
prophylactic anti-retroviral drug therapy, with a significant decrease in transmission of
HIV.

                                                                22



                                        HIV Prevalence (percent) in Pregnant women


         1.80%


                                                     1.67%
         1.60%           1.63%
                                                                                                                          1.58%



         1.40%



         1.20%                  1.19%                                                                 1.21%

                                                            1.13%                1.11%

         1.00%

                  0.90%                0.90%  0.89%                0.89%  0.92%                0.89%

         0.80%                                                                          0.81%



         0.60%
                                                                                                                    0.54%


         0.40%

                                                                                                             0.28%

         0.20%



         0.00%
               1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005




The blood supply is reported to be safe due to universal HIV screening of all blood and
blood products.

Epidemic-related knowledge, attitudes and practices (KAP) do not seem to have
significantly changed among youth; and condom use, especially among most vulnerable
groups, is low. The percent of youth able to correctly identify ways of preventing the
sexual transmission of HIV, and who had no misconceptions about HIV transmission,
increased only from 0.1% in 2001 to 1% in 2006. However, other evidence from the
2001, 2003 and 2005 youth KAP surveys indicate that educational messages have been
successful in raising knowledge levels but less so in affecting changes in unsafe practices.

The median age at first sex did not significantly change during the life of the project.
Only about 27% of young men and 16% of young women report having used a condom
the last time they had sex with a non-marital, non-cohabiting sexual partner in the last
year. Data show that sex workers (SW) use condoms 80% of the time with clients, and
condom use among men who have sex with men (MSM) is reported to have increased.
However, the end-of-project targets for condom use of 85% use among men and women
15-24 years were too ambitious, considering the reported 2002 and 2005 percentage use
among men and women 15-24 years.

Studies estimate that approximately one-third of the HIV-positive population either does
not know their HIV status or are not accessing the comprehensive treatment and support
system of the National AIDS Program (NAP). The community voluntary counseling and
testing program, including training of more than 100 new counselors, was launched and
expanded. A world-class testing laboratory was established at Ladymeade Reference Unit.
The percentage of people benefitting from VCT increased 17% from 2002 to 2006.
However, a review of the National AIDS Program2 indicated that since the start of the



2National AIDS Program 2007. The HIV/AIDS Situation in Barbados 1984-2006.

                                                                                                       23


program, the general population is not accessing VCT services significantly. This is
especially true for people who engage in high risk practices. Surveys show that many
have taken a test (46%) at one time for reasons such as pregnancy, insurance, loans or
travel, but less than 10% of those who practice inconsistent condom use and have
multiple partners seek testing.

A behavior change communication strategy was approved under the first project, and
implementation started under the first project and will be continued under the second one.

PDO 2: Increase the life expectancy of persons living with HIV

This objective was achieved by increasing HIV to AIDS survival and AIDS to death
survival. The GOB has put in place a free, comprehensive treatment and care program
for PLHIV. In 2007, there were 1,102 PLHIV registered at the LRU; of these 615 are
receiving anti-retroviral treatment (all those who require ART)3. HIV-related deaths
were reduced by 72% since the beginning of the project in 2001 and the end of 2006, as a
result of the policy to provide antiretroviral treatment free of charge; 96% of infected
pregnant women received a complete course of ART to reduce the risk of mother-to-child
transmission, which kept infection among infants born to HIV+ mothers at very low
levels (2.6%). About 85% of adults with advanced HIV infections received ART in 2005,
and about 97% of diagnosed adults living with HIV were still alive 12 months after
initiation of treatment in 2006. Median survival rates have risen steadily with 81% of
those enrolled between 2002 (first full year of ART) and 2006 still alive by the end of
2006. One-year AIDS survival has risen from 65% in 2000 to 95% by the end of 2006.
By the end of 2006, 65% of those diagnosed with AIDS years ago were still alive. The
most likely reasons for this increase in survival are the improvement in early detection of
HIV and advances and success in ART in prolonging lives of PLHIV.


                                                                        Trends in 12months survivial after AIDS Diagnosis by Gender


                                                       100.0%


   si                                                   90.0%

     gnosa
          diretfa                                       80.0%


                 sht                                    70.0%
                    m
                     12
                                                        60.0%
                       anht
                           ero                                                                                                                                Male
                                                        50.0%
                              m                                                                                                                               Female
                               gnivirus                 40.0%

                                       A
                                        WLP             30.0%

                                           of
                                             onit       20.0%


                                                 oporrP 10.0%


                                                         0.0%
                                                              1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005

                                                                                                   Year of AIDS Diagnosis




3MHNI 2008. HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report January-June 2007.

                                             24



Key stakeholders and studies attribute the dramatic reduction in mortality to the expanded
response supported by the project, including the introduction of ART, and care and
support service delivered through the centralized clinic services of the MHNI and the
private sector. The project was the first World Bank-financed project to support
antiretroviral treatment. The pharmacy system was strengthened, and is able to provide
all necessary ARV to all patients who qualify, at reduced prices; and a world-class testing
laboratory was established at Ladymeade Reference Unit. The percentage of lab testing
increased 22% from 2002 to 2006. Laboratory capacity was built up, with the Ladymeade
Reference Unit Lab being able to test all identified PLHIV for viral load and CD4. The
LRU is making arrangements to initiate testing of viral resistance to ART drugs. All
necessary equipment has been procured and installed. The government is currently
seeking to provide laboratory services at a fee to other countries in the Caribbean.

PDO 3: Improve quality of life of PLHIV

This objective was achieved. More than 65% of the estimated number of PLHIV and over
90% of the diagnosed AIDS patients are accessing services. However, this data does not
apply to the non-citizen residents of Barbados, who are not eligible for the NAP's care
and treatment services. Also as a result of the ART policy, hospital admissions for
treatment of opportunistic infections among HIV patients decreased by 42%, and the total
number of hospital days fell by 59%. The share of people reporting positive attitudes
towards PLHIV rose from less than 40% to nearly 80%. A Health and Social Services
Utilization Study (HASSUS) showed that quality of life of patients receiving treatment
and support increased by 14% in the first 18 months of the program. However, the study
also showed that PLHIV receiving treatment and support continue to be marginalized
from the workplace and from comprehensive health and supportive services as a result of
self-stigma and discrimination. According to this study, while a PLHIV may not have
been involved in sex work, there is a risk that he/she turns to this form of employment,
formally or informally, as a means of generating economic sustainability within their
household. A prospective study of women receiving PMTCT services showed that
almost 25% of previous HIV positive mothers returned to the service pregnant within 2
years, with a different "father-to-be". Disclosure of HIV status in such situations is not
common among HIV positive persons. Renovation of the Edgar Cochrane Polyclinic was
completed by loan closing. Construction of the Food Bank by China State Corporation
was 70% completed, with completion expected for March 2008. However, social care of
PLHIV needs to be further developed under the second project.

PDO 4: Build sustainable institutional arrangements for managing the HIV/AIDS
epidemic.

This objective was achieved. Extensive work has been done to put in place the UN
"Three Ones" principles: there is (i) one agreed HIV/AIDS Action Framework that
provides the basis for coordinating the work of all partners; (ii) one national AIDS
coordinating authority (NHAC), with a broad-based multisectoral mandate; and (iii) a
monitoring and evaluation system has been established. However, as mentioned before,

                                              25


the M&E system remains the element of the "Three Ones" that most needs additional
work, and institutional roles need to be further strengthened. A true multisectoral
approach to HIV/AIDS prevention and control has been put in place. The HIV/AIDS
Strategic Plan was prepared under the project, it was reviewed by UNAIDS and ASAP,
and approved by the government shortly after loan closing. An HIV/AIDS Action
Framework that provides the basis for coordinating the work of all partners has been
agreed under the project. A National AIDS Coordinating Authority, with a broad-based
multisectoral mandate, is fully functional. The M&E system was established and
strengthened. Of 18 Ministries, 15 report annually to NHAC on their respective HIV
prevention programs. The number of AIDS-related CSO reporting annually to NHAC
increased from 4 in 2002 to 11 in 2007. The percentage of enterprises targeted by the
Project, which have HIV/AIDS policies and programs in the workplace, has increased
from 5% in 2003 to 75% in 2007. All participant agencies have increased the awareness
of their constituencies over the life of the project. NHAC has facilitated the coordination
and implementation of the project through the implementing partners, managed the
project resources, and has served as the main counterpart of all financing and technical
assistance groups.

The resulting "Barbados Model" successfully built sustainable institutional arrangements.
The M&E system was established and strengthened. However, progress has been uneven
across institutions and a number of shortcomings have emerged that challenge the long-
term success of the system. Multi-sector institutional roles and relations, especially
between NHAC and key ministries such as the Ministries of Health, Education, Social
Transformation, Labor and Tourism, have to be further developed. NHAC continued
supporting periodic meetings and technical working groups (TWG), but some TWGs
have played only a minor role in the development of new initiatives and institutionalizing
systems.

In the context of project supervision and preparation of the follow on project, PDO and
PDI were reviewed in depth, and the M&E framework was updated. The NHAC
submitted an inventory of 32 surveys and other studies that were carried between 2001
and 2007. Project M&E was established during the first half of the project and the
national M&E framework and operational plan, which includes the strategic flow of
information and data, was finalized before loan closing to be implemented under the new
project. In terms of staffing, NHAC has a program unit manager but no M&E officers,
and the Department of Youth Affairs of the MES has a Research Officer and MES has a
Planning and Research Unit. All HIV testing for the country has been carried out by the
QEH, which is also the main source of information for sentinel surveillance. Sentinel
surveillance data is being recorded manually at QEH and entered into a database at MH.
NHAC, MH and the MES/Department of Youth Affairs have carried out a number of
studies on HIV prevention practices, care and treatment and epidemiological trends.
SHIP is a PLHIV database at the LRU, which includes patient information from the time
of enrollment, as well as care and treatment. The MH does receive information from all
health services, but has not structured a health management information system. With
the assistance of CAREC and WHO/PAHO, the MH is strengthening the disease
surveillance program to structure a robust and comprehensive information system.

                                             26


Seroprevalence and KAP surveys will be carried out under the new project to enable
NHAC to make strategic decisions based on robust evidence.

Conclusions, recommendations and lessons learned

Overall, the project had a dramatic impact on ultimate outcomes. The share of persons
with advanced HIV infections who are receiving treatment has risen from 12% to more
than 80%. Annual deaths from AIDS have declined by more than 70%. The share of
people reporting positive attitudes toward persons living with AIDS has risen from less
than 40% to nearly 80%. Equally important, Barbados has proven the feasibility of
providing sustained HIV care and treatment and provided key lessons for its neighbors
and other countries. Prevention programs have also grown substantially. Although not
all intermediate project targets were reached, it is clear from today's greater knowledge
of HIV/AIDS that some of these were unimportant to controlling the epidemic.
Consequently, the project is regarded as having been successful. It also disbursed in full.
The key challenges for the next phase will be to institutionalize better monitoring and
evaluation practices, improve outreach to the groups at highest risk, and achieve safer
sexual practices among young people. The new national strategy focuses on these areas,
as will the next operation.

HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns designed to reach key populations at higher risk have
not significantly affected sexual practices. Part of the challenge lies with the fact that key
populations at higher risk have to be better involved in the prevention and control work;
and there has not been comprehensive training in behavior change communication (BCC).
IEC contributed to the achievement of high levels of awareness among the general
population; it is recommended that the program moves into the implementation of the
comprehensive BCC strategy involving key groups at high risk of infection.

Outreach for key populations at higher risk needs to be improved but this will be
challenging. As a relatively small country, with close-knit family and social networks,
people are often reluctant to identify themselves as being part of a vulnerable group, and
may avoid government services and their perceived lack of confidentiality.                The
conservative nature of Barbadian society has also resulted in the social prohibition of
providing condoms to men in prison and an overwhelming public outcry against
recommendations to decriminalize anal sex among consenting adults. The regional
nature of the sex trade, with workers moving frequently among islands, further
complicates attempts to reach them. By working more closely with CSO that have the
trust of these vulnerable groups, services can be made more readily available to them.

The Ministry of Education Youth Affairs activities have been considered by NHAC "star
projects" for their consistent efforts in educating young people. The school curriculum
on HIV has been institutionalized, as well as the work with the out-of-school populations.
To move forward, the DYA staff indicated that they would like to expand prevention
activities to include more youth groups; to focus more on counseling and to receive
further training on BCC strategies. It is also recommended that the DYA continue
implementing KAP studies standardizing the analysis, and complement these with in-

                                            27


depth studies to assess the beliefs about modes of transmission of HIV, sexual practices
and preventive behaviors in order to refine BCC strategies.

While the National AIDS Program has engaged in voluntary counseling and testing
(VCT), further collaboration with community groups and CSO will make VCT more
available. Building capacity among CSO that work with key populations at higher risk
such as men who have sex with men (MSM) and sex workers (SW) to perform VCT will
greatly increase access, as well as referral to treatment and care, for these underserved
groups. Implementing rapid testing could increase the number of organizations that can
offer HIV testing services and further increase the number of people tested who return to
get their results.

The laboratory and blood bank should maintain their current activities and standards.
Issues that still need to be addressed are improving the turn-around time of test results,
implementing rapid tests (mainly in peripheral areas), engagement of more workplaces in
HIV testing, and implementing the "opt-out" approach to testing within the health system.
The LRU needs support to procure reagents and to purchase equipment for introducing
rapid tests, and for carrying out sero-prevalence studies. While initial successes were
many, effort will be required to sustain case management and treatment. Surveillance of
drug resistance needs to be included in the overall M&E system.

The number of patients requiring ARV will continue to grow, as the incidence of HIV
may continue to increase in the short-term, and prevalence will continue to increase due
to longer survival of PLHIV under treatment. The second project would continue to
support ART and finance ARV, as these represent a relatively small percentage of the
HIV/AIDS budget (less than 20%).

Social care of people living with HIV (PLHIV) also needs strengthening. PLHIV are
currently assigned to a social worker if necessary, but access to psychological support
services or home care needs improvement. The Ministry of Health, National Insurance
and Social Security (MH) reports a great need among PLHIV and high risk groups for
counseling and support on drug use (alcohol, marijuana and cocaine). A study by the
National Council on Substance Abuse reported that less than 4% of respondents (10 out
of 278) in 2005 engaged in intravenous drug use. However, the lack of judgment brought
on by drug use (intravenous or other) is often accompanied by high risk sexual behavior
and/or sex being traded for drugs. In addition to improving the quality of life of PLHIV
and key populations at higher risk, providing individual and group drug counseling can
also contribute to reducing HIV transmission.

Finally, multi-sector institutional roles and relations have to be further strengthened,
especially between NHAC and key ministries such as the Ministries of Health, Social
Care, Education, Labor and Tourism.          Although the framework for the national
HIV/AIDS strategy is multi-sectoral, the reality is that on the ground it has proven
challenging to coordinate all of the Program's partners. Some institutions lack dedicated
HIV coordinators, and in some instances resources to fully cooperate and share
information with the NHAC. The MH is responsible for important essential public health

                                              28


functions, some of which ­ for example, surveillance ­ also need strengthening. The
Commission continued supporting periodic meetings and technical working groups;
however, some TWGs have played only a minor role in the development of new
initiatives and institutionalizing systems. The human resources constraint remained a
problem during the life of the project. The recruitment and hiring process was extremely
slow, and in some cases took more than two years. A human resources development
policy is needed.

3.3 Efficiency

An economic and financial analysis was not carried out before loan closing. However, the
net present value of the benefits of the new project were estimated at US$295 million,
with an internal rate of return of over 85 percent over ten years. These benefits would be
due to savings in hospital, outpatient, and general treatment and support costs of
prevented infections, as well as to the indirect gains of increased productivity due to
improved health and longer lives. The assessment of the long term sustainability of the
activities supported by the new Bank loan shows that, at the end of the project, the GOB
would be assuming total new recurrent costs of less then 2 percent of the current public
national health sector expenditure. Given the stability of the Barbados economy and its
projected growth over the next five years, this increase in recurrent costs is sustainable.

The first project also contributed to reduce human suffering and costs of AIDS for
families, the health system and the economy. These effects allowed Barbados to
significantly reduce the risk of losses in GDP, poverty rates, and erosion of social
cohesion. As expected, the project allowed Barbados to continue to manage the epidemic
through the longer term.

However, due to the urgency caused by the epidemic, the NAP initiated activities without
prioritizing interventions on the basis of cost-effectiveness. Also, as previously
mentioned, the program favored care over prevention and had a limited understanding of
the nature and drivers of the HIV epidemic, which meant that some activities did not
target interventions on the basis of this information. Civil society organizations tended to
focus on narrow aspects of health education, and it might have been possible to add other
interventions such as BCC and condom promotion without significant marginal costs.
Finally, the government's coordination of various HIV/AIDS resources and inputs from
different sources could have been more robust, which would have made NHAC more
efficient.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

With a substantial rating for project relevance (4 out of 4); substantial for project efficacy
(3 out of 4), and substantial for efficiency (3 out of 4), the overall outcome rating is
satisfactory (10 out of 12).

                                            29



3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development. The project
contributed to the reduction of human suffering and costs of AIDS for families, the health
system and the economy, which allowed Barbados to significantly reduce the risk of
losses in GDP, poverty rates, and erosion of social cohesion. The feminization of the
epidemic has been rapidly increasing, with a male-to-female ratio which now stands at
1:1. The Ministry of Social Transformation works with single, unemployed and
dependent women, who were identified as one of the key groups at higher risk of
infection. HIV/AIDS is closely related to low socio-economic status and low level of
education. The HASSUS quality of life component showed that employed PLHIV had
been either fired or removed themselves from the workplace, and had the lowest mental
health of all the groups observed, despite major increases in their physical well being. In
addition, all members of the group that were fired from their jobs expressed that they did
not want to return to the workforce and hence remained unemployed after 2 years of
treatment. Under the project, the Division of Youth Affairs of the MES provided skills
training to youth and helped them improve their economic conditions.               Welfare
Department identified PLHIV for additional support. Finally, the Food Bank was an
initiative directly aimed at helping poor PLHIV.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening. Institutional capacity to implement the
national HIV/AIDS Program has been put in place under the project. The National
HIV/AIDS Commission (NHAC) is responsible for overall coordination of the response
to ensure complete coverage, without gaps and unnecessary duplication in the
implementation of the National AIDS Strategic Plan. The National HIV/AIDS
Commission's Secretariat performed the functions of Project Coordination Unit. Each
ministry is responsible for the design, work plans, budgeting, procurement,
implementation, and M&E of its own activities. The NHAC and MH provide technical
assistance to ministries as needed.       The ministries have the technical capacity to
implement the national HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan through the designated HIV
coordinators/focal points. Unlike some other parts of the world, in Barbados the fight
against the HIV/AIDS epidemic is mainly led by the Government. However, CSO and
private sector groups participated in the project. There are approximately 11 CSO
working on AIDS-related issues in the country. The majority has been recently
established and faces challenges in terms of their organizational and institutional
capacities, staffing and resources. An important advance in recent years has been that the
NHAC has managed to get faith-based organizations from different religions, considered
a critical ally in the Barbadian context, engaged in prevention efforts. Parishes and
communities have been mobilized and empowered to implement HIV/AIDS
interventions. Led by the trade union movement and the International Labor Organization,
approximately 11 private businesses now have workplace programs in place, and others
finance and volunteer staff or are exploring possibilities for prevention programs through
their corporate social responsibility programs.

                                              30


(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative):

As previously mentioned, this was the first project ever to involve Bank finance for ART.
Although it stirred a fair share of controversy at inception, it has unquestionably proven a
success, and enabled Barbados to establish an early and positive example that helped
inspired later donors and new agencies to make HIV treatment a worldwide priority. As
such, this could also be considered a demonstration project whose outcomes have far
exceeded its own PDOs. Barbados and the Bank should take pride in having been
catalysts for a global undertaking that has thus far saved more than two million lives.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops.

A survey of beneficiary satisfaction and a stakeholder workshop were not carried out
before loan closing. However, information about knowledge, attitudes and practices has
been collected on a biennial basis among youth by the Ministry of Education's Division
of Youth Affairs. Consultation meetings with implementing partners were held regularly
during the preparation and implementation process of the new HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan.
In addition, social and institutional assessments were carried out as part of the preparation
of the new project to identify beneficiaries and their needs, assess the institutional
arrangements in place to fill those needs, and identify necessary institutional changes for
successful project implementation. In general, stakeholders are satisfied with their level
of participation, especially during the preparation of the new Strategic Plan.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The risk to the development outcome is negligible to low for the following reasons:
        Increased Prevention Capacity. The initial awareness campaigns were
        successful, and a BCC Strategy was approved and is under the initial stages of
        implementation. The second project would focus on prevention strategies better
        targeting the drivers of the epidemic and key groups at higher risk of HIV/AIDS.
        Limited increase in recurrent costs due to treatment. Barbados obtains ARVs
        at low cost, and their cost is about US $2 million a year, which is a small fraction
        of the MH budget (about $350.6 million in FY07).
        Financial support for the National AIDS Program. The Barbados Cabinet has
        already mainstreamed the annual budgets for most project interventions, and is
        able to finance about 70% of its activities. A follow-on project is currently under
        development, which would continue to provide technical and financial support to
        the program, and would address some persistent weaknesses in program activities,
        increasing the likelihood of sustainability.
        Increased institutional Capacity. NHAC main role was to institutionalize all of
        the program activities within line ministries and civil society organizations, work
        which achieved significant success during the project's implementation. The MH
        and MES were the main implementers of the project, and both have
        institutionalized the interventions into their regular program activities.

                                             31


        Improved M&E system. The improved M&E system will allow the NHAC to
        keep track of activities, measure results, address HIV in an ever increasingly
        efficient manner, and base on evidence further strategic development.
        Increased HR capacity. The project attempted to incorporate best practices from
        around the globe in project activities, and as such staff received training in M&E,
        BCC and other aspects of running a national HIV/AIDS program. It is highly
        likely that many of these trained professionals will continue to work in the NAP
        and will share knowledge with co-workers.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance: Satisfactory

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry: Satisfactory

Overall, the technical, institutional and financial aspects of the project design were
appropriate. Project objectives were responsive to and supportive of the National
HIV/AIDS strategy, and the project was structured in accordance with a standard Multi-
Country AIDS Program (MAP) for the Caribbean Region. The design also followed
lessons from other MAP Projects and other sectors. The project design team carried out
consultations, and prepared detailed plans for project start-up. However, in hindsight,
based on knowledge accumulated since the project was prepared, the design could have
been strengthened by: (i) development of a prevention approach for key groups at higher
risk of infection; (ii) closer relation between surveillance, monitoring and evaluation,
prevention and treatment; (iii) early development of M&E, with more specific indicators;
and (iv) inclusion of a capacity building program, particularly for CSO.

(b) Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory

As previously mentioned, a QAG Panel carried out in 2006 rated the overall quality of
supervision of this project as Moderately Satisfactory (3 on the 6 point rating scale). It
rated the Focus on Development Effectiveness and Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and
Processes as Satisfactory (2) and the Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects and
Candor and quality of ISR as Moderately Satisfactory (3). The Bank carried out regular
supervision missions, with emphasis on the provision of health services, M&E and
institutional arrangements. The Bank supervision team included sector, safeguards and
fiduciary specialists, who provided technical support and assistance to the program's
implementing partners, and identified and addressed critical fiduciary, safeguards and
M&E issues in a timely manner. During the life of the project, task leadership changed
twice. The first change occurred in the beginning of project implementation. When the
second TTL took over in 2004, identified weaknesses were addressed, including
implementation delays, safeguards concerns, procurement difficulties, and most
importantly, development of a BCC strategy and M&E. The second change of TTL
occurred less than six months before loan closing, as project activities were being
evaluated and the follow-on project was being prepared.

                                              32



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Despite some weaknesses in project design and supervision, which were identified by
MTR and corrected during project implementation, Bank financial and technical
assistance has been contributing to the achievement of significant results in preventing
and controlling the epidemic in Barbados.

5.2 Borrower Performance: Satisfactory

(a) Government Performance: Satisfactory

The Government of Barbados (GoB) is fully committed to containing the epidemic.
Extensive work has been done to put in place the UN "Three Ones" principles:
Counterpart funding was available as planned throughout the project. There are areas in
which Government performance could, however, have been improved. In addition to the
weak M&E framework, the QAG identified the failure of the Government to give priority
to implementation of the prevention component and implement an appropriate medical
waste management program, and weak arrangements for procurement on the part of the
GOB and the Bank. These problems were inherent in the project design and were
exacerbated by inadequate attention in early supervision efforts. Many of these issues
were first fully recognized at the time of the MTR, which provided a roadmap for
subsequent supervision.

(b) Implementing Agencies Performance: Satisfactory

The Program called for eight key line Ministries and Government Information Service to
establish HIV/AIDS Core groups with responsibility for designing and implementing
HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities within their constituencies. Results of the
work of line ministries are significant, with the exception of better involvement of key
groups at high risk; in addition, community health services and home care had not
effectively begun by loan closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Despite its weaknesses, Barbados has an impressive National HIV/AIDS Program in
place. Most deficiencies were corrected before loan closing (BCC Strategy, M&E
Framework in place, etc), and the remaining ones (focus on key groups at higher risk,
seroprevalence surveys, etc) will be addressed by a follow-on project.

                              Implementing Agencies Performance

        15 ministries report to NHAC on HIV/AIDS activities.
        IEC is well organized with several ministries being active. These agencies succeeded in
        increasing public awareness through mass media campaigns on various aspects of
        HIV/AIDS, including risks and protection measures, promotion of safer sex practices and
        risk reduction, advocacy for human rights protection, abolition of discrimination practices

                                               33


        and learning to live with PLHIV4. KAP surveys have confirmed this success5,6,7.
        The MHNI assumed responsibility for the procurement and distribution of condoms for
        the program. Condoms were distributed to all agencies involved in the fight against HIV
        that had trained educators.
        Prevention and control of STIs was developed and scaled up.
        The prevention of mother to child transmission has been successful, with a 80% reduction
        in HIV transmission from mother to child.
        There are no reported cases of infection through transfusions at present.
        VCT reached over 20,000 people by 2007.
        Laboratory and pharmacy services installed equipment and trained five laboratory
        technicians to perform HIV tests. Capacity now exceeds that required for Barbados' own
        use and may be available to assist programs in other Caribbean territories.
        The Barbados Drug Service (BDS) has been upgraded to provide a satellite pharmacy at
        the LRU for PLHIV.
        ART coverage is substantial.



6. Lessons Learned

Lessons learned from the implementation of this first project, including the results of the
QAG, and from other HIV and AIDS projects in the Caribbean and elsewhere were
considered in the design of the second project.

        The QAG recommended that the NHAC put more emphasis on a strategic
        approach aiming at targeting the most critical problems rather than at
        comprehensive problem-solving. This would involve a focus on improving (i)
        project monitoring, (ii) prevention efforts, including VCT, BCC, condom
        distribution and fighting stigma; (iii) financial management; and (iv) capacity in
        these areas. In addition, the lessons below were taken into account.
        The countries that have been most successful in dealing with HIV/AIDS - Brazil,
        Thailand and Uganda in the 1990s - are those that have confronted the issue head-
        on, advocating safe sex without embarrassment.                 Barbados' approach to
        prevention has resulted in an unfinished agenda in creating dialogue on issues of
        sexual practice in general, sexual activities among key populations at higher risk
        and adolescents, and the position of women in society. Lessons learned in other
        countries indicate that this can be done in a manner that is culturally appropriate
        and respectful of local traditions.
        In Jamaica and elsewhere in the Caribbean, there has been an increasing
        awareness that enabling environments are critical to the reduction of transmission
        of HIV/AIDS and increased access to treatment and care. This includes policy
        and legislative changes and workplace and sector-specific policies and programs,
        to safeguard privacy, and confidentiality and address stigma and discrimination.


4Government of Barbados HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program. Mid-Term Review. Dr. Beverly
Miller and Dr. Robert Crown
5MEYAS 2001. Report on the National KAPB Survey on HIV/AIDS.
6MEYAS 2004. Report on the Secondary School Behavioral Surveillance Survey.
7MEYAS 2006. Report on the Behavioral Surveillance Survey.

                                       34


Popular figures, particularly those admired by adolescents, need to be engaged in
speaking openly about the risk of HIV/AIDS, how to protect themselves, and the
importance of knowing their status and seeking appropriate care.
HIV/AIDS prevention campaigns designed to reach particular groups have not
significantly affected sexual practices. Part of the challenge lies with the fact that
key populations at higher risk have to be better involved in the prevention and
control work; and a comprehensive training program in behavior change
communication (BCC) was in place just before project closing.
PAHO research on HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean indicates that for PLHIV,
especially women, there are considerable barriers and delays (averaging 16
months) between time of diagnosis and treatment. Half of the women surveyed
who were currently on ART were placed on treatment immediately following
their first visit, further confirming the late presentation to care.
In an effort to guarantee the highest quality of care for PLHIV in Barbados, these
services were centralized in the Ladymeade Reference Unit. Although this
centralized strategy resulted in high quality care, it also stigmatized the clinic to
the extent that PLHIV are reported to avoid going there. The second project
would decentralize HIV/AIDS care and build a quality assurance system to
maintain high levels of quality of care.
Barbados was the first country in the world in which the Bank financed ARV, and
in hindsight this was a very positive decision. As the number of patients requiring
ARV will continue to grow, as incidence of HIV in the short-term and survival
will continue to increase, the second project would also finance ARV, as ARV
represents a relatively small percentage of the NHAC budget (less than 20%).
Separation of biomedical waste is an important public health issue and should be
continuously supported. Capacity building on waste management should be
continuous due to attrition and the difficulty of maintaining staff up to speed on
the latest developments.
NHAC deserves recognition for its effort developing a National M&E Framework.
With the improved M&E from this project, there will be better epidemiological
data to assist in determining and targeting key populations at higher risk. This
will include a greater emphasis on the drivers of the epidemic, including unsafe
sex with multiple partners, the role of women in society, adolescents' lack of
access to correct information on sexuality and STIs, and the abuse of alcohol and
marijuana.
Three assessment strategies could help NHAC and its implementing agencies
(IPs) to establish a vision of an even stronger and more robust HIV/AIDS
program. First, the collection of quantitative and qualitative baseline information
on various population groups would focus NHAC and IPs' attention on the needs
of beneficiary populations. Second, an institutional and training needs assessment
would determine whether the IPs had the technical skills and materials to respond
to those needs. Third, an in-depth audit of financial and administrative systems
would focus the attention on whether NHAC and IPs could sustain HIV
prevention and control activities over the long term. These three assessments
would help NHAC and IPs to identify project management capacities and

                                             35


       weaknesses, and findings could prompt planning of activities to enhance financial
       and administrative systems.
       The success of a program is often directly linked to the energy, thought, and hard
       work of the people and organizations working on the program.                The core
       implementing partners have been the MH, MES, MST, MPW and MTI, each of
       which had specific functions and responsibilities vis-à-vis specific key groups at
       higher risk. Other agencies, which were mostly in charge of prevention, impact
       mitigation and working with special groups, have had a more hesitant
       participation style and worked with smaller populations.           The process for
       selecting partners needs to be kept transparent. It is essential that there be a good
       fit between new technical interventions and the implementing partner mission and
       mandate. Each IP needs to be provided not only with information about the
       expectations, requirements, and resource commitments of the new technical
       programming (e.g., advocacy; BCC; etc), but also on the appropriate
       methodologies and technical support to accomplish the expected results. It is
       important to keep the process accountable by making available the technical
       guidelines and administrative criteria for quality of proposals, and also to monitor
       their achievements based on standardized indicators.
       A human resources development policy is needed. There are not enough human
       resources trained and working in M&E in Barbados. Comprehensive training
       programs in M&E need to be designed and implemented. Improved human
       resources would allow NHAC, MH, MES and other agencies to support and
       institutionalize the work that is being carried out by the implementing partners. In
       Barbados, it often can take a year or more for a new public position to be created
       and filled and the GOB often relies on consultants in the meantime.         Measures
       have to be taken to make sure that the work of consultants is properly documented
       for future reference and that their knowledge is institutionalized.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

Comments from the Borrower indicate that the first project sought to scale up diagnosis,
treatment and care with secondary emphasis on prevention efforts among key populations
at higher risk, while the ICR assumes that the project should have focused on key
populations since its inception. Although the ICR recognizes the achievements of the
Barbados AIDS Program on diagnosis, treatment and care, the lack of focus in key
populations at higher risk was considered a weakness in project design and
implementation, which should have been corrected by mid-term. This will now be a
major focus for the follow up operation.

(b) Cofinanciers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

                                            36



                         Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
          Components                                                     Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)  Estimate (USD
                                                        millions)         Appraisal

Prevention and Control of
HIV/AIDS Transmission                     5.675              3.550           62.6

Diagnosis, Treatment and Care for
HIV/AIDS                                 14.267            24.678            173

Management and Institutional
Strenghtening                             2.660              9.565           360

            Total Baseline Cost          22.602             37.793          167.2
             Total Project Costs         22.602             37.793
Front-end fee IBRD                         .150              0.151
Unallocated                                .891
     Total Financing Required            23.643             37.944          160.5

(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of     Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing    (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)     millions)
Borrower                                            8.50          22.8          268
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                     15.15         15.15         100

                                              37



                    Annex 2. Outputs by PDO and by Component

Achievements of Component 1: Prevention and Control of HIV/AIDS Transmission

(i)      Key Groups at high risk: Moderately Satisfactory. The MHNI has a project
with sex workers, and CSO work with men who have sex with men and other key groups
at higher risk of infection. However, there was limited involvement of key groups at
higher risk of HIV on preventive interventions. In general, with regard to prevention,
there was more focus on IEC for the general population than on outreach work with key
groups at higher risk of HIV.

(ii)     Adolescents in and out of school: Moderately Satisfactory. The number of
primary schools providing life skills training increased under the project. The Ministry of
Education's Division of Youth Affairs (DYA) carried out outreach activities with the
population of 15-29 years of age. Activities included (i) sports organized by Youth
Commissioners; (ii) performing arts such as music, community theater and poetry; and
(iii) skills development & training, geared to improve job opportunities and income. All
outreach activities included a strong HIV education component and peer-to-peer support.
At the school level, the Ministry facilitated HIV awareness sensitization sessions for
primary and secondary school teachers as well as ancillary staff.            The MES also
developed and included age-appropriate "HIV Modules" in the primary and secondary
school Health and Family Life Education curricula.               The DYA conducted HIV
Sensitization Session among Parent-Teacher Associations. The DYA carried out three
Knowledge, Attitudes, Behavior and Practice (KABP) surveys in 2001, 2003 and 2005 on
the 15-29, 10-18 and 15-24 population cohorts, respectively. The studies did not use the
same questionnaires and the operational definitions of the indicators were not
standardized, so assessment of trends over time of knowledge, attitudes and the adoption
of protective behaviors are not consistent.        Nevertheless, DYA staff indicate that
knowledge of HIV has improved to levels of more than 95%, but practices such as
initiation of sexual activity, condom use and multiple partners have not changed
significantly.

(iii)    Information Education and Communication: Satisfactory. Attitudes towards
PLHIV changed positively during the life of the project. Recognizing the need for a
paradigm shift in HIV, a national Behavior Change Communication (BCC) Strategy for
Barbados was developed with Bank assistance, and it was recently approved. The process
itself helped raising awareness with the result that BCC strategy recommendations have
been integrated into the National Strategic Plan, and the Government tripled its budget
for BCC. Barbados is one of the few countries in the region with an explicit BCC strategy
and the first with a BCC strategy that focuses on youth and women. The BCC strategy
would be implemented under the new proposed project. IEC activities were mostly the
responsibility of NHAC through sensitization and training workshops, electronic and
print media campaigns, billboards, exhibitions, health fairs, "branding" events, press-
relations, promotional materials, condom distribution, etc., in collaboration with public
and private sectors, civil society, multilateral and bilateral institutions.

                                               38


(iv)    Condom Distribution and Use: Moderately Satisfactory. Condom use among
MSM is reported to have increased during project implementation8. However; condom
use, especially among most vulnerable groups, is low. Condom distribution through
social marketing, peer groups and other means of free distribution are the main
responsibility of the MH. Condom distribution through the public sector represents
approximately 1% of the total condoms distribution through all sectors. This quantity
does not satisfy the overall need for the key groups at high risk of infection and condom
use promotion. Officers from the Division of Youth Affairs also indicated that condom
availability to cover their programmatic and promotional needs is insufficient. It was also
noted that the tourism industry has generally been reluctant to promote condom use in
some hotels.

(v)     Prevention and Control of STI: Satisfactory. The MH has made an effort to
have STI case management as a main component of disease prevention. STI surveillance,
limited in the past, will be included as an important component of the overall disease
surveillance strategy under revision. The MH developed and implemented STI case
management protocols and guidelines in 2006, which are gradually being
institutionalized in all health facilities. STI diagnosis is mostly done through laboratory
tests.

(vi)    Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMCT): Highly Satisfactory.
Antenatal prevalence rates among pregnant women fluctuate below 2 cases per year. In
2006, 37 HIV positive pregnant women delivered newborns, but only one child was
diagnosed as HIV positive. Ante-natal care service is close to 100% in Barbados, and
HIV screening rates have been as high as 93% in 2000 and 83% in 2006. However, data
that was previously available for both the public and private sectors is now only reliably
available in the public sector. The successful program is currently being strengthened.
PMTCT guidelines were drafted in 2006 with the assistance of CHART. With the
PMCTCT guidelines, a Policy document on PMCT approved by the Cabinet in 2008, and
a PMTCT training curricula, PMTCT training will be rolled out in 2008.

(vii)   Control of Laboratories and Blood Supply: Highly Satisfactory. No HIV
cases have been reported due to blood transfusion.

Achievements of Component 2: Diagnosis, Treatment, and Care for HIV/AIDS

(i)     Strengthening Voluntary Counseling and Confidential HIV Testing:
Satisfactory. The percentage of VCT increased 17% from 2002 to 2006. The total
number of people tested and counseled between 2001 and 2007 was over 20,000. The
table below depicts the number of pre-and-post counseling, testing and those who
received the test results carried out by the MH VCT program during the five years of the
project. All polyclinics have VCT services, trained personnel and tests are carried out at



8NHAC (in preparation). The Barbados Men's Lifestyle Survey, 2007.

                                                                               39


the QEH main laboratory facilities, also facilitating disease surveillance. The community
voluntary counseling and testing program, including training of more than 100 new
counselors, was launched and expanded; a testing laboratory was established at
Ladymeade Reference Unit, and VCT training has been institutionalized.


Activities                                         Years                                                                                             Total
                                                   2001             2002               2003              2004         2005              2006
Persons trained in VCT                             -                -                  -                 40           47                28           115
VCT sites established                              -                -                  3                 4            4                 0            10
Total Counseled                Male                                                                      1,446        1,813             1,419        4,678
and Tested (all                Female              -                -                  -                 2,559        2,652             3,265        2,652
program
interventions)                 Total                                                                     4,005        4,465             4,684        13,154

HIV       Positive             Male                112              107                106               114          77                -            516
(with the VCT                  Female              80               62                 72                78           68                -            360
program              and       Unknown             18               15                 6                 4            2                 -            45
before)                        Total               210              184                184               196          147               -            921
Received           Post-                                                                                 1,381        1,754             1,376        4,511
test   counseling              Female              -                -                  -                 2,536        2,625             3,238        8,399
and results                    Total                                                                     3,917        4,379             4,614        12,910


However, in spite of program efforts, the general population is not accessing VCT
services significantly. This is of special concern for key groups at higher risk of infection,
such as sex workers, beach boys, men who have sex with men and prisoners, where
prevalence rates are expected to be much higher than among the general population.
Behavioral surveys show that many Barbadians have taken a test (46%) at least once but
less than 10% of those who practice inconsistent condom use and have multiple partners
seek tests for their purpose of their health maintenance.


                               Percentage of Male PLHIV with Simultaneous, Delayed and Deferred AIDS diagnosis by
                                                                   period of HIV diagnosis
         60
                                                         56.6            Simultaneous              Delayed           Deferred               55.3


                                                                                           50.2
         50             48.0

                                        45.0



         40                                                                                               38.1

                                                                                                                             34.5

          geat                                                         32.1

         30cenreP



         20



                                                                11.3                               11.7
                                                                                                                                    10.2
         10
                                7.0




          0
                             87 to 1991                     1992 to 1996                       1997 to 2001                     2002 to 2006

                 Note: Adding the simultaneous and Delayed bars represents the total proportion of PLHIV that were diagosed AIDS within 1 year of HIV




Barbadian males access VCT services at a later stage than females, and this pattern has
been maintained throughout the epidemic. In 2003, the median CD4 count of males was

                                                                             40


40 cell/mm3 and for females was 140 cells per mm3, while in 2007 it was 254 for men
and 411 for women. However, the proportion of PLHIV that know their status more than
one year before progression to AIDS is increasing steadily in both genders. A sign of
slow yet steady success of the VCT program against the stigma of HIV testing is the rise
in the proportion of males whose AIDS diagnoses is deferred from the diagnosis of HIV
infection. However, the proportion of males (39%) whose first test is an AIDS diagnosis
compared to females (25%) is still quite high.


                           Percentage of Female PLHIV with Simultaneous, Delayed and Deferred AIDS diagnosis by
                                                                 period of HIV diagnosis

        70

                        Simultaneous           Delayed           Deferred                                                                 65.0

                                                                                                        61.4

        60


                                                                     51.4

        50                            48.8


                      42.7

        40gea                                          37.2

          entcr
        30Pe                                                                             28.7

                                                                                                                          25.3



        20


                                                              11.4
                                                                                                  9.9
        10                    8.6                                                                                                 9.7




         0
                           87 to 1991                     1992 to 1996                       1997 to 2001                    2002 to 2006

               Note: Adding the simultaneous and Delayed bars represents the total proportion of PLHIV that were diagosed AIDS within 1 year of HIV




(ii)   Strengthening Laboratory Capacity: Highly Satisfactory.                                                                        Both staff and
equipment were to be upgraded under the subcomponent. The percentage of lab testing
increased 22% from 2002 to 2006. Laboratory capacity was built up, with the Ladymeade
Reference Unit Lab being able to test all identified PLHIV for viral load and CD4. The
LRU is making arrangements to initiate testing of viral resistance to ART drugs. The MH
has installed equipment (flow cytometer for CD4, and a viral load machine and reagents
for viral load testing), trained laboratory technicians for performing the tests and quality
management (2 years diploma), and renovated workspaces.                                                                  The project provided
equipment and reagents. To date, the QEH, LRU and three private laboratories are fully
functioning. All were evaluated in 2006 and are waiting for international accreditation.
All laboratories have standardized their procedures through a procedures manual.

(iii)  Pharmacy Strengthening: Highly Satisfactory. The project aimed to introduce
11 ARV drugs. At loan closing, the drug dispensaries at LRU and QEH have more than
15 ARV drugs and a wide range of drugs for treating OIs. The MH has negotiated the
prices of ARV and has been able to lower the cost of ART per patient.

(iv)   Strengthening Infrastructure for Community Health Services: Satisfactory.
The MH trained more than 100 counselors to provide VCT services at the community
level. However, the program is not fully integrated into the existing health system.

                                            41


Follow-up rates and rates of patients tested who return for results still needs further
strengthening. The MH plans to decentralize treatment to some polyclinics starting in
2008.

(v)    Expanding the Infrastructure for Treatment of Opportunistic Infections and
Introduction of ART: Highly Satisfactory. In 2007, 1,102 patients were registered at
the LRU and 615 were on ART. A group of PLHIV is treated in the private sector, and
some of them are showing signs of virologic failure on second and third line therapies,
which suggests viral resistance. The LRU provides care to PLHIV at all stages of the
HIV and AIDS continuum. Care at the Unit is provided by a multidisciplinary team that
includes:

       · Medical interventions focused on disease management, specifically the
           provision of ART. All approved drugs are free of charge to Barbadian
           citizens;
       · VCT to promote adherence to ART and other medications;
       · An in-house pharmacy that provides all medications needed;
       · A community outreach and domiciliary care component;
       · A case management information system that tracks individual patient progress
           and facilitates M&E.

Achievements of Component 3: Management and Institutional Strengthening

(i)    Management Strengthening: Satisfactory. The Barbados project adopted a
multi-sectoral approach that included line ministries, CSO and the private sector, which
have increased the awareness and sensitization of their constituencies over the life of the
project. NHAC has facilitated the coordination and implementation of the project through
the various implementing partners, has managed the project resources, and has served as
the   main    counterpart   of   all   financing    and    technical   assistance    groups.
NHAC's role as the nation's clearinghouse of information and training in the scaling-up
of the multi-sectoral approach was strengthened.

Of 18 Ministries, 15 report annually to NHAC on their respective HIV prevention
programs. Each Ministry formed an HIV Core Group which is responsible for
implementing HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities within their target populations.
Some ministries had clearer roles, for example the Ministry of Education had very active
roles with the youth both in and out of school, and carrying out population-based surveys.
Also, the Ministry of Health has accomplished most of the activities that it committed to
carry out in terms of prevention and care and treatment.           The Ministry of Social
Transformation scaled up its PLHIV social services programs.

The National HIV/AIDS Commission has done considerable work with its civil society
partners - CARE Barbados, United Gays and Lesbians Against AIDS Barbados,
Barbados Evangelical Association, AIDS Society of Barbados - over the past two years
with considerable results. As a result of these efforts, there has been greater civil society
involvement and support from civil society for the National AIDS Program. The number

                                            42


of AIDS-related COS reporting annually to NHAC increased from 4 in 2002 to 11 in
2007. The percentage of enterprises targeted by the Project, which have HIV/AIDS
policies and programs in the workplace, has increased from 5% in 2003 to 75% in 2007.

(ii)   Project Monitoring and Evaluation: Moderately Satisfactory. Monitoring and
evaluation systems were only partly established during the first project. Monitoring the
epidemic in Barbados goes back to the mid 1980s. All HIV testing for the country has
been carried out by the QEH, which is the main source of information for sentinel
surveillance. Sentinel surveillance data is being recorded manually at QEH and entered
into a database at MH. Epidemiological surveillance captures HIV cases through passive
detection at ANC clinics and the blood-bank. SHIP is a PLHIV database at the LRU,
which includes patient information from the time of enrollment, as well as care and
treatment. The MH does receive information from all health services, but has not
structured a health management information system. With the assistance of CAREC and
WHO/PAHO, the MH is strengthening the disease surveillance program to structure a
robust and comprehensive system. Seroprevalence and KAP surveys will be carried out
under the new project to enable NHAC to make strategic decisions based on robust
evidence.

                                            43


Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The initial economic analysis, which did not take into account the costs and benefits of
ART, indicated that the expected rates of return were high (62.3% in the base scenario)
and quite robust to changes in key parameters. In 2001, Barbados spent about US$8
million for drugs in the public sector, which represented 10% of public health
expenditures. The estimated yearly cost of the ARV was expected to increase Barbados'
expenditures for drugs by 30% or about US$2.6 million. A preliminary estimate of the
impact of public sector financing of ARV drugs at negotiated prices would be to raise
public expenditures by about 2%.

The economic and financial analysis of the new project reaffirms these expectations. The
net present value of the benefits of the new project were estimated at US$295 million,
with an internal rate of return of over 85 percent over ten years. These benefits would be
due to savings in hospital, outpatient, and general treatment and support costs of
prevented infections, as well as to the indirect gains of increased productivity due to
improved health and longer lives. The assessment of the long term sustainability of the
activities supported by the Bank loan shows that, at the end of the project, the GOB
would be assuming total new recurrent costs of less then 2 percent of the current public
national health sector expenditure. Given the stability of the Barbados economy and its
projected growth over the next five years, this increase in recurrent costs is sustainable.

                                          44



Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
 Patricio Marquez         Lead Health Specialist            ECSHD Task Team Leader
Supervision/ICR
  Joana Godinho           Sr. Health Spec.                  LCSHH Task Team Leader
  Christoph Kurowski      Sr. Health Specialist             LCSHH Task Team Leader
 Marcelo Castrillo        Health Specialist                 HDNGA M&E
  Juliana Victor-Ahuchogu Monitoring & Evaluation Spec.     HDNGA M&E
  Gunars H. Platais       Sr. Environmental Econ.           LCSEN Safeguards
  Judith C. Morroy        Procurement Analyst                LCSPT Procurement
  Norma M. Rodriguez      Procurement Analyst                LCSPT Procurement

  Emmanuel N. Njomo       Consultant                        LCSFM    Financial
                                                                     Management
 Maria Lourdes Noel       Sr. Program Assistant             LCSHH TA
 Samia Benbouzid          Program Assistant                 CESGM TA
 Que P. Bui               Procurement Assistant             LCSHH TA

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY02                                                                   1.78
  FY03                                                                   1.74
  FY04                                                                   7.20
  FY05                                                                   1.17
  FY06                                                                   2.12
                         Total:                                         14.01
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                         3                        55.47
  FY03                                         2                        25.88
  FY04                                         9                        54.59
  FY05                                        11                        56.43
  FY06                                        21                        87.88
  FY07                                        18                        94.35
  FY08                                        13                        76.78
                         Total:               77                       451.38

                                                  45



Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

A survey of beneficiary satisfaction was not carried out before project closing. However,
information about knowledge, attitudes and practices has been collected on a biennial
basis among youth by the Division of Youth Affairs.                      Consultation meetings with
implementing partners were held regularly during the preparation and implementation
process of the new HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan. In addition, social and institutional
assessments were carried out as part of the preparation of the new project to identify
beneficiaries and their needs, assess the institutional arrangements in place to fill those
needs, and identify necessary institutional changes for successful project implementation.

In Barbados, key populations at higher risk include the groups indicated below. In
addition, tourists, foreign sex workers visiting the island as tourists, and temporary
foreign residents (owners of holiday houses, workers in outsourcing and regional trading
companies, tourism and construction workers, exchange students, etc) make up a large
percentage of the population living in the island.

               Estimates of size of Key Populations at Higher Risk in Barbados 2007
                                                                            %              HIV
              Highly Vulnerable Group                 Number           Population       Prevalence
     Female Sex Workers        (estimate)9           400-1,600          0.6-2.24%           NA
     Male Sex Workers                                    NA                NA               NA
     MSM (estimate)                                     1,296              1%               NA
     Prisoners                                          1,016              0.4              NA
     Substance users                                     NA                NA               NA
     PLHIV                                              2,100             0.8 %            100%
     People with disabilities (2000)                   13,142              4.6              NA
     Single,  Unemployed       and   Dependent          4,200              1.5              NA
     Women (SUDW)
     Youth 15-24 years old                             34,100             12.3              1.3


Work has started with some key populations, particularly SW, MSM and youth, but much
needs to be done to extend preventive and treatment services to them.                         Available
evidence shows that although some advances have been made in behavior change, the
gap between knowledge and behavior is still large. There is a need to develop a more
focused and systematic strategy to increase the levels of active and meaningful
participation of vulnerable groups in design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation
of prevention work through workshops, one-on-one meetings, focus groups or other
appropriate methods.




9The project economic and financial analysis estimated the size of the female sex workers population as
0.6% of the female population 15-49 years, which probably underestimates the size of this group.

                                                46


             Key populations at higher risk and Government and Civil Society Partners
   Key Groups              Government Partner                     Civil Society Partner
  SWs              MH                                     National Organization of Women
                   Welfare Department                     UGLAAB
                   Bureau of Gender Affairs
  MSM              MH                                     UGLAAB
                   Welfare Department
                   Bureau of Gender Affairs
                   Ministry of Community Development
                   and Culture
  Drug users       National Council of Substance Abuse    Centre for Counseling and Addiction
                   MH                                     Support Alternatives (CASA)
                                                          Verdun House
  Prisoners        Ministry of Home Affairs (education    None
                   and VCT)
                   MH
  PLHIV            MH                                     CARE Barbados
                   Ladymeade Reference Center
                   Queen Elizabeth Hospital
  People with      National Disabilities Unit             BARNOD
  Disabilities     Welfare Department
                   MH
  Youth            Ministry of Education                  HIV Community Committees
                   Division of Youth Affairs and Sports   Teachers' Union
  Single           Bureau of Gender Affairs               National Organization of Women
  unemployed       Welfare Department
  women            Ministry of Social Care, Constituency
                   Empowerment and Urban
                   Development
  Tourists and     Ministry of Tourism                    Barbados Hotel and Tourism
  tourism staff                                           Association


To address the needs of the key populations at higher risk, the National HIV/AIDS
Program will:
   Carry out studies to identify the size, HIV prevalence and behavior of each group, as
   well as gather other data and information about key populations at higher risk that can
   inform HIV planning and policy making.
   Carry out a continuous compilation and analysis of existing initiatives by
   governmental and non governmental organizations that work with key populations at
   higher risk.
   Continue to advocate for decriminalization of sex work and homosexuality, as
   existing discriminating laws have far reaching consequences in terms of identifying
   and reaching key populations at higher risk, learning about their behavior and
   determining prevalence, which prevents policy makers from formulating targeted
   programs and plans.
   Develop a strategy that encourages the active and meaningful participation of key
   populations at higher risk in design, implementation, M&E of prevention work to
   ensure a more structural and continuous participation of these groups.

                                  47


Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A

                                             48


Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

·       The NHAC finds the original draft ICR prepared and submitted by Dr. Marcelo
Castrillo to be an accurate and fair assessment of the Project.
·       There is a tendency within the document to re-interpret the original project
description resulting in inaccurate statements.
·       There is a tendency to merge the facts about what occurred during the Project 1
with what occurred during post-project 1. Draft ICR frequently assesses Project 1 based
on what is planned for Project 2. This negates the possibility of a truly fair assessment.
For instance, project sought to scale up diagnosis, treatment and care with secondary
emphasis on key populations, yet assessments seemed to based on the belief that Project
1 should at the inception focused on key populations instead of diagnosis, treatment and
care.

Unfortunately, it is not possible at this point to report on the Bank's performance during
the initial Project negotiation stage as the original persons involved are no longer
associated with the NAP. The type of assistance rendered by the Bank in the last three
years of the Project was vastly different from what was received during the first three (3)
years of the Project. In the latter three years of the Project, every effort was made to
transfer knowledge and build capacity with Project Coordinating Unit staff and key
partners in areas of need, i.e., building ownership at the country level.

The National AIDS Program has found the Bank to be helpful particularly in assisting the
Program with:

·       Disbursement challenges, resulting in the reformulation of the disbursement
categories making it easier to access funds:
·       Provision of technical assistance in the areas of behavior change communication
and monitoring and evaluation resulting in the strengthening of Project components; and
·       A one-year no cost extension to facilitate complete disbursement of all monies
under the Project.

Despite favorable performances by the Bank in some areas, there are some administrative
issues which the Bank needs to resolve if it is to effectively assist countries with project
implementation. In the case of Barbados, the NAP has flagged:

·       Lack of clarity with respect to satisfaction of Bank requirements related to project
triggers, for example, the environmental safeguard policy (civil works component).
·       Late notification of mandatory Bank requirements in respect of environmental
issues such as pesticide categories (civil works component).

                                    49


Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                                         50


Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Barbados HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Program.          Mid-Term
Review. Dr. Beverly Miller and Dr. Robert Crown. Barbados: Bridgetown

Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports 2001. Report on the National KAPB
Survey on HIV/AIDS. ISBN 976-8079-31-2. Barbados: Bridgetown.

Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports 2003/2004. Report on the Secondary
School Behavioral Surveillance Survey. Barbados: Bridgetown.

Ministry of Education, Youth Affairs and Sports 2005/2006. Report on the Behavioral
Surveillance Survey. Barbados: Bridgetown.

MHNI 2008. HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report January-June 2007.

NHAC 2007. The HIV/AIDS Situation in Barbados, 1984 to 2006. "Looking back to
move forward." Barbados: Bridgetown.

NHAC (under preparation). The Barbados Men's Lifestyle Survey 2007.

The World Bank 2003. Barbados ­ Caribbean HIV/AIDS (P075220) - Seventh Quality of
Supervision Assessment (QSA7). Draft Final Report. Washington DC.

                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 33369

         59°45'                                                                                       59°30'
                                                                                                                                      BARBADOS

                                                                                                                                              SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS

                                                                                                                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
                           Archer'sBay     North Point                                                                                        MAIN ROADS
13°30'                                                                                                    13°30'                              PARISH BOUNDARIES

                            Crab Hill

                               Spring Hall
        Harrison Point
                                   S T. L U C Y                                                                              This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                  Gay'sCove                                                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                             shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                             Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                             endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.



                                       Portland


             SixMen's Bay                                   Greenland

          Speightstown       S T. P E T E R

                                                      S T. A N D R E W                                                                           AT L A N T I C
                                                          Bruce Vale                                                                                 O C E A N

                                        Westmoreland   Mount Hillaby                         Bathsheba
                                                         (336 m)
                            S T. J A M E S
                                                    Hillaby         S T. J O S E P H
                                                                                                                    CongorBay



                  Holetown
                                              S T. T H O M A S                     Blackmans                            Coach Consett Bay
                                                                                                                        Hill
                                            Bennetts                                               S T. J O H N
13°15'                                                                                                                                                  Ragged Point                       13°15'

                                                                                                                                 Thicket
               Payne'sBay                                                 Belair

                              Prospect                             S T. G E O R G E
                                      Warrens
                Freshwater                                                                                           S T. P H I L I P
                          Bay

                                    S T. M I C H A E L               Bulkely                                                                 Workhall
                                                                                                                  Six Cross
                                                                                  Turnpike
                                                                                   ur                                Roads

                                                                                                                                                     Crane  Bay

                                                                                                                                                Crane
                      BRIDGETOWN                                                  C H R I S T

                               CarlisleBay                                       C H U R C H
                                                                  Sargeant

                            Needhams Point


                                                         Saint                    Oistins
                                                     Lawrence              OistinsBay                    Long Bay


                                                                                         South Point




                      BARBADOS                                             AT L A N T I C
                                                                              O C E A N
13°00'                                                                                                                                                                                     13°00'

                                                                                                                              0      1      2       3 Kilometers



                                                                                                                              0          1           2          3 Miles

         59°45'                                                                                       59°30'

                                                                                                                                                                                  DECEMBER 2004

