Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22743-TA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR24.6 MILLION
(US$ 31.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
FOREST CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
January 25, 2002
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings (TSh)
TSh 1000 = US$1.09
US$1.00 = TSh 917
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEPF      Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund  LEAT       Lawyers Environmental Action Trust
CFP       Catchment Forest Project              LKEMP      Lower Kihansi Environmental
Management Project
CI        Conservation Intemational             MNRT       Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism
CSD       Civil Service Department              NFP        National Forest Program
Danida    Danish International Development      NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
Assistance
DIDC      Department of Intemational Development  NORAD    Norwegian Agency for Development
Cooperation, Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
Government of Finland
DOF       Danish Ornithological Foundation       PDF       Project Development Facility
EAMCEF Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation       PHRD       Policy and Human Resources Development
Endowment Fund                                   (Japanese Grant)
EC        European Commission                   OP         GEF Operational Program
EUCAMP East Usambara Conservation Area          PFM        Participatory Forest Management
Management Project
FBD       Forestry and Beekeeping Division of the  PRSP    Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism
FCMP      Forest Conservation and Management     STAP      Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel of
Project                                          the GEF
FRMP      Forest Resources Management Project   TAFORI     Tanzania Forestry Research Institute
GEF       Global Environment Facility           TANAPA     Tanzania National Parks Authority
GOT       Government of Tanzania                UNDP       United Nations Development Program
ICR       Implementation Completion Report      VFR        Village Forest Reserve
IFMS      Integrated Financial Management System  WB       World Bank
IPG       Interagency Planning Group on         WCST       Wildlife Conservation Society of Tanzania
Environmental Funds (Africa Working
Group)
JFM       Joint Forest Management                WWF       World Wide Fund for Nature
LAC       Local Advisory Committee
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:   James W. Adams
Acting Sector Manager:    Agi Kiss
Task Team Leader:     Peter A. Dewees



TANZANIA
FOREST CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Global objective                                                                   6
3. Key performance indicators                                                         6
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     6
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         8
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                12
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     16
3. Benefits and target population                                                    17
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     1 8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        21
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               22
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  23
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       24
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          24
2. Financial                                                                         26
3. Technical                                                                         26
4. Institutional                                                                     27
5. Environmental                                                                     28
6. Social                                                                            31
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                32



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   33
2. Critical risks                                                                   33
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   34
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          34
2. Other                                                                            34
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        35
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       58
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Considerations                                         59
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   79
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 81
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          84
Annex 11: Environmental and Social Considerations                                      86
MAP(S)
IBRD 31719



TANZANIA
Forest Conservation and Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
Environment and Social Development Unit
Date: January 25, 2002                            Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Country Manager/Director: James W. Adams          Sector Manager: Agi Kiss
Project ID: P058706                               Sector(s): AT - Forestry, BA - Civil Service Reforrn, BI -
Institutional Development, VY - Other Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P057234                   Team Leader: Peter A. Dewees
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                      Sector Manager/Director: Agi Kiss
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): AT - Forestry
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit     [] Grant     [ Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 31.1
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (USSm):     Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.10           0.60          1.70
IDA                                                            19.70          11.40         31.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY        (PLANNED)                    1.10           5.90          7.00
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                            0.20           0.00          0.20
BORROWING COUNTRY
Total:                                                        22.10           17.90         40.00
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND TOURISM
Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Address: P.O. Box 426, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Prof. Said Iddi, Dr. Felician Kilahama
Tel: 255-22-2111602            Fax: 255-22-2130091            Email: tfcmp@intafrica.com
Other Agency(ies):
Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
Address: P.O. Box 40832, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Vincent Shauri
Tel: 255-22-2780859            Fax:             Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          ()003     2(u04       2005      21 'i0     2n6
Annual     4.70       6.40       8.30       6.50       5.20
Cumulative    4.70       11.10      19.40      25.90     31.10
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
OCS PAD F R. MS, 20XO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
Background: Forests and woodlands in Tanzania
Tanzania is covered extensively with woodlands and forests. The bulk of these resources -- between 30 and
40 million hectares -- are comprised of extensive dry woodlands, primarily of the miombo type, which
provide critical wood resources and other forest products both to rural communities and urban centers, and
perform important services as watershed catchments and as dry season grazing reserves. Miombo
woodlands are typically very resilient, and regenerate freely after disturbance if left alone. Although rates
of species diversity and endemicity in miombo woodlands are relatively low, they do provide extensive
large mammal habitats (which, in part, support a valuable tourism industry) and are recognized as one of
WWF's 'Global 200' priority ecoregions.
In contrast, the country's tropical moist forests account for a relatively small percentage of the total. The
bulk of the country's forest biodiversity is found in its mountain forests, and in a narrow strip of forests
along the coast which in total comprise less than 5 percent of the total forest area. Amongst the most
important of these are the Eastern Arc forests, which cover an area of around 5,350 square kilometers
spread across 10 separate mountain blocks in Tanzania (and one in Kenya). The Eastern Arc forests
represent one of the oldest and most stable terrestrial ecosystems on the continent and are recognized
globally as one of 25 biodiversity hotspots, which are characterized by high concentrations of endemic
species under considerable threat.
The Eastern Arc forests have the highest known number of plant and animal species of any region in
Tanzania. Approximately 27 percent of the plant species, 63 percent of the linyphiid spider species, 43
percent of butterfly species, 33 percent of amphibian species, 37 percent of the reptile species, 37 percent
of the bird species, and 34 percent of the manimal species found in Tanzania occur in these forests. The
Eastern Arc is also characterized by high concentrations of endemic species. Indeed, the Eastern Arc
forests are known as one of the most important sites in Africa for endemic birds, amphibians, reptiles,
many groups of invertebrates, and plants, and contains one of the highest proportions of endemic species of
any region worldwide. There are at least 16 endemic plant genera in the Arc. Twenty of 21 African violet
species (Saintpaulia spp.) are endemic to the Arc. Of the known species occurring within the Eastern Arc,
approximately 23 percent of montane plant species, 82 percent of linyphiid spider species, 39 percent of the
butterflies species, 63 percent of forest dependent amphibian species, 68 percent of forest dependent reptile
species, 3 percent of the bird species, and 6 percent of the mammal species are endemic. Pattems of
species diversity and endemism in the Eastern Arc have been the subject of extensive research.
The fragmentation of the Eastern Arc into multiple forest blocks has contributed to enhancing its
endemicity. Most mountain blocks are comprised of a number of fragmented forest patches, which also
differ in their species assemblages. Because of its global biodiversity significance, the Eastern Arc is
expected to be proposed as a World Heritage Site in the near future.
Tanzania's forests and woodlands are extremely important for mitigating the impacts of rural poverty.
Recent studies have shown that fully 40 percent of total household consumption in some rural areas is
accounted for by forest and woodland products such as firewood, construction material, and wild fruit and
other foods (a point noted in Tanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper). In addition, woodlands are an
important source of dry season grazing, reducing households' exposure to environmental risk. Rural
households generally use a wide variety of environmental resources from woodlands, and the sizeable
- 2 -



aggregate value of environmentally-derived income is made up of a fairly large number of smaller
individual income sources. In other studies from the region, it has also been shown that there is a negative
relationship between aggregate enviromnental income share and total household income, that the poor are
more resource-dependent than the rich (though better off households are, in quantitative terms, the most
significant users of environmental resources). There is considerable complexity in the factors which
determine levels of resource use: different households use different resources for different reasons at
different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the rural poor are heavily dependent on resources
derived from woodlands, and deforestation and forest degradation poses a significant threat to rural
livelihoods.
In addition to Tanzania's indigenous forests, there are an estimated 135,000 ha of industrial plantations,
dominated by pine and cypress, of which 80,000 ha are under Government control and management. These
plantations are a key resource for the production of industrial roundwood, primarily to meet domestic
demands.
In 1998, the export of forest products amounted to US$6.5 million while imports totalled around US$4.2
million. Wood carvings, blackwood clarinet sets, and logs from natural forests are the most important
export products, whereas imports are dominated by value-added products such as paper, paperboard,
fiberboard, plywood, and other panels, and high quality sawnwood.
Like virtually every major forest area of global importance, Tanzania's forests and woodlands are under
growing pressures from population growth and economic development, and because of the need for timber
and forest products. Many forested areas have no protected status. The absence of protected status has
meant that these forests may be converted, legally, to other uses (primarily agriculture, which tends to be of
very low productivity). For forested areas which are under some sort of protected status, there is often
substantial political pressure to use them for new settlement -- pressures which are amplified because of
encroachment in some areas. It is accepted that formnal protection or reservation is no panacea, though, and
recent policy and legal changes have sought to improve the context for locally-based village-level woodland
management and protection.
Large-scale timber extraction still occurs, albeit illegally because of a moratorium on the felling of high
forests established in the early 1990s. Logging has been almost completely stopped in some areas (such as
in the East Usambaras). However, there are few incentives - or the capacity - otherwise to reduce or even
to monitor the rates of extraction. In practice, District Forest Officers (who are accountable to the local
District Administration rather than to FBD) sometimes condone harvesting in high forests. Many Districts
make their own decisions about logging, and some have even called for logging in their District forest
management plans, irrespective of national policy. Bans on the harvesting of timber from dry woodlands
are occasionally enforced, but only on an ad hoc basis. The issue is far less critical in these woodlands
because of their resilience, regenerative capacity, and relatively low conservation value.
State-managed industrial plantations could ease some of the pressures on indigenous forests, but these have
been poorly and ineffectively managed. There are sixteen state forest plantation areas. The bulk are found
in Sao Hill (41,600 ha), Meru/Usa, North Kilimanjaro, and West Kilimanjaro, which collectively account
for 72 percent of the total area under plantations. The private sector currently operates 55,000 ha of
plantations including about 6,000 ha of wattle, teak and softwoods managed by Tanganyika Wattle
Company in Njombe District, Escarpment Forest Company in Mufindi District, and Kilombero Valley
Teak Company in Kilombero District respectively.
- 3 -



The state plantation sector accounts for the bulk of all revenues collected by the Forestry and Beekeeping
Division (FBD) of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT) -- around 46 percent in 1998
-- largely because only a small proportion of the revenue from natural forests (which account for most
domestically marketed forest products) is collected.
In light of the large inefficiencies and relatively high costs of continuing to manage the state plantation
sector, there is a limited economic rationale for continued Government involvement in the sector. It has
been estimated that the plantation labor force exceeds that which is needed by 150 percent. Total
employment in the Forestry and Beekeeping Division is around 2,150 staff, of which 1,050 are employed in
the plantation sector. [In contrast, staffing in the entire Eastern Arc forests, an area covering over 5,000
square kilometers, consists of 8 Forest Officers and 57 Assistant Forest Officers.]
The management and conservation of all of these forest resources is widely agreed to be in the country's
national interests, but not surprisingly has proven to be an enormous challenge. Of the wooded area,
around 10 million ha are Central Government Reserves and 3 million ha are Local Govenument Reserves.
The balance, estimated at around 20 million ha, has no protected status. A new category of reserved forest,
the Village Forest Reserve, poses much promise for legitimizing community-based woodland management
and conservation, but this tenure category has yet to be formally legislated.
The Forestry and Beekeeping Division provides overall policy guidance for the forestry sector, and some
technical oversight and supervision. For the most part, however, management and protection of all reserves
has been highly decentralized, and is primarily the responsibility of District Forest Officers (DFOs) and
their staff, who report to local district administrations (with the exception of a number of major catchment
forests, which are under the management of FBD). The current institutional structure has been
problematic, and badly in need of reform. The fundamental orientation of the institutional structure is
toward regulation and enforcement of forest legislation -- roles which were largely appropriate in an earlier
context when there were few needs to mediate between the demands of rural people, the state, and the
private sector, but which are mostly inappropriate in contemporary Tanzania where forest protection and
management can no longer be undertaken independently of the needs of rural communities.
In particular, Government has been aggressively searching for more effective ways to support the
involvement of communities in forest and woodland management and protection, as the bulk of wooded
areas are under their ultimate control. The potential for the involvement of communities in woodland
management has been explored and supported through a series of innovative pilots. These experiences
have been captured in extensive policy reforms, and legal mechanisms are being drafted which will
reinforce the role of communities in this respect.
Until recently, the institutional, policy, and legal framework provided only limited scope for supporting
forest biodiversity conservation. As a signatory to the Convention on Biodiversity, Tanzania is
increasingly recognizing its important obligation to put in place sound mechanisms for forest biodiversity
conservation, but is ill-equipped to do so within the prevailing institutional structure. Forest protection was
undertaken in the past only to meet the needs of the timber industry, and also for watershed catchment
protection. There is a very limited capacity to take on the wider issues associated with biodiversity
conservation within FBD, and a widespread recognition that this constraint needs urgently to be addressed.
Resources to finance the management of woodlands and forests are tightly constrained, and the sector
remains heavily dependent on donors. The more effective collection of revenues from the felling of timber
and other forest products, coupled with greater protection from local and government sources, could begin
to address the problem. Poor governance in the sector, and the lack of accountability and supervision in the
- 4 -



field, however, are constraints to doing so. Further, the ability to use these limited resources to finance
biodiversity conservation is limited, given the low returns which can be anticipated from these investments.
Finally, although donor support has provided badly needed resources for forest and biodiversity
conservation and management, this support remains highly fragmented and largely ineffective at addressing
Tanzania's national policy priorities. In 1996, it was estimated that the ratio of donor support in the
forestry sector to publicly-financed support for forestry was 19 to 1 and that donor resources were largely
not being captured by the budget process. This disparity between donor and public funding, and the
inefficiencies which in some respect are driven by it, suggests that it is extremely difficult for Government
to address its own policy priorities (rather than the donor community's) through the public expenditure
program.
Past Bank supPOrt for the sector
IDA's most recent past support for the sector (through the Forest Resources Management Project, FRMP)
was formulated as a first step in addressing Tanzania's forest management challenges as articulated in the
1989 Tanzania Forestry Action Plan, and had three specific objectives: (a) to strengthen institutions in
charge of the development of forest policies and natural resources information; (b) to support the
development of rural land policies, strengthen crucial governmental and non-governmental organizations in
charge of the implementation of these policies, and to support the implementation and monitoring of
government's policy of village demarcation and titling; and (c) to strengthen regional and district forestry
institutions in Mwanza and Tabora Regions. This project has now closed, and its modest successes
provided important lessons and insights about the possibilities and potential for improving forest
management.
In many respects, the forestry sector is at a critical turning point in Tanzania. A new national Forestry
policy was adopted by the Cabinet in 1998, and supporting legislation is being drafted. The policy is
innovative and provides substantial scope for developing alternative forest management and conservation
regimes and financing mechanisms. Consistent with the on-going civil service reform program, policy
recognized the need for substantive institutional reforms in the forestry sector, and has proposed the
creation of a new Tanzania Forest Service (TFS). With regard to biodiversity conservation, the new policy
commits government to establishing nature reserves in areas of high biodiversity value. Most importantly,
however, the policy argues that local institutions and communities should have a central role in forest
conservation and management. Policy provided the framework for preparation of the National Forest
Program (NFP), which was approved by Government in November 2001, and future Bank support is seen
to be entirely mainstreamed into the priorities outlined in the NFP.
Development obiectives
Building on experience gained through FRMP, and responding to the priorities outlined in the new Forest
Policy and the National Forest Program, the objectives of the proposed Forest Conservation and
Management Project (FCMP) are to provide the resources to assist Government in policy implementation,
in particular by developing a framework for the long-term sustainable management and conservation of
Tanzania's forest resources, strengthening the role of individuals, communities, villages, and the private
sector in management and conservation of forests, and implementing this framework on a pilot scale. The
project's specific objectives are to: (i) support the establishment of a new national forestry institutional
framework effectively to support the sustainable management and protection of Tanzania's forest,
woodland and industrial plantation resources; (ii) establish the framework for involvement of the private
sector in industrial plantation development and management; and (iii) develop the institutional capacity
- 5 -



within the forestry sector for coordination, financing, and management of biodiversity conservation
interventions within Tanzania's forests, in particular in the forests of the Eastern Arc mountains. It is
envisaged that this third objective will be implemented in conjunction with support from the Global
Environment Facility. Most of the project delivery mechanism for meeting objectives outlined in the third
component will be separately Appraised.
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The global environmental objectives of the project are to (i) develop and begin to implement an integrated
biodiversity conservation strategy for the Eastern Arc Mountains (which account for 40 percent of
Tanzania's remaining tropical high forest cover), which will, in turn, strengthen Tanzania's capacity to
coordinate and lead forest biodiversity conservation interventions, (ii) support an integrated
community-based pilot intervention in a priority conservation area to achieve sustainable impact related to
both biodiversity and human development, (iii) irnprove the institutional mechanisms and capacity to
undertake forest biodiversity conservation, and (iv) develop, and implement on a pilot basis, a sustainable
financing mechanism for conservation activities in the Eastern Arc forests.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The success of the project will be based on the following key performance indicators:
(i)  a functioning Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) is established with clearly defined service delivery
functions and responsibilities with regard to natural forests, woodlands, and industrial
plantations;
(ii) significant areas of natural forests and woodlands are under effective management as an outcome
of partnerships and initiatives with multiple partners (primarily communities and local
governments);
(iii) a range of mechanisms for improving revenue collection involving partners such as the Tanzania
Revenue Authority and/or the private sector are tested and implemented; time-bound forest
revenue collection targets are established and achieved; and effective mechanisms for sharing
revenues with villages are put in place;
(iv) a framework for private sector participation in the management of industrial plantations, is
established, including guidelines, incentives, and regulatory, monitoring, and control
mechanisms; 3 pilot operations are in place and have been evaluated;
(v) an institutional framework consistent with overall civil service reforms is in place which enables
Government to undertake forest biodiversity conservation initiatives, in particular in the Eastern
Arc Mountains; institutional capacity to do so is strengthened; and
(vi) the modalities for the establishment of a sustainable financial mechanism for conservation of the
Eastern Arc mountain forests are developed and implemented.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-90     Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/15/2000
The principal goal of the CAS is to help Governnent reduce poverty through the promotion of higher
growth, and through interventions that build the assets of the poor, reduce their vulnerability, and promote
better governance and accountability. The CAS fully recognizes Government's leadership in defining the
- 6 -



development agenda, and its desire to enter into more productive relationships with its partners in doing so.
The FCMP specifically addresses the CAS objectives of supporting sustainable rural development and
private sector development through the promotion of off-farm activities and through the management of
woodlands and forests by conmnunities and through the establishment of a framework for the involvement
of the private sector in industrial plantation management. The establishment of the TFS is consistent with
the CAS goal of public sector reform and institution building, to increase the effectiveness of public service
delivery and imnprove governance.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Government of Tanzania signed the Convention on Biological Diversity on June 12, 1992 and ratified
the Convention on August 3, 1996. Tanzania is a party to the African Convention on the Conservation of
Nature and Natural Resources, the Convention on the Protection of World Cultural and Natural Heritage,
the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), and the Ramsar Convention on
Wetlands of International Importance. Govermment has placed a high priority on the conservation of
biological diversity, and, for example, maintains one of the largest systems of protected areas in Africa.
Much of the focus of these efforts, however, has been on wildlife habitat conservation and not on forest
biodiversity conservation.
The proposed GEF activity, which is to be separately Appraised, is consistent with the GEF Operational
Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation, and specifically with the objectives of Operational Programs 3 and
4 on Forest Ecosystems and Mountain Ecosystems. Consistent with these objectives, GEF support will
provide finance for the creation and strengthening of participatory and co-management schemes to build
support and ownership for biodiversity conservation, develop socio-econornic activities to reconcile
biodiversity conservation with hunan needs, identify processes which are likely to have significant adverse
impacts on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and support capacity building efforts while
focusing primarily on a mountain tropical forest ecosystem that is at risk.
Particular attention will be given to the demonstration and application of techniques to protect highly
threatened endemic species; in situ conservation of wild relatives of domesticated plants and animals for the
sustainable use of biodiversity; strengthening conservation area networks; and development of sustainable
use methods in forestry by combining production, socio-economic, and biodiversity goals. In addition,
GEF resources will seek to support sustainable agriculture and land use practices on mountain slopes
adjacent to the forests in order to protect representative habitats and to strengthen the network of
representative conservation areas in montane forest systems. Activities supported with GEF resources are
designed to be replicated, with successful outcomes and lessons learned documented and shared with other
GEF funded programs.
GEF support is consistent with Article 8 of the Convention on Biological Diversity, which relates to in situ
conservation, as it will support protection and management of protected areas in a region of globally
important biodiversity, promote environmentally sound and sustainable activities in areas adjacent to
protected areas. GEF support will promote the recovery of threatened species through the development and
implementation of management and ecosystem protection strategies, and will support maintenance of viable
populations of threatened and endangered species within and beyond protected area boundaries. GEF
support is consistent with CoP3's emphasis on intersectoral cooperation in natural resource biodiversity
conservation, building capacity in local institutions and communities, strengthening the involvement of
local people, promoting environmental awareness, and improving the dissemination of information about
sites of global importance. GEF support will also help to achieve related goals of reducing poverty in
- 7 -



forest dependent communities by providing altematives to destruction of biodiversity habitat as a means of
securing a livelihood.
GEF support is consistent with guidance from the CoP with respect to conservation, management, and
sustainable use of threatened and endangered species; strengthening the involvement of communities, and
building partnerships at the local and national levels; and promoting cost effective measures to conserve
biodiversity, including economic incentives and alternative livelihood opportunities for local communities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main sector issues
Tanzania's 1998 Forest Policy characterizes the most important priorities and constraints with regard to the
sector as being related to the need to:
* manage the country's forest resources in respect of its various types (woodlands, high forests, coastal
forests); uses (production and protection forests); and legal status (reserved forests, forests/woodlands
within national parks, and non-reserved forested land);
*   manage forest industries and other forest-based activities to contribute to national development and to
the equitable sharing of benefits between stakeholders;
*   conserve the country's unique ecosystems and biological diversity, considering the needs of local
populations and appropriate methods of management and use; and
*   adapt the institutional arrangements and financial and human resource requirements to meet these
objectives of forest sector development.
More specifically, factors which constrain the effective management of Tanzania's forest and woodland
resources include:
* weak oversi,ht for forest and woodland management, rooted in problems of accountability and
supervision in the current institutional framework. As an outcome, forest exploitation has, in many
instances, been subject to few controls or constraints, and has resulted in the movement and settlement
of people into reserved forests, and the unsustainable and illegal harvesting of wood for commercial
purposes;
* an ineffective svstem of decentralized forest administration, which separates the need for enforcement
and regulation from the needs of rural communities for forest and woodland products; one outcome of
this is the limited emphasis on the role of forestry institutions in service delivery;
*   inadequate svstems of revenue collection in a decentralized forestry administration, and inadequate
mechanisms for ensuring that revenues collected are used, in turn, for forest management or are
otherwise returned or shared with villages and communities with a stake in forest protection. Targets
set for revenue collection are not clearly rationalized, and though it is estimated that less than 10
percent of revenues which are due from natural forests are actually collected, little thinking has focused
on how and with what objective should revenues be collected. Low rates of revenue collection
adversely affect recurrent funding of forestry activities, increase the potential for rent-seeking, and
encourage rates of consumption which are not consistent with the economic costs of forest exploitation;
* inadequate institutional mechanisms for forest biodiversity conservation specifically with the capacity
to assess the need for, plan, coordinate, implement and monitor conservation activities;
- 8 -



*   widely disparate systems of tenure over forested lands and related weak incentives to undertake
community-based forest conservation, such as in the Eastern Arc forests, with unclear opportunities for
closer cooperation with villages to undertake these activities;
*   limited scope for publicly-financed forest biodiversity conservation (largely because public revenue
streams from logging have dried up since a logging ban was put in place) and a heavy dependency on
donor assistance to provide irregular support for the sector;
* limited effectiveness of the public expenditure program in the forestry sector in meeting national forest
policy objectives, and highly distorted financial and technical resource delivery from the donor
communtv.
Government StrateLv
Government's strategy for improving the management of the forest sector is captured in three processes: the
forest policy process, which was completed in 1998; the legislative process, which is underway, and is
intended to provide the basis for the implementation of the policy; and the process which has led to the
preparation of the National Forest Program, which prioritizes a program for future action within the
already defined policy framework.
The overall goal of Government's National Forest Policy is to enhance the contribution of the forest sector
to the sustainable development of Tanzania, and the conservation and management of its natural resources
for the benefit of present and future generations. Consistent with this overall goal, the government strategy
for doing this is to:
*   ensure sustainable supplies of forest products and services by maintaining sufficient forest cover under
effective management;
* increase employment and foreign exchange earnings through sustainable forest-based industrial
development and trade;
*   ensure ecosystem stability through the conservation of forest biodiversity, water catchments, and soil
fertility; and
*   enhance national capacity to manage and develop the forest sector in collaboration with other
stakeholders.
Government intends to implement its strategy by relying on a diverse set of institutions, including the
private sector, local government, specialized 'executive agencies,' and communities or other organizations
of people living adjacent to forests. Decentralized forest management will be strengthened and improved by
clarifying the role of Villages in forest management and protection, by developing coordination mechanisms
between central and local forest administrations, and by ensuring accountability mechanisms are
incorporated into institutional change efforts. Functions which would be retained by the Ministry
responsible for natural resources would be limited to policy development, regulation, monitoring, and
facilitation.
Legislation to support implementation of the 1998 Forest Policy is in the process of being prepared. While
new legislation will provide a stronger legal basis for policy implementation, tremendous latitude for action
is possible within the existing framework (viz. the establishment of Nature Reserves, the scope for
village-based forest reserves and management, improved performance with regard to revenue collection, the
establishment of specialized 'executive agencies,' and so on).
- 9-



Following adoption of the Forest Policy, Government launched preparation of the National Forest Program
(NFP), which outlines a plan for implementation of the policy. The National Forest Program outlines a
four-fold program of forest development in Tanzania:
*   forest resources conservation and management (in which both biodiversity conservation and
participatory forest management feature strongly);
*   institutional and human resources development;
*   legal and regulatory development; and
*   forest industries development.
The NFP provides the framework for future public expenditure in the forestry sector, and outlines priorities
for donor financing. It has been envisaged that the principal financial delivery mechanism for the National
Forest Program is this Forest Conservation and Management Project (FCMP) into which proposed GEF
support has been fully-blended. As such, the FCMP has been prepared in close collaboration with the
preparation of the National Forest Program, to ensure consistency in approach and objectives, and
ultimately, to focus on the strategic provision of resources to assist in the implementation of the NFP.
Additional bilateral support for implementation of the NFP is in the process of being mobilized.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed by the project
The project is designed to address a number of pressing sectoral issues. In particular, the project will
support Government's efforts to move forward with
*   substantive institutional reform to reduce problems associated with the current institutional structure,
building on the strengths inherent in decentralization while strengthening centralized structures which
can provide important service delivery functions to districts requesting them. The new Forest Policy
and the National Forest Program clearly articulate the problems posed by the current institutional
structure, and pose a series of options for addressing these institutional constraints, including the
creation of a service-oriented forest management agency, the more active involvement of the private
sector in plantation management, and a better-defined basis for community-based forest and woodland
conservation and management. Among other things, the project will focus on developing
service-delivery standards, and on introducing the institutional tools and mechanisms for ensuring these
standards can be met.
In particular, the project will focus on developinsz and implementing service standards to supMort
village-based forest and woodlands management and conservation by building upon some of the
initiatives piloted by the FRMP (as well as through other interventions), in particular ngitiri
management, Joint Forest Management, the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, and through
several pilot initiatives focusing specifically on community-based forest conservation in a selected
priority area of the Eastem Arc forests.
*   In addition, institutional reforms are expected to focus, as well, on addressing the need for an
institutional framework for forest biodiversity conservation (also to be separately Appraised). It is
envisaged that the project will provide resources for the establishment of a capacity within the
institutional structure for forest biodiversity conservation.
- 10 -



*   improved financial and procurement management, particularly through revenue collection and
monitoring, which focuses on the relationship between improved revenue collection and forest
management. The basis for revenue collection will be rationalized, and mechanisms for revenue
sharing at the village level will be defined and implemented. Alternative institutional mechanisms for
revenue collection, and the monitoring of revenue flows, will be developed and implemented. These
activities will build on the revenue collection pilots launched by FRMP. There are important synergies
between prospects for improved revenue collection and proposed institutional reform.
It is envisaged that improvements in financial and procurement management will contribute
substantively to developing a framework for longer term public expenditure, complemented by donor
support, for the sector, with the idea that a credible institutional framework with strong service delivery
objectives will help bring about a stronger sector-wide approach to forestry.
In addition, the project intends to pilot, in part with separately Appraised GEF financing, a sustainable
financing initiative which focuses on the generation of resources to finance forest biodiversity
conservation. Within the constrained fiscal framework in Tanzania, there are almost no public sector
resources to make these types of investments in the absence of a financial retum.
*   fuller involvement of the private sector in industrial plantation management is envisaged both to
improve efficiency, productivity, and revenues from these particular resources, but also to reduce the
fiscal burden of continued public sector management of a sector which should be commercially viable
on its own.
*   improving the framework for planning and implementation of biodiversitv conservation initiatives
through the separately Appraised GEF-funded Conservation of the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests
Component. Building this capacity will be done in conjunction with other proposed institutional
reforms in the forestry sector and result in forestry sector institutions at the central, district and
partnership levels having greater institutional capacity to provide oversight and monitoring of the whole
Eastern Arc ecosystem.
Stratei-ic choices
Government has already made a number of strategic choices which are laid out in policy and in the
National Forest Program, particularly that the status quo with regard to forest management is not
acceptable. These choices form the basis for the proposed intervention, and indeed are widely regarded as
critical to the outcome of both the project and the future of forest management and conservation in
Tanzania:
*   Government has decided to establish a specialized 'executive agency' with clearly defined roles and
tasks, and with a mandate for bringing about improvements in forest and woodland management
through multiple institutional and service delivery mechanisms. It is envisaged that the Tanzania
Forest Service (TFS) will be constituted with specific service delivery functions and performance
targets. Responsibilities for forest policy, legislation, and planning are to remain with a sectoral
department of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.
* Government has committed itself to more fully involving the private sector in industrial plantation
management, and envisages their eventual operation on a more commercial basis through lease,
concession, or joint management arrangements, with the objective of improving financial and economic
returns from plantations through more cost-effective operational management.
- 11 -



*   Government is seeking to mnaximize the benefits of forest and woodland management to the large rural
populations dependent on them, by creating and supporting tenure and local control mechanisms which
support village-based management.
*   Consistent with its obligations as a signator to the C'onvention on Biodiversity, Government has
integrated conservation objectives into its wider forest policy framework, and intends to implement
these objectives through the institutional mechanisms posed in policy (through Government institutions,
villages, the private sector, or specialized agencies).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Tanzania Forest Conservation and Management Project will have three components.
Supporting institutional change and improvin_ service delivery
This component will assist the government with the design and establishment of the Tanzania Forest
Service (TFS), as a specialized 'executive agency' as defined by the Executive Agencies Act (1997), and
consistent with the wider and on-going national program of civil service reforn. It is envisaged that the
Tanzania Forest Service will, among other things, have responsibility for bringing about improvements in
the protection and management of natural forests and the development and management of industrial
plantations (including promoting the private sector to take on these tasks). The concept is that an agency
with a national mandate will eventually be established. Technical assistance will be provided to work with
FBD and the Civil Service Department (CSD) and other relevant government agencies to design the
structure and functions of the agency and to draw up the necessary implementation plans and guidelines for
establishment of the agency, including the formulation of business and staff recruitment plans. This
component will also provide support to build on experience from previous operations, and upon the
opportunities posed by the new Forest Policy, and planned legislation.
Three sub-components of this activity are envisaged:
(i)    Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service, focusing on the phased-in introduction of the new
executive agency, with clearly defined roles, functions, performance standards, and monitoring.
This sub-component would provide resources to manage the change process, to strengthen the
capacity for administration and management, to rationalize and to strengthen the capacity for tasks
related to policy, planning, and legislation (which would remain with the Ministry), and would
support a badly-needed program of investments in infrastructure, including headquarter and field
facilities for the TFS. Complementary support will be provided by GEF to improve the capacity
for the conservation and management of forest biodiversity, particularly in the Eastern Arc forests
(described in the third project component).
(ii)   Improving service-delivery mechanisms for participatory forest and woodland management,
in particular, support for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, woodland management by
individuals and communities (ngitiri), and Joint Forest Management, building on experiences
piloted in earlier operations. This sub-component which will focus on facilitating the expansion of
community based forest management activities, is envisaged to be supported by the Government of
Denmark.
- 12-



(iii)  Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands, to meet the dual objectives of
improving the capacity of the TFS to become self-financing, and of ensuring that revenues are
reinvested at the local level in forest protection and management through local institutions. This
component will develop alternative revenue collection mechanisms, and monitoring systems to
improve rates of collection.
A mid-term review would determnine outstanding issues and provide recommendations for improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of the TFS. A further evaluation will be undertaken prior to project completion
and, as well as determining the degree of achievement and success of the TFS, will develop lessons for the
future.
Private sector involvement in the management of industrial plantations
The project will provide resources to develop and implement a framework for the involvement of the private
sector in the management of existing industrial plantations as well as to strengthen the potential for the
development and management of new plantations. This would include an analysis of the technical and
financial feasibility of the industrial plantations with reference to existing and potential markets as well as
the formulation of steps and guidelines for the private sector's involvement. Multiple mechanisms for the
involvement of the private sector will be developed and implemented on a pilot basis, and are expected to
include leasing or concession arrangements, joint forest management, and co-management. Consistent with
policy, the objective is eventually to introduce fully commercial plantation management, building on
information and experience gained through project activities.
Four sub-components are envisaged:
(i)    Improving the plantation resource information base and management planning capacity. This
sub-component will provide resources to develop the information needed to allow for the
identification and selection of priority sites and for designing pilot activities. The sub-component
will finance aerial photography, interpretation, mapping, and indicative inventories of around
40,000 ha of state-owned plantations; a rapid socio-economic assessment which identifies key
stakeholders, their concerns, and expectations and any mitigating steps which might be needed; the
development of a plantation database for management purposes; preparation of basic guidelines to
guide plantation management and to establish parameters for monitoring commercial plantation
operations; preparation of basic growth and yield tables for key species relying on existing data;
preliminary estimates of growing stock and allowable cut; and capacity building of staff in selected
areas to build capacity to undertake these tasks.
(ii)   Strengthening institutional support services for private sector involvement. This
sub-component will support the creation of an enabling institutional and market environment for
private sector involvement in plantation development and management. It will provide resources
for the design and implementation of a communication strategy; the development of a plan of
action with agreed principles and clear objectives for private sector involvement; strengthening the
capacity within MRNNT or within the planned forest agency to handle PSI; the development of legal
procedures and instruments for tendering to ensure transparency and consistency with Government
guidelines and with social and environmental safeguards; the preparation of model information
memoranda, leases, model contracts, and transparent bidding assessment procedures, as well as
community and environmental action plans where they are needed; prepare recommendations on an
improved log sales system; an action plant for improving forestry taxation and the investment
- 13-



environment for plantation forestry; and study tours and staff training to increase an understanding
of the principles surrounding private sector involvement.
(iii)  Pilot alternative management of selected industrial plantations. Three pilot activities are
envisaged under this component: the development of leasing or concession arrangements for
involving the private sector in plantation management; the development of co-management
arrangements where responsibility for plantation management is shared between Government and a
partner (for example, a village or a company); and designated community management for a
plantation area where responsibilities and control are assumed by a village. The project will
provide resources to establish boundaries of each pilot area, to carry out rapid inventories or aerial
surveys as needed, to prepare legal documentation as needed, and to carry out stakeholder surveys
and assessments where communities will be involved or otherwise affected by the program.
(iv)   Monitoring and evaluation. The project will place a strong emphasis on the monitoring and
evaluation of performance under the pilot operations. The project will provide resources to
establish a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation; to determine performance indicators for the
pilot operations; to implement a regular monitoring process which reports against quantitative and
qualitative performance indicators; and to provide feedback to MNRT to modify mechanisms and
procedures on the basis of results from the pilot operations.
Eastern Arc forests conservation and manaaement
This third component of the program, which is largely to be financed by GEF (and possibly with bilateral
sources) has been jointly developed and implemented by the World Bank and UNDP working with
Government and other partners with interests in the forestry sector. The GEF-fmanced elements of this
component will be separately Appraised. This component will support institutional reform, strategy
development, pilot community-based conservation, and the development of sustainable financing for
tropical high forest conservation in Tanzania.
The main global environmental objective of this GEF activity is to promote the sustainable conservation
and management of the Eastern Arc forests. The GEF activity is expected to have four sub-components,
the first two of which will be implemented by the World Bank:
(i)   Institutional reforms for forest biodiversity conservation, in particular of the Eastern Arc
forests at central, district and local partnership levels to incorporate specific responsibilities for
biodiversity conservation, oversight, monitoring and coordination. Such reforms will be linked
with other reforns and institutional restructuring proposed for the forestry sector as a whole, which
are to be financed by IDA. The GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be the
Bank;
(ii)   Mechanisms for sustainable financing of biodiversity conservation, will be developed including
the establishment of the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF). It is
envisaged that a pilot endowment trust fund will be established by the project, with GEF resources.
The EAMCEF's initial operations and programs will be co-financed by IDA. The GEF
implementing agency for this sub-component would be the Bank.
Two additional components are to be implemented by the UNDP and are complementary to the
Bank-implemented activities:
- 14 -



(iii)  Development and preparation of an integrated Conservation Strategy for the Eastern Arc
Mountain Forests using a broad-based participatory process, with a focus on institutional
capacity building, and which considers links to other sectoral activities, such as agriculture, water,
land, and energy. A wider dialogue on the impacts of sectoral activities on forest biodiversity
conservation in the Eastern Arc will be developed amongst the key institutions involved in sectoral
activities. Mapping and baseline activities will be undertaken as part of the Strategy development,
and will include an assessment of the multiple tenure regimes found in the forests of the Arc. The
GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.
(iv)   A forest conservation intervention through government and community partnership
initiatives which will be undertaken at priority sites in the Uluguru Mountains - one of the most
important mountain forest blocks in the arc. Firm linkages will be established with partners (other
donors, NGOs, Community-based organizations, govermment agencies, etc.) The GEF
implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.
A Project Brief for the full GEF activity has been prepared and was approved by the GEF Council in
December 2001. GEF-financed activities will be subsequently Appraised. IDA-fmnanced activities,
however, have been Appraised.
Proiect Administration and Manaeement
Finally, the project will finance the costs of administration and management of the project components, in a
manner consistent with World Bank guidance with respect to accounting, financial management, and
procurement.
Indicative         Bank  r, of       GEF      % of
Component               Sector       Costs      of   financing  Bank   financing  GEF
(USSM)   Total   (USSMt   financing  (USSM)  financing
A. Supporting Institutional  Civil Service               0.0              0.0              0.0
Change and Improving Service Reform
Delivery
1. Establishment of the                       14.20     35.5   13.40     43.1     0.00     0.0
Tanzania Forest Service
2. Improving revenue                           4.00     10.0    3.70      11.9    0.00     0.0
collection from forests
and woodlands
3. Improving service delivery                  8.40     21.0    8.10     26.0     0.00     0.0
mechanisms for
participatory forest
and woodland
management
B. Private Sector Involvement PSI              3.40      8.5    3.30      10.6    0.00     0.0
in the Management of
Industrial Plantations
C. Eastern Arc Forest     Other Environment              0.0               0.0    0.00     0.0
Conservation and
Management
1. Eastern Arc Mountains                       9.00     22.5    2.00      6.4     6.75    96.4
Conservation Endowment
- 15-



Fund
2. Improving Institutional                       0.30      0.8    0.00       0.0     0.25      3.6
Support Services
for forest biodiversity
conservation
D. Project Administration and                    0.70      1.8    0.60        1.9    0.00      0.0
Management
Total Project Costs                    40.00    100.0   31.10      100.0    7.00    100.0
0.00      0.0    0.00       0.0     0.00      0.0
Total Financing Required                    40.00     100.0   31.10     100.0     7.00    100.0
Note: Indicative costs exclude an estimated $ 4.5 million in bilateral and other financing needed to support implementation of
the Eastern Arc conservation component, most of which will be required to establish and manage the Eastern Arc
Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund. Costs to implement the UNDP components of this activity are expected to
total S 5 million, but these are excluded from these estimates. Proposed Bank financing incorporates $600,000 in Project
Preparation Facility resources.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will directly support key policy reforms which have already been introduced through the new
Forest Policy. These include the creation of a more effective forest management agency, the more active
involvement of the private sector in forest plantation management, greatly strengthened support for the
establishment of local forest and woodland management and protection regimes, and the development of an
improved capacity to undertake tropical high forest conservation and management. With regard to the
latter, the policy explicitly recognizes the role Tanzanians should play in the conservation and management
of forests and woodlands. The policy also spells out the need for integrated strategic processes for forestry
activities, including the implementation of broad-based conservation initiatives. The project will support
policy reforms through:
(i)    The establishment of a pilot, autonomous TFS that will be responsible for supporting and
improving indigenous forest management and plantation management, including management of
public woodlands, by working with multiple stakeholders. This intervention is also in line with
Government objectives under the Civil Service Reform Program. The TFS will have a strong
service-delivery orientation, focusing on its role in encouraging individuals, communities, villages,
and the private sector in undertaking woodland and forest conservation and management. The
capacity to undertake financial and procurement management will be greatly strengthened, with the
objective of establishing a more transparent framework for public expenditure management;
(ii)   The development of a framework to promote and oversee the involvement of the private sector in
industrial plantation development and management;
(iii)  Continuing efforts to foster and support more effective conservation and management of
commnunity and private woodlands, the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, as well as the
management of government woodlands by adjacent communities by ensuring that direct benefits go
to cornmunities with management and protection responsibilities; and
(iv)   The involvement of communities and other partners in the conservation and management of
tropical high forests, in partnership with key stakeholders with interests in biodiversity
conservation, as well as through support for the establishment of a sustainable financing initiative
which ensures long-term access to resources to invest in biodiversity conservation.
- 16 -



3. Benefits and target population:
Proiect benefits
Reform of Forestry institutions
The reform of forest institutions in Tanzania is expected to improve their capacity to function as service
delivery institutions, particularly to provide communities services related to the establishment of Village
Forest Reserves, the strengthening of traditional natural resource management strategies (such as ngitiri
management), and the adoption of locally appropriate tree cultivation and management strategies. In
addition, these reforms are expected to complement -- and to strengthen -- the role of local government by
improving the effectiveness of forest revenue collection, by strengthening local accountability for natural
resources, and by developing transparent mechanisms for sharing revenues with villages and communities.
Finally, a more effective institutional structure will more generally contribute to the long-term sustainable
management of forest and woodland resources in Tanzania, with significant impacts on the poorest groups
and communities because of their heavy dependence on woodlands to meet demands for consumption. The
establishment of an 'executive agency' is expected in the longer term to reduce the financial burden of
existing forestry institutions on the public budget.
Private sector management of industrialplantations
The involvement of the private sector in industrial plantation management is expected to reduce the
financial and institutional burden of plantations on the public sector, and is expected to lead to
improvements in the efficiency of production and management. A clearer long term commitment to the
private sector with respect to plantation development will improve the climate for investment and
reinvestment in the wood products and processing industry, and will lead to greater employment and
income generating opportunities.
Eastern Arcforests conservation and management
While the biodiversity of the Eastem Arc Mountains is of extraordinary international significance and
locally is of great value for mitigating the impacts of poverty, the value of these forests to the national
economy, primarily through water and energy production, is of great national importance. The Eastern Arc
forests cover several major catchments which collectively provide water for all of the nation's coastal
communities (including Dar es Salaam with its population of 3 million). These mountain forests feed more
than 22 rivers, including the Sigi, Ruvu, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The Uluguru catchment, for example,
provides the main source of drinking water to both Morogoro town and Dar es Salaam. Hydroelectric
energy production is similarly heavily dependent on maintaining the integrity of these forests. Nearly 70
percent of Tanzania's electricity is generated from sources derived from the Eastern Arc forests.
The idea of collecting environmental rents, especially from the energy and water sectors, has been tabled in
a general way a number of times. These proposals, however, are somewhat disconnected from an
understanding of the tenuous - indeed, highly precarious - financial position of service delivery institutions
such as the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (Tanesco) and the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage
Authority (DAWASA). While the capturing of environmental rents may seem to be a good idea in the
abstract, the current public expenditure framework suggests that this would be unrealistic in the short term.
- 17 -



Other environmental services captured by the macro-economy associated with the Eastern Arc forests
impact positively on agricultural production and also result from timber harvesting (both through the legal
and illegal felling of trees used in construction and to make furniture and charcoal). More recently a small
ecotourism industry has developed. There are some indications of a growing trade in threatened species of
insects and reptiles. Accordingly, there is a strong need for sustainable use of forest products for these
purposes and activities such as tourism which maximize the non-destructive uses of forests.
Project beneficiaries
The project is primarily intended to benefit rural households which are dependent on woodlands and forests
to meet consumptive demands, and job seekers who are able to find employment in a revitalized forest
industry (based on sustainable plantation production). The project is expected to develop lessons from
innovative pilot activities and as a result of institutional development which will have potential benefits for
the vast majority of the country's population. Direct benefits which will accrue to communities through the
project include improved consumption and income through the use and sale of forest products obtained
from sustainably managed resources, and an improved environment associated with enhanced forest
conservation and protection. National benefits of biodiversity conservation are expected to accrue as a
result of watershed catchment protection, which in turn will yield significant benefits in terms of long-term
hydroelectric energy production and urban water supplies.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Government of Tanzania
The National Forest Program provides the overall framework for project implementation. The project is
the primary mechanism for mobilizing finance for implementation of the NFP, which will be complemented
by other donor initiatives which are in the process of being mobilized.
Three coordination mechanisms are envisaged:
* Consistent with the objectives of developing a sector-wide approach toward forestry investment, the
National Forest Program Steering Committee will have overall oversight for ensuring that project
activities are implemented in a manner which is consistent with the NFP. The members of the Project
Preparation Working Group (which provided oversight during preparation) have been incorporated into
the NFP Steering Committee, which may choose to constitute a smaller FCMP working group more
closely to follow project implementation. The NFP Steering Committee is constituted of
representatives from MNRT, the Ministry of Finance, the President's Office (Planning and
Privatization), the Policy and Planning Division of MNRT, the Division of Forestry and Beekeeping,
and several donor representatives. The Steering Commnittee has been broadened and includes the
President's Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), the National Land use Planning
Commission, the Vice President's Office (Environment Division), Sokoine University of Agriculture,
and the Private Sector Foundation.
* At the working level, project oversight and management will be the responsibility of a Senior Forestry
Officer, to be appointed by the Permanent Secretary, and supported by procurement and financial
management specialists within the administrative framework of MNRT. FBD will be responsible for
implementing activities to be financed with IDA resources, and has already put in place financial
management and procurement systems to assist in project implementation.
- 18-



FBD already has extensive experience in these areas, through implementation of FRMP. It is
envisaged that FBD is currently not 'LACI capable,' but that a time-bound plan for implementation of
LACI requirements will be prepared. Financial management and procurement specialists will be fully
engaged in the development of this plan as members of the Quality Assurance Team.
*   The Forestry Advisory Group was established by FBD, consistent with its policy objectives of ensuring
better overall coordination at the national level, and will be consulted in an advisory capacity about the
scope and objectives of the proposed investments. The Forestry Advisers Group is comprised of
representatives from the donor conununity with interests in forest sector development, as well as the
NGO and academic community.
Bilateral donors such as Danida (Denmark), DIDC (Finland), SIDA (Sweden), GTZ (Germany) and
NORAD (Norway) have been supporting various types of pilot activities in the forestry sector at district
level. In addition, DIDC has supported the development of the NFP. Through the NFP Steering
Committee and the Forestry Advisory Group efforts will be made to make use of the experience gained and
to coordinate donor support related to the NFP. The aim will be to gradually develop and strengthen a
sector wide approach in the forestry sector adapted to the specific needs and complexities of the sector.
Coordination between GEF Implementing! Agencies
The proposed Eastern Arc forest conservation and management component (for which GEF-financed
activities will be separately Appraised) is an unusual opportunity for collaboration between two GEF
Implementing Agencies. As such, UNDP and the World Bank have different comparative advantages. The
World Bank has been at the forefront as a financier of Government's efforts at civil service reform, and
will take the lead with regard to financing and supervision of institutional activities, in particular, the
development and establishment of the TFS, and institutional reforms leading to better forest conservation.
In addition, the Bank has a comparative advantage in the area of sustainable financing, and will be
responsible for these aspects of the GEF-financed activities. UNDP's strengths are primarily in the area of
capacity building and technical assistance. In this role, UNDP will be responsible for development of the
Conservation Planning sub-component of the GEF financed Eastern Arc activity, and of the pilot
conservation activities in the Uluguru Mountains.
In terms of financial arrangements for implementation of GEF activities, the Implementing Agencies have
presented a single joint GEF proposal to the GEF Council, and, after Appraisal and Board presentation,
will request the GEF Secretariat to make two separate disbursements: through UNDP for $5 million, and to
the World Bank for $7 million. Thereafter the lAs will follow their own intemal project management
processes. For example, UNDP will prepare an Operational Project Document with TORs for key
consultancies and institutional contracts together with FBD and the UNDP Country Office, with detailed
budgets and a workplan. Following approval by the GEF Council, Bank implemented activities will be
separately Appraised and, after Board approval, the Bank will prepare a GEF Grant Agreement which
clarifies the modalities for funds management (including arrangements for procurement and disbursement)
by Government. The Agencies will work together through the NFP Steering Committee and will be
responsible for the preparation of joint reports setting out progress in project preparation.
Financial Mananement
A financial management assessment was carried out during Appraisal mission which indicated that the
Ministry's Finance Department and staff have adequate financial management systems which can provide,
with reasonable assurance, timely information on the status of the project as required by the borrower and
- 19 -



IDA. The government financial management system and controls over public finances have recently been
updated and strengthened under the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) using computerized
accounting software (the so-called 'Platinum' system). A satisfactory project Accounting and Financial
Management Manual describing the accounting system, procedures, internal controls, chart of accounts
and roles and responsibilities of the key staff responsible for IDA finances has been prepared. The
Ministry has wide experience in implementing IDA projects and in managing IDA funds from the previous
Forest Resources Management Project and various PHRD, PPF, and GEF resources. Therefore, the
project financial management system is adequate for the project to be presented to the Board.
A review of accounting and financial management systems concluded that, while FBD has extensive
experience in working with Bank procurement and disbursement, it is currently not capable of complying
with new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Guidelines. An action plan was agreed during
Appraisal which should bring FBD to LACI compliance.
Agreed action plan:
* Before the project is declared effective, an additional Ministry-qualified accountant will be deployed on
a full-time basis to assist the current project accountant in the project financial matters; and
* The project will be reassessed for LACI compliance when a LACI compatible financial reporting
format acceptable to the Bank has been prepared (based on the revised LACI guidelines).
Provided the above steps are taken, it is envisaged that project should be LACI compliant within 18 months
from the date of project effectiveness. The decision to adopt to the periodic report based disbursement
procedures will be made in consultation with a Bank Financial Management Specialist who will:
* review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submnissions, operation of the Special
Account, SOE submissions and documnentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff;
* ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
* review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
* review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts; and
* review the PMR format designed to be used in conjunction with the Platinum computerized accounting
package.
Audited financial statements will be prepared and submitted within 6 months of the close of each Fiscal
Year. The Terms of Reference for the Audit are included in the Accounting and Financial Management
Manual. Audits remain the responsibility of the Controller and Auditor General. Additional costs which
must be incurred to complete the audit will be covered by the proceeds from the Credit.
There are no deviations from standard disbursement arrangements regarding eligibility, funds flow,
disbursement percentages, nor are there any special considerations regarding the use of Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs) or the Special Account. Annex 6 describes proposed Disbursement Arrangements in
greater detail.
- 20 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A follow-on project from the FRMP was considered, involving a continuation of activities related to
woodland management and community forestry within Mwanza and Tabora regions with expansion to
other regions. However, it became apparent in the last two years of FRMP that forest management and
conservation, as well as village and community-based forestry would not succeed within the existing
institutional structure and that major institutional reforms were necessary for any future forestry
interventions to be successful. It had been hoped that the piloting of at least some aspects of a forestry
executive agency could have been undertaken in the latter stages of FRMP, but proposed pilots were never
implemented.
The original project concept also did not include action on plantations. It was felt that any institutional
reform related to forest management and conservation should include all forest resources, and the adoption
of specific policy guidance favoring the role of the private sector in plantation management provided an
excellent context for including this aspect into the project.
Incorporation of a lands component, similar to that under FRMP was also considered. This was rejected as
it was felt that any further investment in lands should be undertaken as a stand-alone project activity.
These choices were intensively discussed amongst various stakeholders. The project concept was
developed through a consultative process, and proposals for project preparation were an outcome of a
strategic planning workshop held in June, 1999.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
t(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Forest and woodland management    Forest Resources Management      S             S
Project
Biodiversity conservation; lake   Lake Victoria Environmental      S             S
ecosystem management              Management Project
Biodiversity conservation         Lower Kihansi Environmental
Management Project
Other development agencies
Catchment protection and biodiversity  East Usambaras Catchment
conservation                      Forestry Project (DIDC);
Forest sector planning            National Forest Program
(DIDC);
Catchment protection and          Natural Resources Management
community-development; forest policy  and Buffer Zone Development
and legislation                   Program (GTZ);
- 21 -



Biodiversity conservation and     Udzungwa Mountains Forest
community development;            Management and Biodiversity
Conservation Project (Danida);
Village-based woodland management  Community-based Natural
Woodlands Management
Project; UTUMI (Lindi)
Woodland Management Project
(Danida);
Catchment protection              Catchment Forestry Program
(Norway);
Biodiversity conservation         Reducing Biodiversity Loss at
Crossborder Sites in East
Africa (GEF/UNDP)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Preparation of this project was delayed until the Implementation Completion Report for the Forest
Resources Management Project was completed, in order to incorporate lessons learned into project design.
A number of activities under FRMP were pilot activities, including those related to Joint Forest
Management, the participation of individuals and communities in the management of woodlands, forestry
extension, forest revenue collection and monitoring, and regional planning and administration of forestry
activities. As the ICR notes, valuable lessons were learnt during project implementation and were
highlighted in several evaluations undertaken prior to project completion. Lessons learnt from FRMP and
applied to the design of FCMP are as follows:
(i)   the concept of strengthening traditional systems of woodland management (ngitiri) is
fundamentally sound and has good replication potential throughout the country. The most
important aspect of the program has been the support it has given to people to act to halt the
disappearance of remaining woodland, and to bring as many pockets of woodland as possible under
rehabilitation. This has been accomplished by working with villagers as the logical, long-term
guardians of forest resources to protect and conserve these resources themselves, at little cost to
government, and through socio-legal mechanisms which they themselves control and maintain
according to their own interests.
(ii)   Community involvement in Joint Forest Management of government forest reserves can lead to an
improvement in the condition of reserves, and to a sharp reduction in the threats they face. The
approaches piloted by FRMP could, however, be strengthened particularly in regard to more fully
transferring decision making responsibilities to the communities involved.
(iii)  More generally, dry woodland management poses good opportunities because of the resilience of
the woodland to harvesting, the cost-effectiveness of relying on natural regeneration with minimal
silvicultural treatments, and because of the few risks to the environment posed by sustainable
management of dry woodland ecosystems.
(iv)   Farmers are apt at adopting simple technologies that are based on the use of inexpensive local
material, such as the improved wood stoves. Higher-tech approaches are not needed and are
difficult to disseminate through extension.
(v)    Project identification and preparation benefited from both the resources which were put into the
effort, but also from the longer term iterative process of project design, and the linkages which
- 22 -



were established with sectoral strategies, such as the Tanzania Forestry Action Plan. Indeed,
experience with the project suggests that there can be significant project implementation benefits
when project identification and preparation is bolstered by strategic studies, action-oriented
research, and ESW.
(vi)   Weaknesses in project performance were often linked with inadequacies in the prevailing
institutional mechanisms for forest management in Tanzania. These place responsibility for forest
management within a decentralized institutional structure, without adequate mechanisms for
ensuring there is technical, administrative, and management oversight. Problems of governance in
the sector are linked to these weaknesses, and future investments will likely be jeopardized in the
absence of institutional reforms. The ICR noted that the problem is widely recognized in
Government, and that the Ministry has made a commitment to launching a reform process which
seeks to address these systemic weaknesses.
(vii)  Technical assistance may sometimes be delivered more effectively if individual consultants are
selected on the basis of professional competence and experience. The packaging of consultancies
into larger packages during the tendering process limited Government's flexibility in finding
qualified individual consultants, though some efficiencies were gained. However, consequent
deficiencies in performance were difficult, time consuming, and costly to rectify. Technical
supervision of advisory services needs to be strengthened and supported.
(viii)  A Project Coordination Unit may facilitate implementation of project activities, but may have little
overall impact on increasing institutional capacity. In the case of FRMP, a PCU was justified on
the basis of the need for coordination between multiple institutional partners, but provided little
scope for the technical oversight needed in the sector. Payment of project allowances may
encourage project staff to work diligently. Given public spending constraints, this approach is not
sustainable in the long-term.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
Since 1996 the Bank has maintained a dialogue with MNRT and FBD on the conceptualization and design
of a future forestry investments that would build on achievements and lessons from FRMP, but which
would consider the forestry sector within Tanzania as a whole and address current important issues. A
letter requesting Bank support for a further forestry project was received by the Bank from MNRT in 1998
and the Government's own concept paper was completed and sent to the Bank in 1998, following several
discussions between the government stakeholders and Bank officers. The project as designed incorporates
the Government concepts, but further preparation was delayed until the ICR for FRMP was completed.
Government has also seen that any future project would require the support of a new policy for forestry and
to this end it has, over the last two years, vigorously pursued the formulation and eventual adoption of the
new Forest Policy (March, 1998) and is continuing to push for the required legislative changes to support
the new policy.
The overall framework for public expenditure and donor support to the forestry sector is set out in the
National Forest Program, which has been prepared to guide the implementation of the new forest policy.
Both the NFP and the National Forest Policy provide important guidance in establishing priorities which
will be captured in the Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, which is under preparation. FCMP is the
principal financial delivery mechanism for the National Forest Program, and proposed GEF support has
been fully blended into this IDA operation. Additional bilateral support for implementation of the NFP is
in the process of being mobilized.
- 23 -



5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The involvement of the Bank would allow valuable lessons and initiatives started under the previous FRMP
and other donor projects to be put into effect and a scaled-up approach to forest management and
conservation taken under FCMP. These include a more effective institutional approach to forest
management and conservation as well as the application of improved participatory approaches to forest
management and the involvement of the private sector as the key manager in industrial plantations.
The participation of the GEF and the establishment of a sustainable financing mechanism for ongoing
conservation of the Eastem Arc Mountain Forests, and, eventually, other endangered areas of biodiversity
in Tanzania makes it possible for an integrated and participatory intervention to safeguard one of the
world's most important ecosystems. Added value from the Bank's perspective comes from its global
experience in the design, implementation and financing of biodiversity conservation and GEF projects. The
GEF involvement makes possible a conservation programn that would otherwise have been difficult to
achieve.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
0 Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
The institutional reforms which FCMP seeks to support through the National Forest Program are intended
to help to establish a new institutional framework, which is primarily oriented toward improving service
delivery functions: facilitating villages to establish Village Forest Reserves, strengthening the capacity for
the management of strategic forest reserves which are being maintained in the national interest, improving
the financial sustainability of forest management interventions, other local conservation and protection
measures, and strengthening the role of the private sector in industrial plantation management.
The current constraints in the forest sector in Tanzania call for a comprehensive approach to the
development of a sector-wide approach toward forest conservation and management. Public financing of
woodland and forest conservation and management is justified both from the perspective of their role in
mitigating the impacts of poverty as well as from the perspective of the environmental value of forests
and woodlands as watershed catchments, which maintain water flows to urban areas and to hydroelectric
generating facilities. Other environmental benefits from forest and woodland conservation and management
accrue because of the value of carbon sequestration. [An Incremental Cost Analysis has been prepared
for those components of the project which specifically focus on conservation of Eastern Arc Mountains
forest biodiversity (to be financed by GEF), and this will be reviewed separately when these activities are
Appraised.]
A separate analysis of the industrial timber plantation sector was prepared which sought to estimate the
value of the industrial timber plantation resource, and the economics of project interventions, and this is
summarized in the Annex.
Poverty impacts. Tanzania's woodland and forests are extremely important for mitigating the impacts of
rural poverty. Recent studies have shown that fully 40 percent of total household consumption in some
- 24 -



rural areas is accounted for by forest and woodland products such as honey production, firewood,
construction material, and wild fruit and other foods (a point noted in Tanzania's Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper). In addition, forests and woodlands are an important source of dry season grazing,
reducing households' exposure to environmental risk. Rural households generally use a wide variety of
environmental resources from woodlands, and the sizable aggregate value of environmentally-derived
income is made up of a fairly large number of smaller individual income sources. There is considerable
complexity in the factors which determine levels of resource use: different households use different
resources for different reasons at different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the rural poor are
heavily dependent on resources derived from forests and woodlands, and deforestation and forest
degradation poses a significant threat to rural livelihoods.
FCMP is designed in part to increase the capacity of villages to manage woodlands. It derives from
experience with pilot and other operations across Tanzania, which suggested significant scope for
improving the effectiveness of this approach toward village-based management. As such, FCMP is seeking
to facilitate the development of local management schemes through cost-effective interventions which serve
primarily to inform villages and communities of policy and legal changes which underpin their rights over
local woodland resources.
Environmental values and the national economy. While the biodiversity of the Tanzania's tropical high
forests is of extraordinary international significance and locally is of great value for mitigating the impacts
of poverty, the value of these forests to the national economy, primarily through water and energy
production, is of great national importance. The Eastern Arc forests, for example, cover several major
catchments which collectively provide water for all of the nation's coastal communities (including Dar es
Salaam with its population of 3 million). These mountain forests feed more than 22 rivers, including the
Sigi, Ruvu, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The Uluguru catchment, for example, provides the main source of
drinking water to both Morogoro town and Dar es Salaam. Hydroelectric energy production is similarly
heavily dependent on maintaining the integrity of these forests. Total installed electric generating capacity
in Tanzania (maximum annual firm energy) is 1323 GWh (1:60 year reliability). Hydroelectricity accounts
for 720 GWh (54 percent) of the total. Of the 6 hydroelectric stations (Mtera, Kidatu and Lower Kihansi
in the Rufiji Basin, and Nyumba ya Mungu, Hale, and New Pangani Falls on the Pangani River), only 2
(Mtera and Kidatu) have seasonal storage capacity. The rest are 'run-of-the-river' facilities which depend
on more or less constant river flow, which, in turn, is dependent on the integrity of watershed catchments
and the forests found there.
Other environmental services captured by the macro-economy associated with Tanzania's forests impact
positively on agricultural production and also result from timber harvesting (both through the legal and
illegal felling of trees used in construction and to make furniture and charcoal). More recently a small
ecotourism industry has developed. There are some indications of a growing trade in threatened species of
insects and reptiles. Accordingly, there is a strong need for sustainable use of forest products for these
purposes and activities such as tourism which maximize the non-destructive uses of forests.
Carbon sequestration. Simply because of their very great extent in Tanzania, miombo woodlands in
particular have great potential for adding to the growing carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere, or
helping to reduce it. A well stocked hectare of miombo woodland can sequester 200 to 300 tons of carbon.
Various sources place the economic value of sequestered carbon at $5 to $10 per ton, and so there are
considerable benefits to be gained by conserving miombo, by increasing rates of sequestration, or by
limiting future losses. For example, against miombo stocks of around 30 million ha in Tanzania, stocked at
a rate of 150 tons of carbon per hectare, an increase in carbon sequestration of a tenth of a percent over the
life of the project would yield around US$ 22 million in global environmental benefits.
- 25 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Considering the extent of the asset, public funding for forestry is generally inadequate and irregular. Over
the last 10 years, budgets to the Forest and Beekeeping Division have been increasing in nominal terms --
growing four-fold from 1993/94 to 1999/2000 -- though have remained roughly constant when inflation is
taken into account. In 1999/2000 FBD's recurrent expenditure was around TSh 2.3 billion (US$ 2.9
million at the then prevailing exchange rate). Out of this TSh 1.3 billion came from the Treasury and
covered staff salaries; TSh 980 million was from revenue collected and retained by FBD and was used for
forest operations. This sum is intended to provide for the management of around 13 million ha (averaging
about US$ 0.22 per ha). Outside of specific donor-financed activities, development and recurrent costs are
partly financed by retained revenues, which currently total around 56 percent of all revenues collected from
the sale of timber and other products from central govemment Forest Reserves. For the most part, FBD
relies on District staff (rather than FBD staff) to collect revenues, with the exception of the plantation
sector, which accounts for around 40 percent of total revenues collected. In 1999/2000, revenues from
Central Government Forest Reserves (including plantations) totalled roughly TSh 2 billion (around US
$2.5 million at the exchange rate which prevailed at the time). FBD total recurrent and development
expenditures in 1999/2000 (including a proportion of, but not all, donor-financed expenditure) totalled
around TSh 5.6 billion.
Financing of the forestry sector by the donor community peaked in 1991/92, when donor spending
accounted for 90 percent of all spending in the forestry sector. Currently, it is estimated to account for
around 68 percent of all spending in the forestry sector. It is difficult to compare the efficiency of public
vs. donor spending because of the highly distorted impact of heavy investments in relatively expensive
technical assistance to manage donor financed projects.
The bulk of donor assistance, however, is not mediated by the budget process. As much as 60 percent of
donor investments in forestry are not captured by the budget. In this environment, arguably, donor
resources are financing donor priorities, rather than the priorities outlined in Tanzania's forest policy. It is
widely agreed that the donor community needs to focus its priorities in a manner which is more carefully
aligned with Government's. The National Forest Program poses a mechanism for doing this.
The development of a sector-wide approach to financing of the forestry sector is a longer term objective of
FCMP. Investments in improving financial management, procurement management, overall institutional
management, and in meeting service delivery standards are intended to establish the institutional framework
for a sector-wide approach.
Fiscal Impact:
Improvements in the framework for royalty collection are expected to strengthen the overall financial
sustainability of the Tanzania Forest Service. FCMP proposes to change the overall framework, and to
develop the means for returning revenues to villages and other forest managers.
3. Technical:
Miombo woodland management options are being developed and tested by the Tanzania Forest Research
Institute (TAFORI), and some experience in this area was also gained as a result of FRMP. These findings
will be more fully developed, and research recommendations to improve woodland regeneration will be
- 26 -



implemented through the project. Lessons with regard to the involvement of communities in forest
management, gained from FRMP and other donor-assisted efforts, have been incorporated into the project's
design. Collaboration with other research initiatives through the Center for International Forestry
Research, and with WWF will be strengthened.
4. Institutional:
Institutional reform comprises a central element of this project. The formation of the Tanzania Forest
Service has already been through initial processing within the context of the Civil Service Reform Program
and the Executive Agency Program, and it has been recommended that the TFS be established as a
'self-starter,' with the assistance of the CSD.
The structure, staffing, and functions, of the TFS, as well as links with the MNRT, FBD and district
administrations remain to be determined, and these planning steps will feature prominently during project
implementation.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project is to be executed by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism. Close cooperation during
implementation is expected with the Institute of Resources Assessment and its Tanzania Natural Resources
Information Center, Sokoine University of Agriculture, the Civil Service Department, and TAFORI. Local
government will also be a critical partner during implementation.
Implementation of GEF-financed institutional reform activities is also to be executed by the Ministry, but in
close collaboration with other local organizations, the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment
Fund, and other groups active in conservation in Tanzania.
The Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund is expected to implement the sustainable
financing initiative with IDA and GEF resources. The EAMCEF is a Non-Governmental Organization
established by a deed of trust under the Trustees' Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) which has been
registered with the Administrator General of Trustees. An Inaugural Board has been established and is
comprised of representatives of the public sector, the private sector, and environmental NGOs.
4.2 Project management:
It is envisaged that FBD is currently not 'LACI capable,' but that a time-bound plan for implementation of
LACI requirements will be prepared. Financial management and procurement specialists will be fully
engaged in the development of this plan as members of the Quality Assurance Team.
Modalities for the management of the planned Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund will
be developed during project preparation. The development of these modalities is likely to continue during
project implementation. It is not envisaged that the Trust will be fully operational until the third year of
project implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement and Disbursement issues are summarized in Ainex 6.
- 27 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
A Financial Management Capacity Assessment was completed in conjunction with the Appraisal Mission
and is in the project files (Financial Management Assessment, Ministry of Natural Resources and
Tourism, October 25, 2001).
There are no significant financial management risks faced by Tanzania which are expected to impact the
project. The recently completed Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) indicated that
Government has established a sound financial management and accounting system to handle public
accounts. Already there has been an on-going special training program in place since July 2001 for
government accountants, auditors, Permanent Secretaries and Members of Parliament on the control and
management of government funds and properties which is based on new legislation. The main issues of the
existing public sector system that can be drawn from the CFAA which are relevant to the project include:
(i) non-compliance with statutory rules and regulations and record management; lack of sustainable
technical capacity and Information Technology (IT) strategy to manage Government's Integrated Financial
Management System (IFMS); lack of culture of accountability and enforcement of internal controls on the
public fimances; (ii) lack of independency of public national audit office; ineffective internal auditing.
In order to address the above gaps, there are on-going institutional capacity building activities underway to
strengthen the public accounting system.
With respect to audit compliance and FBD/MNRT audits for FRMP, these were consistently clean. Audits
for the PPF-financed activities and the PHRD grants are up-to date, and clean. There are no audit reports
outstanding under this sector.
There are no major financial risks for this project. The additional support of a qualified accountant from
the Ministry is important to ensure that qualified financial staff are adequate for handling project accounts,
for ensuring there is capacity building within the Ministry in financial management.
Building on past experience with implementation of PHRD/GEF/PPF-financed activities, banking
arrangements are expected to be satisfactory.
Audited financial statements (project, SOEs, and Special Account/ PMR) will be prepared and submitted
within 6 months of the close of each Fiscal Year. The Terms of Reference for the Audit are included in the
Accounting and Financial Management Manual. Audits remain the responsibility of the Controller and
Auditor General. Additional costs which may be incurred to complete the audit will be covered by the
project. Documentation with respect to SOE/PMR expenditures will be retained by the Ministry at the
Ivory Rooms.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project has been classified as Category B with respect to its expected environmental impacts. The
project is not expected to result in any significant negative environmental or social impacts.
An analysis of Environmental and Social issues related to the project was carried out during project
preparation and is included as Annex 11 to this Project Appraisal Document. Preparation of the analysis
- 28 -



was launched during the February 2001 stakeholder workshop convened in Dar es Salaamn which reviewed
the project formulation and the key issues which were emerging during the preparation process. The
analysis was completed during the June 2001 Technical Mission, where the preliminary findings were
discussed and agreed with Governnent.
The key issues related to environmental and social safeguards are summarized here:
*   Adequacy of implementing institutions to address environmental management - OP/BP 4.01.
Although there are significant shortcomings in the national environmental management and regulatory
framework have been highlighted, the forest sector has a strong assortment of provisions to address
virtually all potential environmental concerns that which arise as a result of this project. These are
specifically contained in the relevant forest sector policy, National Forest Program, and draft revisions
to forestry legislation. In aggregate, Tanzania's forest policy framework is one of the most
constructive and forward looking in Africa.
* Financing commercial logging operations or the purchase of logging equipment for use in primary
tropical moist forests - OP/GP 4.36. Consistent with the Bank's current Forest Policy, the project will
not finance any activities which lead to the logging of high forests. The project will be supporting
commercial operations only in plantation forests. These forests consist of eucalyptus, cypress, pine
and teak - most of which were established over the last 30 years. The current standing crop has a
history going back decades on land that was never covered by tropical moist forest, but was primarily
grassland. The sixteen plantation forest blocks covered by the project will continue to undertake
silvicultural practices including harvest and replanting. Participatory forest management plans will
allow for expansion of village and community based plantation woodlots, but only with management
plans that ensure protection of sensitive, biologically important and watershed catchinents.
* Use of a sector-wide approach for forest management - OP/GP 4.36. The National Forest Policy,
National Forest Program, draft forestry legislation, and technical guidelines all constitute essential
components of a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector in Tanzania. All of the Bank's policy
commitments in this regard have been addressed by GOT and include: adoption of policies and a legal
institutional framework for forest management; adoption of an appropriate forestry conservation and
development plan; use of social, economic and environmental assessments of commercial forests;
setting aside compensatory preservation forests; and establishment of institutional capacity to
implement and enforce these commitments.
*   Protection offorest areas that are considered critical natural habitats and preservation and
sustainable use offorests of high ecological value - OP/GP 4.36, OP/BP 4.04. The project
proposes to support a number of activities within its three components that will adhere to forest sector
provisions for identification, protection and management of critical habitats. These include, in
particular, catchments and the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests. The sustainable management of dry
woodlands, however, is expected to be an outcome of project implementation. Ultimately, the
environmental benefits of this approach are expected to be substantial, and will provide significant
opportunities for increasing the viability of managed miombo woodlands. Miombo woodlands are
unusual in the extent to which they are extremely resilient to harvesting, and regenerate readily. Once
miombo woodlands have been harvested, research has shown that regeneration is actually enhanced by
the tillage of soils, suggesting that the management of settlement in woodland areas may be an effective
woodland management strategy -- resulting in higher yields and better overall productivity -- than
outright miombo conservation or selective harvesting. Forest management plans to be promoted by
FBD will contribute to increasing the viability of these woodlands. The participatory forest
- 29 -



management approach advocated in the project also provides for local communities and forest users to
identify and manage ecologically important forest areas based on their own needs.
*   Stakeholder consultation including the private sector and localpeople in forest management -
OP/GP 4.36. Provisions for continuing stakeholder consultations are made in the three project
components. For National Forests, Local Authority Forests, Village and Community Forests, and
Private Forests, the basic premise for future sustainable use is the development of forest management
plans that are defined by a stakeholder involved process. FCMP has specified particular provisions for
ensuring that all stakeholders, from the private sector to local people, are included in the development
of forest management plans.
*   Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement as it applies in particular to encroachment in forest
reserves - OP/BP 4.12 The problem of encroachment in reserved forests has been a long-standing
one, and accompanied the move to a more open economy which took place in the early 1990s.
Government has put in place various mechanisms to limit the problem of encroachment, including
boundary demarcation, increased patrols, voluntary resettlement, and the development of benefit
sharing schemes for communities living in buffer zones around reserved forests. Proactive strategies,
such as the potential for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves offer perhaps the best
opportunities for bringing communities and people living in forested areas into forest protection and
management schemes. Experience has shown that reservation as a Government forest, as such, is
amongst the most costly and least effective mechanisms for limiting damage to woodlands and forests.
MNRT has developed a set of detailed guidelines for community based forest management which
define methods for defining forest reserve boundaries, identifying encroachment problems, consulting
with offenders and establishing fines and provisions for getting such offenders off designated lands.
The Land Act also contains specifications for ensuring that peoples rights are duly respected and that
in cases where land appropriation is required, due compensation is provided. Measures for appeals and
investigations are also defined.
Government reiterated during preparation that involuntary resettlement would not be carried out in
conjunction with any project implementation activity. Government has also agreed that in the
unforeseen event that involuntary resettlement becomes necessary in the course of project
implementation, a detailed resettlement plan to be completed and subject to IDA review well in advance
of any resettlement actions associated with any of the project components.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The project's Category B rating does not require preparation of an Environmnental Management Plan. The
Environmental Analysis, however, recommends that an environmental and social safeguards checklist
should be incorporated into the Guidelines for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, that detailed
socio-economic studies should be carried out in the pilot industrial plantation areas affected by private
sector involvement once these are identified, and that the impact of the Participatory Forest Management
component and other project activities on the integrity of tropical high forests should be monitored.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: September 1, 2001
The Environmental Analysis of the project has been completed and is included as Annex 11 to this Project
Appraisal Document.
- 30 -



5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmental rating for the project was based on the results of consultations during workshops in June
1999 and February 2001. The findings of the Environmental Analysis were discussed with Government
and with key stakeholders during the June 2001 Technical Mission.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The development of an improved institutional capacity to screen and monitor projects related to the forestry
sector for their environmental impact is expected to be an outcome of the proposed institutional reforms,
and the establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service. The project includes provision for building this
capacity in the proposed TFS.
A safeguard monitoring plan has been developed, and is outlined in Annex 11, to ensure that safeguard
provisions are adequately implemented and sustained. The monitoring program will be further developed,
and will indicate how well each of the components is implementing the key provisions defined previously.
The monitoring plan will define indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of
measurements, detection limits, and monitoring responsibilities. The plan will be implemented within the
overall context of institutional reforms in the Forestry and Beekeeping Division. The plan will include a
description of how reviews of selected issues of concern will be undertaken.
The safeguard indicators and monitoring plan will be incorporated into overall project monitoring and
evaluation. MNRT will be the ultimate GOT information focal point. The Bank will include in the project
supervision plan the participation of an environmental specialist in selected missions, the Mid-Term Review
and in the Implementation Completion Report. This specialist will review progress in implementation of
the project safeguard provisions.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The democratizing impact associated with the establishment of Village Forest Reserves has been significant
in Tanzania, and will continue to be so during the course of project implementation. The project will have
social impacts as a result of the participation of rural communities and families in the conservation and
management of woodlands as well as in the development of the forest conservation strategy, and in the
implementation of pilot activities, in the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests. These actions should yield positive
social benefits. However, all this will require a high degree of social interaction with the relevant
communities, and project management will need to be sensitive to this requirements. The approaches to
participatory management of the woodlands should also take note of the recommendations from the
evaluation ofjoint forest management and ngitiri registration under FRMP and from experiences in other
projects with related activities.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders are primarily communities with interests in woodland and forest conservation and
management. The central feature of the Participatory Forest Management sub-component of the
- 31 -



Institutional reform component seeks to strengthen the involvement of these stakeholders in forest and
woodland management.
With respect to the GEF component, preparation of the conservation strategy for the Eastem Arc will
require extensive consultation with communities and local governments in order to seek to develop a
consensus about conservation and management of the forests of the Arc. Implementation of the Uluguru
Community-based conservation component will be carried out in conjunction with several strong local
NGOs. The Eastem Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF) has already been
constituted as an NGO, and will be the primary implementing agency of the sustainable financing
subcomponent of the project. Key partners working with the EAMCEF are represented on its Board and
are prescribed in its Deed of Trust. These include WWF Tanzania, the Wildlife Conservation Society of
Tanzania (WCST), Songas, and an academic/research institution (to be identified).
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Implementation of the Community-based pilot forest conservation activities and management of the
EAMCEF will be undertaken in the close cooperation with NGOs and other Civil Society organizations.
Potential collaborators may include CARE Tanzania, the Tanzania Forest Conservation Group (TFCG),
Tanzania Association of Foresters (TAF), WWF Tanzania, and WCST. Delete the rest from CARE/TZ
up to (among others).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Strong institutional support and capacity building will feature in the institutional reform process, with a
particular emphasis on building the capacity to undertake participatory forest management.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Social development outcomes will be monitored as a regular part of the project supervision process.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project complies with the applicable safeguards policies. Compliance is reviewed in Section E.5.
- 32 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability is dependent on four key elements:
(i)    The successful establishment of a TFS. Success would include effectively functioning
forest/woodland management and protection operations in forest reserves within designated
districts and villages.
(ii)   Adequate collection of forest revenues to sustain the TFS with benefit sharing arrangements with
Villages. There is considerable potential to improve rates of revenue collection, well above current
levels (estimated at around 10 percent of the revenues which are due).
(iii)  The development of a sustainable mechanism for financing biodiversity conservation, including
guidelines for the establishment and management of trust funds and other financial mechanisms.
(iv)   Acceptance by Government at the highest level of principles of sustainable forest management and
biodiversity conservation, to complement village-based forest management. Such acceptance
would need to be translated into active support for the activities such as those under FCMP.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
There is continued strong support for      M         Service delivery orientation is incorporated in
introducing institutional reforms which              institutional change proposals; Performance
focus on service delivery functions and              monitoring mechanisms are developed and
mechanisms;                                          implemented.
The need for revenue to sustain the        M         The potential for revenue sharing is more fully
institutional structure can be balanced              developed; project coordinates with fiscal
with the need for communities to retain              decentralization initiatives.
benefits from forest and woodland
management;
Encroachment issues are adequately          S        Encroachment issues were reviewed during
considered.                                          project preparation. GOT intends to address
encroachment through participatory forestry,
improved boundary marking, border patrols, and
other initiatives.
Government maintains its commitment to     M         Potential revenue benefits are expected to be
the involvement of the private sector in             significant.
industrial plantation production;
Biodiversity conservation remains a        N         Catchment protection as an outcome of forest
priority for Government action.                      biodiversity conservation has significant
national value.
From Components to Outputs
Management and staff of sectoral            S        Focus on performance monitoring is intended to
institutions internalize the change process;         build new institutional behaviors;
Service delivery mechanisms can be fully   N         Project builds on pilot activities already
articulated;                                         completed in FRMP and through other
- 33 -



interventions;
Communities and individuals have interest  M         Experience with pilot initiatives suggest villages
and capacity to undertake forest and                 will have strong interests in community-based
woodland management;                                 woodland and forest management; Land tenure
reforms strongly supportive of local natural
resource management.
Private sector has capacity to undertake    S        Risk assessments will be carried out as part of
plantation management, and markets can               project preparation;
support these investments;
Community interests in biodiversity        N         Project design is intended to focus on ensuring
conservation can be tapped;                          long term sustainable use of forests;
Co-financing for sustainable financing     M         Phased implementation of Endowment Fund
mechanisms can be mobilized.                         depends on donor co-financing.
Resistance to professional and              S        Project will work with established mechanisms
institutional change limits effectiveness of         already in place for institutional reform through
reform process                                       the CSD.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Private sector involvement in plantation production, while mandated in policy, has not been undertaken in
Tanzania. Multiple stakeholders with competing interests require that adequate consultations are
undertaken before moving forward with this component.
Village-based approaches to the conservation of ecologically sensitive areas will require adequate
safeguards to ensure that villages protect these habitats. There is considerable skepticism amongst
conservation NGOs that villages have the capacity to take on forest biodiversity conservation.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Association;
* the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system acceptable to the
Association; and
*   the Borrower has appointed to MNRT a Project Accountant with terms of reference, qualifications, and
experience acceptable to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 34 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Peter A. Dewees                   Agi Kiss 4                        James W. Adams
Team Leader                       Sector Manager                   'ountry ManagerlDirector
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Improving environmental   Better woodland and forest  Forest sector ESW          * Stabilizing forests and
quality                   conservation and management                              improving livelihood
by communities and                                       sources for local people
individuals                                              help alleviate poverty in
a significant way
Promoting poverty reduction  Increased private sector  Baseline and monitoring   * Private sector has
through private sector growth investments in forest  reports and ESW               capacity to manage
management and industry                                 forests, and markets are
accessible
Civil service reform      Improved performance of   Performance monitoring       * Reforms are sustainable
forestry institutions     reports
GEF Operational Program:
Forest Ecosystems
Operational Program
Promoting in-situ         Extent of forests brought  Baseline and monitoring     * Government maintains
conservation by relying on the under community-based  reports                      commitment to
involvement of communities  conservation                                           principles of
Biodiversity Convention
Promoting sustainable use  Forest cover loss is slowed  GIS and aerial surveys;
mechanisms for biodiversity                          household consumption
conservation                                        surveys
Promoting cost-effective  Conservation measures are  Sectoral expenditure reviews
conservation measures     financially sustainable
Project Development       Outcome I Impact          Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To assist Government in   Forest and woodland cover is  Quarterly monitoring reports  * Government remains
implementing its new policy, brought under effective                               committed to the
by developing a framework  management by communities  Household surveys            objectives of the
for the long-term sustainable  and individuals in project                          National Forest Policy
management and conservation areas                    Supervision mission reports   and of the National
of Tanzania's forest resources,                                                    Forest Program
strengthening the role of  Private sector is involved in  Evaluation mission reports  * Government remains
individuals, communities,  plantation management    (mid-term and final)           committed to supporting
villages, and the private sector                                                   participatory forest
in management and         Mechanisms for forest                                    conservation and
conservation of forests, and  biodiversity conservation are                        management
implementing this framework more fully established
on a pilot scale
- 36 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
The project is expected to:
(i) establish a new national  New institution is in place  Annual work programs and  * Continued strong
forestry institutional    with improved capacity for  forward budgets              support for reforms
framework effectively to  implementing policy                                      which focus on service
support the sustainable   objectives, improved financial Performance monitoring    delivery functions and
management and protection of sustainability, and with a  reports and service delivery  mechanisms
Tanzania's forest, woodland  greater focus on service  surveys                   * Encroachment issues are
and industrial plantation  delivery                                                adequately resolved
resources;                                          Project supervision reports    during project design
(ii) establish the framework  Private sector is involved in                      * Continued commitment
for involvement of the private plantation development and                          to involvement of the
sector in industrial plantation management                                         private sector
development and
management; and
(iii) develop the institutional  Institutional structure and
capacity within the forestry  capacity is in place, backed up
sector for coordination,  by sound consultative
financing, and management  management planning, and
of biodiversity conservation  financial mechanisms, to
interventions within      undertake community-based
Tanzania's forests, in    conservation of forest
particular in the forests of the ecosystems
Eastern Arc mountains.
- 37 -



|                         |    Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        I                            Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                         Outputs)
1. Reform of forestry     US$ 25.2 million (IDA)    Progress and disbursement   * Management and staff
institutions                                        reports                       of sectoral institutions
a) Establishment of the                                                           internalize the change
Tanzania Forest Service                                                        process
b) Improving revenue                                                            * Service delivery
collection from forests                                                        mechanisms can be fully
and woodlands                                                                  articulated
c) Improving service delivery                                                   * Communities and
mechanisms for                                                                  individuals have interest
participatory forest                                                           and capacity to
and woodland                                                                   undertake forest and
management                                                                      woodland management
2. Private sector         US$ 3.3 million (IDA)     Progress and disbursement   * Private sector has
manannement of industrial                           reports                       capacity to undertake
plantations                                                                       plantation management
a) Improving the plantation                                                       and markets can support
resource information base                                                       these investments
and management planning
capacity
b) Strengthening institutional
support services for private
sector involvement
c) Pilot alternative
management of selected
industrial plantations
d) Monitoring and evaluation
3. Eastern Arc forests    US$ 7 million (GEF)       Progress and disbursement   * Political support for
conservation and          US$ 2 million (IDA)       reports                       biodiversity
management                                                                        conservation is
a) Eastern Arc Mountains                                                          maintained
Conservation Endowment                                                       * Community interests in
Fund                                                                           biodiversity
b) Improving Institutional                                                        conservation can be
Support Services                                                               tapped
for forest biodiversity                                                      * Co-financing for
conservation                                                                   sustainable financing
mechanisms can be
mobilized
4. Proiect administration  US$ 0.6 million (IDA)    Progress and disbursement  * Project activities are
and management                                     reports                       mainstreamed into the
operations of the Ministry
- 38 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
This Annex is condensed from the Working Papers which describe each project component more
fully, and which comprise part of the Project Implementation Plan. Project costs include IDA and
GEF financing (where appropriate), and all contingencies and counterpart financing.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$26.70 million
Supporting institutional change and improving service delivery
This component will assist the government with the design and establishment of the Tanzania Forest
Service (TFS), as a specialized 'executive agency' as defined by the Executive Agencies Act (1997), and
consistent with the wider and on-going national program of civil service reform. It is envisaged that the
Tanzania Forest Service will, among other things, have responsibility for the protection and management of
natural forests and the development and management of industrial plantations (including promoting the
private sector to take on these tasks). Initially, the agency will be established on a limited basis with clearly
defined regional responsibilities and coverage, although the concept is that an agency with a national
mandate will eventually be established. Technical assistance will be provided to work with FBD and the
Civil Service Department (CSD) and other relevant government agencies to design the structure and
functions of the agency and to draw up the necessary implementation plans and guidelines for establishment
of the agency, including the formulation of business and staff recruitment plans. This component will also
provide support to build on experience from previous Bank-financed operations, and upon the opportunities
posed by the new Forest Policy, and planned legislation.
Three sub-components of this activity are envisaged:
(i)    Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service, focusing on the phased-in introduction of the new
executive agency, with clearly defined roles, functions, performance standards, and monitoring.
This sub-component would provide resources to manage the change process, to strengthen the
capacity for administration and management, to rationalize and to strengthen the capacity for tasks
related to policy, planning, and legislation (which would remain with the Ministry), and would
support a badly-needed program of investment in infrastructure.
(ii)  Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands, improving the capacity of the TFS to
become self-financing, and to ensure that revenues are reinvested at the local level in forest
protection and management through local institutions. This component will develop altemative
revenue collection mechanisms, and monitoring systems to improve rates of collection.
(iii)  Improving service-delivery mechanisms for participatory forest and woodland management,
in particular, support for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, woodland management by
individuals and communities (ngitiri), and Joint Forest Management, building on experiences
piloted in earlier operations. This sub-component will be implemented in conjunction with
community-based forest management activities which, it is envisaged, will be supported by the
Government of Denmark.
- 39 -



A mid-term review would determine outstanding issues and provide recommendations for improving the
efficiency and effectiveness of the TFS. A further evaluation will be undertaken prior to project completion
and, as well as determining the degree of achievement and success of the TFS, will develop lessons for the
future. The three sub-components are described here in further detail:
Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service (US$14.2 million)
The rationale for the establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service has been clearly established both in
policy and in the National Forest Programn (NFP). The project intends to finance a process which leads to
the establishment of the TFS. The process of establishing an Agency is defined by guidelines and criteria
outlined by the Civil Service Department. The design of this subcomponent adheres closely to these
criteria. Four sets of activities will be financed under this sub-component.
Change management
The project will provide resources to launch the process of change management in FBD, including the
establishment and operation of an Implementation Team, training to assist the Ministry in managing the
process of change, development of an organizational structure consistent with the functions of an Agency
which are envisaged in policy, and human resource actions to ensure that staff deployment and
remuneration is consistent with broader principles of the change process. Central to the process of change
management will be a series of stakeholder consultations with FBD staff, as well as with the private sector
and local government to clarify the Agency's primary service delivery functions.
Capacity building for administration and management
Fragmented donor financing for the forestry sector, through stand-alone interventions with their own
support services and processes, has limited their effectiveness in addressing national forest policy concems.
More effective deployment of donor assistance through the Ministry will depend on robust procurement and
financial management processes being in place. The project will provide resources to improve the capacity
of the Ministry and the Agency to handle financial and procurement management, largely focusing on
training in the use and application of new nationally accepted procurement processes and financial
management packages. In addition, the project will finance an assessment of the Agency's Information
Technology requirements, and will prepare a program of investment in improving IT services which
respond to institutional needs and requirements, including financial management.
Strengthening policy and planning services
The Ministry will retain core responsibilities for strategic planning and policy development. The project
will provide resources to improve this capacity, while providing scope for wider stakeholder consultation
about policy formulation. Related to the process of change management is the question of how the
Ministry's remaining functions will be rationalized.
Capital investments in infrastructure
Ministry staff in Dar es Salaam currently occupy multiple office premises, some of which have been
occupied for as long as 40 years, with little new investment in infrastructure. The delivery of core services
is constrained by this fragmentation, and is compounded by the problem of shuttling between offices and
coordinating internal staff placement. The long standing need for improved infrastructure was recognized
during the preparation of FRMP, and though finance for civil works was provided under that project,
- 40 -



delays in procurement prevented the construction of new facilities. FCMP will finance the construction of
new office facilities for headquarters and Ministry staff to address these constraints.
In addition, the project will finance an assessment of regional and district infrastructure needs, and will
provide modest support for this infrastructure as an outcome of this assessment. These investments are to
be undertaken in a manner consistent with the wider mission of the TFS, as well as with the on-going
program of local government reform.
Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands (US$4. 0 million)
This sub-component will provide resources for the design and implement a coherent forestry revenue
strategy to increase net revenues. These revenues need to be retained and transferred in a way that service
provision activities and enforcement can be successfully implemented. Three sets of activities are envisaged
under this sub-component.
IMproving non-tax revenue administration
The output of this activity would be an improved non-tax revenue administration system. The activity
would support a redesign of licenses or transit passes to make forgery, multiple use and other abuses more
difficult, a cleaning up of the funds transfer system, an investigation into the use of penalties and
infornants, and several meetings to discuss the results. This component is considered a "stop-gap"
approach to temporarily improve financial administration until the results of the pilot reforms can be
incorporated.
The project would finance audits of revenue collection in 25 key Districts which would be carried out by
external (local) auditors and auditors within FBD. The audits would collect informnation on the accounting
of financial docunents (registers, receipt books, licenses, and transit passes) and would cover checkpoints
in an effort to reconcile originals and duplicates. Financial transfers would be reconciled with headquarters
records. The results of the Audits would be written into a reporting framework, and a presented at a
workshop which would focus on key elements of the systems' design and its strengths and weaknesses. On
the basis of the workshop and the audit results, a system of funds transfer would be designed, which would
cover relevant information which would be submitted by districts. The information would likely include
(but is unlikely to be limited to): revenue by product (charcoal, registration fees, timber, etc.) and revenue
from each forest.
As an outcome of the consultation process, key documents would be redesigned to minimize evasion, fraud
and forgery: felling licenses, Transit passes, and others. Penalties for non-compliance with the regulatory
framework would be reviewed and revised. Stricter deterrent penalties would be developed and introduced.
Studies would also assess estimated central government and district revenue losses due to improper record
keeping and study the feasibility of intensified auditing. Based on results from the audits and workshops, a
simplified MIS would be developed which tracks forest royalties by product (charcoal, timber, fuelwood)
and forest reserve.
Redesigning a revenue collection system
Fundamentally, however, the revenue collection system requires a complete overhaul and redesign to
complement a production based system of taxation to either a transport or market based one. Experience
has shown that a new system, which should be introduced on a pilot basis, should be transport based, and
royalties will be paid at the Regional or District level for a "Transport License" or "Transport Time Pass."
- 41 -



Under this system, a parallel system of "extraction fees" will exist and these will be entirely retained by the
manager of each forest. As best as possible, current royalty levels (rates) will be maintained, but this will
require a breakdown between "extraction fees" and "transit fees." Two pilot operations are envisaged: one
in Dar es Salaam which is specific to a single product and market (charcoal), and a second in Mwanza,
which covers multiple products and product delivery systems.
Monitoring, seizure and confiscation may be carried out by FBD but also by other "partners" such as
TRA, Local Governments, and the traffic police. The cooperation of these partners and the terms of the
agreement will have to be worked out before the pilot can commence. Transit revenues will have to be
shared with Local Authorities on an agreed upon basis. New legislation (Rules) will have to be passed
dictating rates and coverage. An intensive promotional and informational campaign will be necessary as
long as the penalties for non-compliance are high.
The pilots will address the following issues: penalties are substantially increased and are awarded to well
specified individuals; points of taxation are substantially lowered; multiple taxation is reduced; the system
is simplified so that costs of compliance are minimized; other partners are involved in either monitoring or
collection. The pilot will be implemented in 2 stages. First, fixed transport licenses will be designed and
implemented in the "catchment" area. If the system is successful, a second expansion stage would be
implemented.
Based on an evaluation of the pilot systems introduced in Mwanza and Dar es Salaam, FBD would hold a
wide-ranging workshop to establish the parameters or framework of the new system, and then would
introduce the new system.
Centralizing revenue collection and accounting
In terms of revenue collection, the advantages of working within the structure of the Tanzania Forest
Service will be that revenue collectors can be better remunerated; revenue collectors (and supervisors) will
be more directly answerable to the TFS; and a system of performance targets, increased incentives and
improved contracting can be introduced.
Centralizing revenue collection and separating it from other service delivery functions of the TFS will have
profound cost implications. These are difficult to predict since they are contingent upon the ultimate
revenue system design, itself an unknown and an output of the project's other activities. With these caveats
in mind, following the informational stages of the pilot, a consultant will develop contracts, incentives and
performance targets for revenue collectors during the pilot period. Cost implications, in terms of hiring
(salaries) and equipment is made and a budget is prepared to move to a centralized mode of hiring for
revenue collection. During the planning stage, projected budget and revenue targets will be prepared based
on the pilot exercise. The project will provide for the purchase of required vehicles and equipment to
handle the new revenue collection regime.
In addition, the project will seek to develop mechanisms for returning revenues collected to comrnunities.
This will be developed in conjunction with the PFM component of the project, which will monitor the
expansion of Village Forest Reserves.
- 42 -



Governance, information and social marketing
This activity will focus on providing improved information about the objectives and approaches toward
improving revenue collection, to build wider support for forest conservation and management through these
types of pricing interventions. Public awareness of the impacts of the revenue collection system will be
quite important. In order to improve public awareness, the project will finance various public information
activities geared towards developing wider-spread acceptance of the improved revenue collection system.
The project will finance a media service company to prepare informational material focused on the extent
of the illegal forestry sector in Tanzania, and the costs the sector is imposing on the economy. The activity
should also focus on building support for interventions through key entry points into the industry, for
example, through the army.
Improving Service-delivery mechanisms for participatoryforest and woodland management (US$8.4
million)
It has become clear since the adoption of forest policy reforms in Tanzania in 1998, which lay the
framework for a new approach to forest conservation and management, that the institutional framework for
service delivery with respect to participatory forest management is extremely weak. While the new forest
policy is innovative and will have far reaching impacts, there is limited capacity at the central, district and
local levels to deliver on its objectives in this respect. One of the objectives of the project, then, is to
support an institutional reform process which builds the capacity for service delivery to extend
participatory forest management dramatically and to recover lost ground in activities which have lacked
adequate facilitation and support. Activities supported by FCMP will be launched within the prevailing
institutional framework. Service delivery responsibilities will become a key feature of the new institutional
framework which is to be introduced. FCMP will explore options for commencing financial support to
districts and villages through government channels, in the spirit of the Local Government Reform Program.
The overall objective of this sub-component of the institutional reform activity is to provide the framework
to bring as much unreserved forest and woodland as possible into the reserved category under clear local
owner-management and to assist adjacent communities in participating directly in the management of
National and Local Authority Forest Reserves. This is designed greatly to enhance both conservation and
local level empowerment and livelihood support.
A core Participatory Forestry Management Support Unit (PFMSU) will be established within FBD, in the
first instance, to form the institutional foundation and center of responsibility for ensuring that services are
delivered. The unit will be headed by a Coordinator, assisted by a Lead Facilitator and a Resources and
Monitoring Specialist. This small team will be supported by an adviser, recruited by FBD. In due course,
should a service-oriented Executive Agency be formned, then the PFMSU would ideally move into that
framework, in order to gain from institutional and administrative efficiencies and the flexibility which such
agencies can provide. In line with LGRP, the primary role of the PFMSU will be to promote and facilitate
the adoption of PFM by regions, districts and forest-adjacent communities. Due to the magnitude of the
task ahead (i.e. a large scale promotion of PFM), the PFMSU will only to a limited extent deliver services
directly to local communities.
The main strategy for achieving the sub-component objective will be the 'facilitation' (implying the
provision of a host of services ranging from advice, guidance and technical assistance to training, extension
and general capacity building, etc.) of PFM, both towards the local governments and towards the forest
adjacent communities deciding to enter into JFM arrangements or to set up and manage VFR's. Facilitation
- 43 -



of PFM will be done by the PFMSU, assisted by different 'assistant facilitators' at the national, regional,
district and local levels, and in collaboration with and via the regional and, in particular., the district
authorities. It follows that there will be different categories and levels of 'facilitation' services adapted to
different sets of circumstances and levels.
Five sets of activities are envisaged:
Mobilization and support
The core of the program will provide support for existing PFM initiatives, and will develop the capacity for
rapid extension into new initiatives. The project will initially work with a limited number of PFM initiatives
in selected districts. The initiatives and districts will be selected based on the probability for creating early
successes, which can be expected to boost the expansion of the program and the adoption of PFM practices
by other communities and districts. A first activity will be to carry out an assessment to determine where to
focus service interventions. The service interventions to be offered will focus on 'facilitation' of PFM
through a range of support activities aiming at building up local capacity to facilitate introduction and
implementation of PFM in various types of forest reserves, in line with FBD's recently published
'Guidelines for Participatory Forest Management. Facilitation services will work from a common menu of
approaches based on an understanding of the evolving legal framework, and tailored closely to fit local
conditions and concems.
The PFMSU will use its own facilitator and a number of assistant facilitators (individuals, institutions,
NGO's, CBO's, etc.) on short-task centered assignments, to work with district staff in helping them
restructure or deliver PFM facilitation in the selected villages. Over time, the more successful of these
district level staff (DFOs and DCFOs) and the assistant facilitators deployed by the program will add to the
growing cadre of expert practitioners in Tanzania, in tum able to provide facilitation support to less
experienced foresters.
As experience accumulates and capacity increases the program will gradually be expanded into other
districts. Priorities for the expansion will be set according to criteria such as demand by communities and
district authorities for PFM, district capacity (particularly regarding the DFO's office), motivation,
districts targeted for local government reform, the urgency of forest loss and degradation, and the existence
of appropriate bodies to assist in PFM facilitation (e.g. NGO's, CBO's, companies, institutions,
individuals, etc.). Efforts will aim to help villagers put Village Forest Reserves in place or to introduce
village-based approaches into the management of National and Local Authority Forest Reserves, including
those earmarked for catchment protection.
Facilitation will include assistance to communities in formulating formal by-laws based on informal
community rules or through other mechanisms. As a national unit, PFMSU will have a special role in
ensuring clear procedures for registration and for training of district council staff to facilitate this. In other
instances, communities will need to be assisted in restructuring their management arrangements, developing
forest use protocols, and in zoning and boundary marking methods, as well as in strengthening systems for
accounting for income from fines and fees and so on. There will be cases where the PFMSU will assist
villages directly but in general the assistance will be channelled through locally based 'assistant
facilitators'.
By the end of the second year of implementation it is expected that foresters in around 25 districts will have
their capacity to undertake PFM facilitation improved, through assisted 'learning-by-doing' and that their
supporting District Councils will also have been successfully assisted better to plan and route at least some
- 44 -



level of continuing support to PFM. Also by the end of the second year a number of JMA's (20 - 30) will
have been developed in selected Local Area Forest Reserves and National Forest Reserves. With the
enactment of the new Forest Bill it is possible that this number could increase more rapidly than currently
foreseen. As far as Village, Community or Private Forests within village lands are concerned a significant
number of forest-adjacent villages and/or communities will have been assisted to initiate, consolidate, refine
or expand efforts towards creating forest reserves and towards bringing their forests under management.
At the end of the program, capacity will have been built at various levels as a result of PFM facilitation. At
the regional and district levels a general capacity (primarily within the DFOs office but also extending to
other departments) to actively support forest adjacent communities in the process of establishing and
managing VFRs will have been created. The focal point for facilitation of PFM in general will have been
shifted from the national to the regional, district and local levels, involving different types of 'facilitators',
such as local government officials, NGOs, CBOs, companies, institutions, organizations and individuals.
Furthermore, villages and community groups should be actively soliciting the assistance of these local
'facilitators'.
At the village level, PFM is being practiced in different types of Forest Reserves in accordance with the
spirit of the PFM guidelines by FBD. PFM bodies have been established within the village govemment
system and forest managers (whether individuals or community groups) are networking with each other,
exchanging experiences, knowledge and ideas. There is a basic understanding within communities engaged
in PFM of the principles, requirements and potential benefits to be derived from the system, and there is
general acceptance among the different groupings in the local community of the objectives of and approach
to the management of the reserved forests.
The sub-component's other four sets of activities will be geared primarily toward providing support
services for facilitation, for networking and information sharing, and for monitoring.
Legal. technical and environmental guidance
This activity will backstop facilitators and new village forest managers with the right legal, technical, and
environmental guidance with respect to village-based forest and woodland management. In particular,
strategies for dealing with particular environmental and social concerns associated with PFM -- for
example, in catchment forest areas, areas of high biodiversity, or in areas where settlement may pose
special problems -- will be developed. The objective will be to find ways of balancing national (and global)
needs for environmental services with local needs for forest products.
Legal aspects are being addressed at the overall level through the NFP where a major aim is the
harmonization of rules, procedures and regulations to facilitate the achievement of the program objectives
for the sector. Legal matters in connection with the introduction and implementation of PFM will therefore
have to be seen in the overall context of the NFP. There will, however, be a need for legal guidance and
support to PFM specific issues encountered on the ground, in connection with actual forest management by
communities.
Legal guidance will therefore include not only practical guidelines (pamphlets, radio programs etc.) but
also legal support on the ground. Such direct legal support may take the form of e.g. contracting of legal
assistance and mediation aimed at ensuring villagers' rights to establish and manage various types of Forest
Reserves. Cross-sectoral collaboration and training of key district officers from other departments (land
use; planning etc) will be required to ensure that land rights of villagers are ensured. Particular attention
will have to be made to potential and actual conflicts over forest resources e.g. between settled farmers and
- 45 -



pastoralists and to gender specific forest management issues.An important function of the PFMSU will be
to offer clear and reliable guidance about how people may act to secure and manage forests of interest to
them in fully sustainable ways In addition, PFMSU will have an important function to play in ensuring that
all those involved in facilitating this development are quite clear as to the technical options and legal
parameters available, and are fully able to access information about the best ways to launch and sustain the
process. They also need to know the kind of issues that will likely need to be addressed by both themselves
as facilitators and by new village level forest managers.
Through the project, Guidelines will be produced which can be readily used by all PFM actors. They will
designed to be action-oriented, short, sharp, clear and in Kiswahili (as well as English). From time to time
it will be productive to prepare guidelines which target a particular audience, for example, for facilitators
or for those designed to assist new local level forest managers. Presentation will vary accordingly.
PFM is an entirely voluntary. Although proposed forest legislation makes it clear that government is
obliged to provide good advice to assist in implementing the approach, people are under no obligation to
accept this advice. There are, of course, exceptions. The current Forest Ordinance and proposed forest
legislation set out parameters providing for forest access and use. Proposed legislation describes the
procedures for how a community may declare and manage a Village Land Forest Reserve or Community
Forest. Should a community wish to do this, it will need to follow the procedures for declaration and
regulation set out in legislation. Local participation in management of Government Forests is by joint
agreement, which is also provided for in proposed legislation.
The production of training material will be the responsibility of the Resources and Monitoring Specialist
working directly with the Facilitator. Guidelines will be derived directly from field experience and through
consultative processes, shaped as necessary by silvicultural, biodiversity, marketing, financial management,
legal or other parameters as are appropriate. Particularly where there is a range of opinions as to best ways
forward, or where practitioners have found solutions difficult, the content of guidelines will be defined
through broad consultative processes with local actors.
Where special technical or legal issues arise, the PFMSU will seek to develop the most appropriate
information for dissemination. Guidelines on planting trees on farm, stimulated by natural forest
protection, is a likely demand. Management practices to stimulate production of preferred species in
production forests may also be developed into Guidelines. Checklists and steps towards identifying, zoning
and protecting areas of high biodiversity value within forests, may be developed. From time to time the
PFMSU will produce and disseminate pamphlets that are produced jointly with other sector interests or
departments. This particularly includes drawing up guidelines on beekeeping and the management of
wildlife in forested areas.
Local government capacity building
This activity will be focused on working with the local government reform process to build capacity both to
manage a wider program of PFM through local government, to develop ways of mediating national and
local concerns over the use of woodland and forest resources, and to strengthen local govermment capacity
for facilitating local environmental management initiatives. The immediate objectives of this activity are to
raise local awareness of PFM policies and opportunities; to provide a positive support environment in the
local government sector; and to build the capacity of District Forestry Officers and other relevant District
Officers to facilitate and support villagers to become forest managers.
-46 -



The project will prepare clear and simple public information about PFM approaches and the opportunities
available for villages to be involved in the protection and management and regulation of forests in their
areas. Different arrangements available to them in respect of both reserved areas (such as National and
Local Authority Forest Reserves) and in respect of unreserved forests within village areas will be set out.
Supporting national policy and legal provisions will be indicated. Information will be presented in short
pamphlets in English and Kiswahili which will be distributed to information officers, local authorities and
other agencies. Press and radio services will be encouraged to produce articles and programs on current
developments.
Rural local governments (district councils) in particular are regarded as the main platform from which
PFM will be launched and sustained. District Forestry Officers are regarded as the key actors and
facilitators which require the support of their Executive Directors, Planning Officers and Council bodies.
The project will provide resources for a series of workshops to which District Executive Directors, Council
Chairnen, Planning Officers and other key players will be invited. Representatives from the Ministry of
Local Government, the Local Government Service Commission and Local Government Reform Program
will be closely involved. The objective will be to inform them fully of forest policy and national forest
management plans with respect to PFM; provide case studies and general guidelines including presentations
by one or two districts already practicing PFM; assist them in identifying in broad terms the priority areas
for action in their respective districts; work through with them the level of personnel and support
implications; and to identify and prioritize critical constraints to action and discuss how these may be
overcome.
Service agreements will be made between the FBD/TFS and respective districts specifying 1) obligations
and targets of the district in terms of forest and forest biodiversity management and 2) needs and
requirements for facilitation and support including proposed contracts for tendering and provision of
services by the TFS. The service agreements will be based partly on district annual work plans and, at a
later stage, on District Forest Plans (in accordance with the NFP).
Personnel and resource constraints are likely to be the most common and severe constraint identified. Over
the project period and with the assistance of the Director/Chief Executive Officer and Permanent Secretary,
the project will work with the Local Government Reform Program, and with the Local Government and
Civil Service Commissions to find ways by which councils may be better staffed in these areas. As the
LGRP is consolidated and expanded Districts are also expected to have their access to other resources
(apart from staff) improved. The PFMSU will work actively with the CSD to identify ways in which the
project can support ongoing efforts to strengthen local government capacities in support of PFM.
Coordination and exchange
One of the strengths of recent efforts to support PFM has come from efforts to exchange information and
ideas amongst practitioners, as well as amongst villagers. The process of establishing community-based or
partnership forest management is a highly dynamic development process involving changed institutional
and government-people relationships. An annual meeting will be convened to bring together PFM
facilitators and practitioners to compare notes, learn from each other, and to gain a sense of support and
shared commitment. This will also allow progress to be monitored and consensus reached as to priorities
for PFMSU and other agencies. The project will also provide resources to enable facilitators to visit a
range of sites where PFM is underway.
-47 -



At the village level, as well, much has been gained already by exchanges facilitated between villages. Many
new Village Forest Managers have suggested that they should be assisted to form a Village Forest
Managers Association both as a mechanism of disseminating and receiving information from each other
and as a forum through which their interests may be promoted. There has also been great interest in being
able to meet together periodically. The project will provide resources for four activities in this regard: First,
there will be an effort to make it possible for village forest managers to meet together regularly to share
experiences, learn from each other and to prioritize problem areas and support needs. This also offers an
important opportunity for technical advisers and monitoring staff to collect first-hand information on
progress, problems, needs and impacts. Second, the project will assist in establishing a Village Forest
Management Newsletter. Needs for local newsletters should be considered. Third, the project will provide
resources to enable groups of village level forest managers to visit selected PFM developments as an on-site
learning activity. This would likely be undertaken in conjunction with facilitator cross visits. Fourth, the
project will explore how village forest managers may be assisted to form themselves into a formal interest
group association.
Finally, at the national level, the PFMSU will develop the capacity to function as a clearing house and
contact point for PFM activities throughout the country, providing a forum through which knowledge and
skills may be productively shared and utilized. Linkages with other activities will evolve initially through
cooperation in the provision of facilitation support from the first year of the project, and through other
supporting activities, such as those linked to local Government capacity development to support PFM
development. Secondly, projects will be directly represented in the annual practitioners conference. More
task-specific forums will be developed as necessary, often led by one or other project (such as RIPS,
MEMA, LAMP, NRBZ, UTUMI, EUCAMP, CFP, HASHI and HADO.)
Further links will be established with the wildlife, beekeeping, environmental and other sectors of
Government and NGOs in the sector. In light of the commencement of the new land laws of Tanzania,
PFMSU will establish close links with the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development to assist it
to develop with pilot villages, clear guidelines for tenure related aspects which directly support creation of
Village, Community and Private Forests.
Monitoring and feedback
In light of the extensive investments which are envisaged in PFM, a strong monitoring capacity needs to be
more clearly established better to inform policy and program development at national, district and village
levels. There will be a need for PFMSU to have up to date information on specific developments and
progress in general, and in a fully accessible form. Such information will be useful to other agencies,
including villages, but will be essential for forward planning and for devising fully appropriate guidelines
and support systems. To achieve this, the project will assist PFMSU to put in place a simple system for
collecting and compiling sharply focused information about PFM developments throughout the country to
identify where central responses or actions are needed. At the same time, neither time nor resources should
be wasted on detailed studies and reports which have no links with action needs. A critical first task of the
Resources and Monitoring Specialist will be to establish a set of minimum information points and
indicators which may be developed for use by all local PFM actors. A time-efficient means of receiving this
information will be to request participants to the annual working conference to complete and bring with
them these simple forms.
At the macro level, Tanzania's extensive forest and woodland resources clearly play a central role in
providing resources for rural and urban household consumption, and for mitigating the impacts of poverty.
PFM seeks more fully to integrate local forest and woodland management efforts with local needs and
-48 -



concerns. The development of a better understanding of the linkages between poverty and natural resource
management was highlighted in the PRSP as a central issue of concern. Although these linkages are widely
speculated upon, the development of analytically sound and empirically rigorous household-based
information is badly needed. The project will provide resources to support a five-year program of applied
household monitoring and assessment better to inform policy about these linkages.
With respect to the specific impacts of PFM, a critical aspect of forest management planning and
implementation is to be able to know if the regime itself is working as planned and the effect it is having
upon the local forest and upon local development systems, organization and local livelihood. The Resources
and Monitoring Specialist will work closely with other members of the PFMSU team to refine simple
monitoring indicators and processes which villagers can easily adopt and use on a sustained and regular
basis.
Monitoring activities will also be used to inform FBD/TFS management about how best a scheme can be
designed to ensure that revenues collected by FBD are returned to villages which have undertaken new
woodland management responsibilities.
Useful project key performance indicators will have to be developed, including both indirect and direct
indicators. Indirect monitoring indicators are in fact already routinely identified in the preparation of village
forest management plans but on the whole there is little systematic assessment of these. Therefore, such
indicators such be collected and assessed in a systematic manner better to inform the PFM process.
Direct key performance indicators will have to be established during the inception of the PFM component.
Such indicators must relate directly to the level, type and magnitude of capacity for PFM facilitation (in a
broad sense) that have been built at the local, district, regional and national levels. Performance indicator
targets will be, inter alia, the number of 'facilitators' (local government officers, NGOs, CBOs,
companies, institutions, individuals) capable of facilitating PFM and actively engaged in PFM processes
with villages and local communities; the degree to which the FBD guidelines on PFM are being adhered to
and the degree to which field experience is being fed-back into the FBD/TFS; the number of VFRs being
established or requests being submitted to the district authorities for endorsement; and the number of JMAs
being entered into.
Project Component 2 - US$3.40 million
Private sector involvement in industrial plantation management
The project will provide resources to develop and implement a framework for the involvement of the private
sector in the management of existing industrial plantations as well as to strengthen the potential for the
development and management of new plantations. This component will provide the resources to assess the
technical and financial feasibility of the industrial plantations with reference to existing and potential
markets as well as the formulation of steps and guidelines for the private sector's involvement. Multiple
mechanisms for the involvement of the private sector will be developed and implemented on a pilot basis,
and are expected to include leasing arrangements, joint forest management, and co-management. Four
sub-components are envisaged:
- 49 -



Improving the plantation resource information base and management planning capacity (US$0.3
million)
This sub-component will provide resources to develop the information needed to allow for the identification
and selection of priority sites and for designing pilot activities. The sub-component will finance aerial
photography, interpretation, mapping, and indicative inventories of around 40,000 ha of state-owned
plantations; a rapid socio-economic assessment which identifies key stakeholders, their concerns, and
expectations; the development of a plantation database for management purposes; preparation of basic
guidelines to guide plantation management and to establish parameters for monitoring commercial
plantation operations; preparation of basic growth and yield tables for key species relying on existing data;
preliminary estimates of growing stock and allowable cut; and capacity building of staff in selected areas to
build capacity to undertake these tasks. An exhaustive mapping and inventory exercise is not envisaged.
Strengthening institutional support services for private sector involvement (US$1.3 million)
This sub-component will support the creation of an enabling institutional and market environment for
private sector involvement in plantation development and management. It will provide resources for the
design and implementation of a communication strategy; the development of a plan of action with agree
principles and clear objectives for private sector involvement; the establishment of a PSI unit within
MNRT; the development of legal procedures and instruments for tendering to ensure transparency and
consistency with Government guidelines; the preparation of model information memoranda, leases, model
contracts, and transparent bidding assessment procedures, as well as community and environmental action
plans where they are needed; prepare recommendations on an improved log sales system; an action plant
for improving forestry taxation and the investment environment for plantation forestry; and study tours and
staff training to increase an understanding of the principles surrounding private sector involvement.
Pilot alternative management of selected industrial plantations (US$1.6 million)
Three pilot activities are envisaged under this component: the development of leasing arrangements for
involving the private sector in plantation management; the development of co-management arrangements
where responsibility for plantation management is shared between Government and a partner (for example,
a village or a company); and designated community management for a plantation area where
responsibilities and control are assumed by a village. The project will provide resources to establish
boundaries of each pilot area, to carry out rapid inventories or aerial surveys as needed, to prepare legal
documentation as needed, and to carry out stakeholder surveys and assessments where communities will be
involved or otherwise affected by the program.
Pilot private company involvement in plantation management
Government has indicated that its preferred approach toward involving the private sector in plantation
management, is to develop the option of leasing pilot plantation areas with either an upfront or part
payment for the current crop. For these forests, an open bidding process is recommended, whereby the
private sector would be invited to bid (following the preparation of bidding criteria and bid evaluation
documentation), offering either their total offer price at the outset or an initial payment with a series of
deferred payments for the balance of the offer price. The Govemment would in documentation for inviting
bids, need to indicate its preferences and how it will evaluate and rank bids. Assuming a successful bidding
and negotiation process, management of these plantations will be progressively assumed by the private
sector on a pilot basis.
- 50 -



The pilot will develop a gradual process of transferring management of selected state plantations to private
company management using leasing mechanisms appropriate in the Tanzanian conditions. It will commence
with a single pilot plantation (most probably Sao Hill) and then drawing from lessons learned during the
pilot phase, move onto further plantations (possibly Mtibwa, Longuza and Meru/Usa) if this is judged to be
appropriate. The purpose is to improve the productivity of plantation management, increase sustainable
wood supply, and reduce the financial burden on government.
The project will provide resources to demarcate and map plantation boundaries; to identify and map areas
to be excluded such as critical watersheds; to carry out a more detailed valuation of the pilot area to set a
benchmark for tendering; to prepare for bidding/tendering, including consultations, investment information
memorandums, and lease/ contract legal documents. Special attention will be given in the tendering process
to accommodate the needs of small saw-millers, for example, by parcelling a portion(s) into small enough
tendering packages for a range of small millers to bid, or by requiring bidders to otherwise be responsive to
the needs of small processors. The project will provide resources to undertake bidding, bid evaluation,
contract negotiations and transfer to the private sector.
Pilot co-management of industrial plantation
Co-management refers to a partnership between the state, the private sector, and organized villagers for the
management of a designated plantation to supply wood to the market and sustain the flow of benefits fairly
shared by the management partners. The term "partnership" means that each partner has decisions to make
and execute, which should be defined in a Joint Management Agreement. A Joint Management Committee
will be established to provide this forum. The Agreement will explicitly address the issue of benefit and
cost sharing amongst the management partners, through a transparent and consultative decision making and
planning process.
Pilot co-management of an industrial plantation should be considered as an option in areas, where there is
good commercial plantation potential, population pressure on land is high, communities are already using
the forest, and where inputs from conmmunities can actually help in reducing plantation management costs
and protecting the plantation from fire and encroachment. Plantations such as North Kilimanjaro,
Shume/Magamba, West Kilimanjaro, Kawetire and Buhindi are some of the candidates for piloting a
co-management approach to commercial plantation management. Shume/Magamba already has a pilot
underway, from which lessons may be learnt.
The project will provide resources to conduct consultations with all stakeholders to agree on issues and
cooperation principles; to undertake participatory planning of the co-management concept, including
allocation of management and control rights, local conflict resolution management systems as well as
benefit and cost sharing arrangements; participatory preparation of an action plan to proceed with
co-management and village organizing and capacity strengthening as needed. The project will provide
assistance to demarcate and map plantation and village and sub-village boundaries and to divide the pilot
plantation area into management areas by village or sub-village.
A detailed forest resource inventory will be undertaken to provide the basis for a detailed valuation of the
plantation to set benchmarks for auctioning or tendering or other negotiations with a private sector partner.
The project will provide assistance in preparing legal documents (possibly including bidding/tendering,
investment information memorandums, pro forma contracts, outlining conditions of co-management), and
will support the development of contract mechanisms for transfer to a co-management structure. In
addition, the project will provide assistance in the development of forest management systems and related
- 51 -



training/operational manuals, building as much as possible on already existing material, and will provide
training for trainers, staff and villagers in organizational, technical, financial and market aspects of
co-management.
Pilot designated communitv plantation management
This activity will develop and implement community-based plantation management systems for a pilot
plantation which cannot be managed commercially either by private companies or by the state but which
has potential to provide benefits to local communities. Joint forest management has already been piloted in
parts of Ruvu (since 1998/99), Rubare, Ukaguru, Rondo, Kiwira, and Matogoro. FBD has recently decided
to turn Matogoro into a catchment forest so it cannot be used for production purposes in the future.
Designated management refers to recognition and empowerment of organized villagers as managers of a
plantation or part of a plantation in order to sustain the flow of mainly industrial wood but also fuelwood,
as well as other forest products and services mainly to the benefit of the villagers but also the rest of the
country, based on a long-term lease arrangement. Under this concept, villages or sub-villages would be
managing the plantation reserve on a pilot basis on behalf of Govenmment in accordance with a regulatory
framework and a contract. Rights and responsibilities will be defined in a Joint Management Agreement,
which will be negotiated and entered into by the two parties to the agreement. The roles, functions and
responsibilities of each partner should be clearly defined in the Agreement, including what the designated
manager can independently decide and execute, what needs approval by the state, and how the benefits and
costs should be distributed. The need for mutual consultation and transparency should also be specified
together with monitoring and control as part of the Agreement.
The adoption of a designated management model also implies certain responsibilities and changes in the
roles of the various stakeholders. Villagers are not to just use the forests but they are to manage it
sustainably, with guidance from a district forest officer. Some of the most important roles and
responsibilities are: to protect the forest, to prepare a simple plan to manage the forest, manage the forest
according a management plan or Village Assembly approved by-laws, enhance the value of forest through
stand improvement and reforestation, fell and sell trees, collect non-timber forest products, and pay all the
necessary fees (e.g. an annual lease fee). The forestry officers will have to become more service-oriented
and focus onfacilitation. Their main functions would be to provide a supporting policy and regulatory
framework and extension services to villagers; to facilitate and guide villagers in their forestry development
activities; to assist in forest management planning; to approve the plans; to monitor village forestry and be
responsible for overall regulation.
The project is expected to provide resources to conduct consultations with all stakeholders to agree on key
issues; facilitate participatory preparation of an action plan and negotiation of a management contract
based e.g. on long-term lease; strengthen village organizational capacity e.g. through Village Management
Committees based on existing village institutions (continuous activity or process); undertake participatory
demarcation and mapping of the plantation and village and sub-village boundaries; undertake participatory
forest resource assessment, including wood, environmental and other resource services; introduce simple
forest management practices building as much as possible on already existing knowledge and accumulated
experience; train trainers, and villagers in organizational, technical, financial and market aspects of
plantation management and setting up a simple audit system; assist in the development of by-laws; assist
villagers in the preparation of simple forest management plan(s) and annual operation plans (by village or
sub-village); support management plan implementation by village or sub-village; develop participatory
monitoring, evaluation and auditing; and prepare an action plan for expanding the (refined) co-management
model to other selected plantations.
- 52 -



For forests where partial or full community involvement through co-management or full participatory forest
management arrangements, the choice of mechanism will follow the social assessment and social action
planning process planned for each forest.
Monitoring and evaluation (US$0.2 million)
The project will place a strong emphasis on the monitoring and evaluation of performance under the pilot
operations. The project will provide resources to establish a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation; to
determiine performance indicators for the pilot operations; to implement a regular monitoring process which
reports against quantitative and qualitative performance indicators; and to provide feedback to MNRT to
modify mechanisms and procedures on the basis of results from the pilot operations. The monitoring and
evaluation system will focus specifically on determining identifiable performance indicators for each pilot
operation; implement a regular and periodic monitoring process to report against quantitative and
qualitative performance indicators which consider both the effectiveness of private sector management as
well as the extent to which lease conditions are being met, and will provide feedback information to
management to improve or otherwise modify the pilot approach.
Project Component 3 - US$ 9.30 million
Eastern Arc forests conservation and management
This third component of the program, which is largely to be financed by GEF (as well as with IDA and
bilateral sources) has been jointly developed and implemented by the World Bank and UNDP working with
Government and other partners with interests in the forestry sector. This component will support
institutional reform, strategy development, pilot community-based conservation, and the establishment and
operation of a sustainable financing mechanism for tropical high forest conservation in Tanzania through
the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF).
The main global environmental objective of this GEF activity is to promote the sustainable conservation
and management of the Eastern Arc forests. The GEF activity is expected to have four sub-components,
the first two of which will be implemented by the World Bank:
(i)    Institutional reforms for forest biodiversity conservation, in particular of the Eastern Arc
forests at central, district and local partnership levels to incorporate specific responsibilities for
biodiversity conservation, oversight, monitoring and coordination. Such reforms will be linked
with other reforms and institutional restructuring proposed for the forestry sector as a whole, which
are to be financed by IDA. The GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be the
Bank (GEF financing of US$ 275,000);
(ii)   Mechanisms for sustainable financing of biodiversity conservation, will be developed including
the establishment of an Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund. It is envisaged
that an endowment trust fund will be established by the project, with GEF resources. The GEF
implementing agency for this sub-component would be the Bank (GEF financing of US$6.75
million) which will co-finance the establishment and initial operations of the EAMCEF (IDA
financing of US$2 million).
Two additional components are to be implemented by the UNDP and are complementary to the
Bank-implemented activities:
- 53 -



(iii)  Development and preparation of an integrated Conservation Strategy for the Eastern Arc
Mountain Forests using a broad-based participatory process, with a focus on institutional
capacity building, and which considers links to other sectoral activities, such as agriculture, water,
land, and energy. A wider dialogue on the impacts of sectoral activities on forest biodiversity
conservation in the Eastem Arc will be developed amongst the key institutions involved in sectoral
activities. Mapping and baseline activities will be undertaken as part of the Strategy development,
and will include an assessment of the multiple tenure regimes found in the forests of the Arc. The
GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.
(iv)   A forest conservation intervention through government and community partnership
initiatives which will be undertaken at priority sites in the Uluguru Mountains - one of the most
important mountain forest blocks in the arc. Firm linkages will be established with partners (other
donors, NGOs, Community-based organizations, government agencies, etc.) The GEF
implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.
A Project Brief for the full GEF activity is in preparation and is expected to be submitted to the GEF
Council for approval during the December 2001 Council meeting. GEF-financed activities are to be
Appraised following Council approval. While GEF support is expected to be integrated into the overall
program of IDA support to the forest sector in Tanzania, explicit IDA co-financing is envisaged for the
EAMCEF. This sub-component is described here in detail:
Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (US$9.0 million)
The establishment of the Eastem Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF) is intended to
begin to address the need for a long-termn sustainable approach to funding the conservation of forest
biodiversity. Endowment Funds have typically been established when public resources for biodiversity
conservation are constrained, when other support has been inconsistent or irregular, and when there is a
strong enabling framework for their establishment.
Inadequate and poorly targeted public and donor resources for forest biodiversity conservation in the
Eastern Arc has meant that there is a limited view of long-term resource requirements and financing needs.
Most efforts to develop sound forest biodiversity conservation programs in the Eastern Arc have suffered
from the 'feast-or-famine' five-year project cycle: a period of raised expectations and increased resource
flows followed by the departure of staff, and constrained finances. Even the best designed initiatives have
failed, ultimately, to create the mechanisms for longer-term financing. Indeed, if there is any single 'lesson
leamed' from donor financing, it has been that their impacts are much more likely to be short term, rather
than long term.
The financial sustainability of donor assisted forest biodiversity conservation projects has been a
longstanding concern. Government ultimately pays the price when financial sustainability is not assured.
The EAMCEF provides an important opportunity to build on synergies in donor support.
Endowment Funds rely on several sources of financing: resources for establishment and initial operations;
programmatic resources; and the capital endowment. GEF Guidelines require that the institution
responsible for the Endowment Fund should be privately constituted, and that the capital endowment is
managed off-shore to meet certain investment standards. The revenues from the capital endowment are used
on a perpetual basis to finance programmatic and operational expenses. It is expected that GEF will finance
the capital endowment ($6.5 million) once particular performance benchmarks have been achieved. IDA
resources (US$2 million) are required to finance establishment, initial operations, and programmatic
expenses. Additional bilateral and multilateral resources are in the process of being mobilized.
- 54 -



Preparatory work A feasibility study was prepared and concluded that the policy and institutional
framework would support the establishment of an Endowment Fund in Tanzania, and could be justified on
the basis of the biodiversity values found in the Eastern Arc. The feasibility study recommended that an
Endowment Fund working group should be established, that a profile of the fund should be prepared, and
future work should focus on further development of the design of the fund and should support a study tour
to another endowment fund site.
Because of the proposed nature of the Endowment Fund as a privately-managed institution, the Bank
sought Government's agreement to support its establishment on these terms. MNRT has strongly endorsed
its establishment, has agreed that its initial operations should be co-financed with IDA resources, and has
argued that it is consistent with the national policy objective of seeking to involve a wider group of
stakeholders in forest conservation and management through a diverse range of approaches and
instruments, outside of the influence of the public sector.
An Endowment Fund specialist was subsequently employed by FBD and resulted in the formal
establishment of the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF). A deed of trust
under the Trustees' Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) has been prepared and registered with the
Administrator General of Trustees. As such, the Eastem Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
has now been legally constituted as a Non-Govemmental Organization. An Inaugural Board has been
established and is comprised of representatives of the public sector, the private sector, and environmental
NGOs.
The Deed of Trust requires that the Board of Trustees is to be constituted in a manner so that there is
expertise in conservation in the Eastern Arc Mountains, forestry, academia/research, law, business and
financial matters, community development, and the work of local and intemational conservation NGOs.
The Founding Board has been constituted of representatives from the Forestry and Beekeeping Division of
the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the National Environment Management Council (NEMC),
the Lawyers Environmental Action Trust (an environmental NGO), WWF Tanzania, and Songas (a private
company with interests in off-shore gas field development). Four additional members of the Board are to be
appointed according to terms specified in the Deed of Trust.
The Deed requires the appointment of four additional Trustees who shall represent a reputable NGO which
has the objective of supporting community-based conservation and natural resource management, a
representative from the academic/research community from a national institution, and two members
representing comnmunities in the areas of operation of the Endowment.
The Deed also provides for the establishment of Local Advisory Committees (LACs) in the areas of
EAMCEF operation, and that these will be constituted of representatives from Village Environmental
Committees. LACs will be constituted to provide guidance and advice to the Board. Collectively, these
various mechanisms provide for representation of diverse interests in the conservation and management of
the Eastern Arc.
Thematic and geographic coverage. The preparatory work which underpinned the establishment of the
EAMCEF focused developing the mechanisms for fnancing three key priorities: community-based
conservation; applied biodiversity research; and protected areas management. The design of the fund has
been responsive to these three priority areas.
- 55 -



Because of the great extent of the Eastern Arc and the concern that the EAMCEF should be seen to have a
sustained impact in the short term, the Fund is expected to operate, in the first instance, across a limited
geographic range, primarily in two or three Mountain blocks of the Eastern Arc forests. These were
established as an outcome of the ranking exercise which was undertaken during preparation. In the first
instance, support is to be provided for activities in the Uluguru Mountains, the Udzungwa Mountains, and
in the East Usambara Mountains. In the medium-term, once a track record has been established for
operation of the EAMCEF in priority sites, programs are expected to be extended into other mountain
blocks, such as the Malundwes, Mahenges, Rubehos, and Ukagurus, but this will depend on additional
(probably substantial) capitalization of the fund, and its success in delivering expected outputs.
Phased Support. Support for establishment and operation of the Fund will be phased. Phase I, which is
expected to last three years, will build the capacity within the EAMCEF and its partners to carry out their
respective roles in the management of the Endowment Fund and the coordination and implementation of the
activities described above. A modest unallocated fund for technical programs will allow EAMCEF to
address early needs and to gain experience in program planning and implementation. At the end of year 3,
an assessment of the achievement of the agreed indicators of institutional capacity and readiness will serve
to trigger the release of the endowment capital from GEF into the Fund. During year 4, the endowment will
earn interest and these funds will finance Phase II, the implementation phase, which will begin at the start
of year 5. Assistance from the GEF is requested to provide the initial endowment capital of US $6.5 million
for the EAMCEF, as well as US$0.25 million for the three-year start-up phase. Assistance from IDA is
required for the three year start-up phase and for operational and programmatic support.
GEF support is needed to support 5 major activities (including capitalization of the Endowment Fund
itself). IDA support will be provided to finance the first 4 of these activities (but will not be used to
capitalize the Endowment Fund).
(a)    Endowment Administration. The Endowment Fund Secretariat will be established in Morogoro
and will consist of an Executive Director, three Program Officers, an Accountant, a Secretary, and
support staff. These individuals will be the only full-time employees of EAMCEF. The Secretariat
will be responsible for (i) developing the program content for each of the three priority areas of
support (Community-based conservation, applied biodiversity research, and protected areas
management); (ii) working in collaboration with FBD and suitable NGOs to implement activities in
these three priority areas; (iii) submitting annual work plans and budgets to the EAMCEF Board
for approval; (iv) disbursing approved funds and ensuring that proper disbursement, procurement
and supervision procedures are followed; (v) maintaining financial records and
accounting/reporting; and (vi) ensuring ongoing monitoring and evaluation of all work receiving
EAMCEF funding. Other activities which will be undertaken by the Secretariat include,
communications and education and fund raising.
(b)    Applied Biodiversity Research. Under this component the EAMCEF will support research which
strengthens an understanding of the extent and value of biodiversity and ecosystem health in
priority geographic sites, and which can help to reduce the impacts of human pressures on the
ecosystem and its biological resources. Research will be undertaken in the context of overall efforts
to improve the management of the Eastern Arc forests in a way which maintains and increases their
contribution to local and national economic development. GEF support will specifically ensure that
biodiversity conservation is a clear focus of targeted research initiatives which are linked with
forest management and conservation, along with other important objectives such as maintaining
water supplies and providing sustainable supplies of valuable timber and non-timber products.
- 56 -



(c)    Participatory Forest Conservation. The objective of these activities is to increase the share of the
benefits from forest conservation and management to local communities and to ensure that these
continue on a sustainable basis. These activities are fully consistent with Government's policy for
participatory forest management (including co-management) of forest reserves and forests on
customary land. GEF funds will support training, workshops and technical assistance to help
mobilize these stakeholders and enhance their knowledge and skills to become effective forest
management partners.
(d)    Protected Forest Reserve Management activities should strengthen the capacity of FBD or other
institutions with jurisdiction over forest reserves. Improving forest ecological and economic
viability will be of paramount importance. Priority forest management activities for funding under
the Endowment Fund would include improvement of staff capabilities (e.g. training, skills
development of reserve staff), forest management and ecotourism infrastructure (e.g.; trails, access
roads, ranger stations, etc.), conservation education, management planning, and others. Where
appropriate, activities should include a training component.
(e)    Establishment of the Conservation Endowment Fund. The purpose of the Conservation
Endowment Fund is to provide sustainable in-country funding for biodiversity conservation of the
Eastern Arc Forests, in the context of ecologically sustainable development. The EAMCEF Fund
will be established as the long-term financing mechanism to support these activities.
In order to assess progress in meeting the objectives of IDA and GEF support, a Midtern Review will be
carried out at the end of the third project year to assess performance with respect to meeting particular
benchmarks and indicators. Indicators which will trigger release of the Endowment Fund from GEF
include the following: (i) successful establishment and functioning of the Secretariat (i.e. key positions in
the Secretariat have been filled, audits have been completed and are clear, an acceptable 2 year work plan
is developed); (ii) finalization of the Financial, Operations, and Management Manual which defines and
clarifies procedures and operations for the EAMCEF and its approval by IDA; (iii) establishment and
functioning of the Endowment Fund Board (i.e. regular Board meetings, appointment of four new Board
members, application of the procedures for Board members); (iv) development and launching of the fund
raising strategy; (v) grant making activities have begun (proposals solicited, competitive selection
procedures followed, grants awarded and pilot activities are under implementation); (vi) at least one Local
Advisory Conimittee has been established; (vii) documented adherence to the policies, procedures and
principles set forth in the Deed of Trust; (viii) documented significant co-financing for the EAMCEF.
A project agreement will be prepared between Government and the EAMCEF which clarifies respective
responsibilities for IDA and GEF fimds and project management.
Project Component 4 - US$0.70 million
Project Administration and Mana2ement
Finally, the project will finance the costs of administration and management of the project components, in a
manner consistent with World Bank guidance with respect to accounting, financial management, and
procurement.
- 57 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component               US $million   US $million  US $million
A.    Supporting Institutional Change and                 0.00         0.00         0.00
Improving Service Delivery
1.  Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service        6.50         5.30         11.80
2.  Improving Revenue Collection from Forests           2.20          1.00         3.20
and Woodlands
3.  Improving Service Delivery Mechanisms for           5.50         1.60          7.10
Participatory Forest and Woodland Management
B.    Private Sector Involvement in the Management        1.70         1.20         2.90
of Industrial Plantations
C.    Eastern Arc Forests Conservation and Management     0.00         0.00         0.00
1.  Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation                  2.10         6.90         9.00
Endowment Fund
2.  Improving Institutional Support Service for Forest  0.20         0.00          0.20
Biodiversity Conservation
D.    Project Administration and Management               0.50         0.10         0.60
Total Baseline Cost                                      18.70        16.10        34.80
Physical Contingencies                                   1.60         0.80         2.40
Price Contingencies                                      1.80         1.00         2.80
Total Project Costs'             22.10        17.90        40.00
Total Financing Required             22.10         17.90        40.00
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category               US $million   US $million  US $million
Civil Works.                                               4.90           1.30         6.20
Goods and Equipment                                        2.00          2.80          4.80
Consultants' Services                                      4.80          4.40          9.20
Training                                                   4.60           2.50         7.10
Operating Costs                                            5.80          0.40          6.20
Conservation Endowment Fund                                0.00          6.50          6.50
Total Project Costsl    22.10          17.90        40.00
Total Financing Required     22.10         17.90        40.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are 1.3 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 31.5 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 98.73% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 58 -



Annex 4: Economic and Financial Considerations
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Summary
There is an enormous disconnect between the policy objectives which are described in Tanzania's 1998
National Forest Policy, and the prevailing institutional framework which is supposed to deliver on these
objectives. The Policy framework (and the National Forest Program which was developed in response)
describes the role of the public sector as one which is primarily oriented toward cost-effectively delivering
services to the country -- services which should facilitate the role of the private sector, communities, and
other stakeholders in conserving and managing Tanzania's forest resources, or which manage and protect
forests of strategic national and global importance on behalf of the nation. The existing and outdated
institutional framework removes most responsibility from stakeholders who are most dependent on these
resources, and places it in the hands of district govemments which lack the capacity for maintaining
oversight or for managing forest resources with village (or national) interests in mind. At the national level,
the Forest and Beekeeping Division's responsibilities are largely regulatory, and it has limited specific
service delivery functions.
The institutional reforms which FCMP seeks to support through the National Forest Program are intended
to help to establish a new institutional framework, which is primarily oriented toward improving service
delivery functions: facilitating villages to establish Village Forest Reserves, strengthening the capacity for
the management of strategic forest reserves which are being maintained in the national interest, improving
the financial sustainability of forest management interventions, and other local conservation and protection
measures.
Economic Considerations
The current constraints in the forest sector in Tanzania call for a comprehensive approach to the
development of a sector-wide approach toward forest conservation and management. Public financing of
woodland and forest conservation and management is justified both from the perspective of their role in
mitigating the impacts of poverty as well as from the perspective of the environmental value of forests
and woodlands as watershed catchments, which maintain water flows to urban areas and to hydroelectric
generating facilities. Other environmental benefits from forest and woodland conservation and management
accrue because of the value of carbon sequestration. A separate Incremental Cost analysis has been
prepared for those components of the project which specifically focus on conservation of Eastem Arc
Mountains forest biodiversity (to be financed by GEF), and this will be reviewed separately when these
activities are Appraised. Finally, the economic rationale for involving the private sector in industrial
plantation management is also reviewed.
In addition to examining this wider rationale for public financing, the Forest Conservation and Management
Project was also analyzed in terms of its rationale for cost-effectiveness and financial sustainability.
Poverty impacts
Tanzania's woodland and forests are extremely important for mitigating the impacts of rural poverty.
Recent studies (Monela et al, 1999) have shown that fully 40 percent of total household consumption in
some rural areas is accounted for by forest and woodland products such as honey production, firewood,
construction material, and wild fruit and other foods (a point noted in Tanzania's Poverty Reduction
- 59 -



Strategy Paper). In addition, forests and woodlands are an important source of dry season grazing,
reducing households' exposure to environmental risk. Rural households generally use a wide variety of
environmental resources from woodlands, and the sizable aggregate value of environmentally-derived
income is made up of a fairly large number of smaller individual income sources. In other studies from the
region (cf. Cavendish, 1999) , it has also been shown that there is a negative relationship between aggregate
environmental income share and total household income, that the poor are more resource-dependent than
the rich (though better off households are, in quantitative terms, the most significant users of environmental
resources). There is considerable complexity in the factors which determine levels of resource use: different
households use different resources for different reasons at different times. Still, the conclusions are
inescapable: the rural poor are heavily dependent on resources derived from forests and woodlands, and
deforestation and forest degradation poses a significant threat to rural livelihoods.
As such, forests and woodlands are inextricably linked to the social and economic fabric of the
communities living adjacent to them. Stakeholder processes and studies (undertaken during project
preparation) confirmed the importance of these forests to livelihoods and the linkages between effective
forest management, conservation, and poverty reduction. These studies identified both the benefits
associated with conservation (primarily related to water) and the costs associated with changing current
practices. These costs include the potential loss of livelihood for residents engaged in timber felling,
charcoal production, and agriculture (taking place within forest boundaries) and potential economic
adversity for current users of those forest products - such as urban dwellers dependent on charcoal for fuel
and poles for construction and women engaged in local brew making. Indeed discussions with community
groups, foresters, and govemment officials undertaken during project preparation demonstrated
convincingly that virtually all livelihoods in the communities adjacent to forests are dependent in some way
and to varying degrees on forest resources. These findings underscore the importance of developing
comprehensive strategies to address socio-economic issues associated with forest and woodland
conservation and management in Tanzania.
FCMP is designed in part to increase the capacity of villages to manage woodlands. It derives from
experience with pilot and other operations across Tanzania, which suggested significant scope for
improving the effectiveness of this approach toward village-based management. As such, FCMP is seeking
to facilitate the development of local management schemes through cost-effective interventions which serve
primarily to inform villages and communities of policy and legal changes which underpin their rights over
local woodland resources.
Environmental values and the national economy
While the biodiversity of the Tanzania's tropical high forests is of extraordinary intemational significance
and locally is of great value for mitigating the impacts of poverty, the value of these forests to the national
economy, primarily through water and energy production, is of extreme national importance. The Eastem
Arc forests, for example, cover several major catchments which collectively provide water for all of the
nation's coastal communities (including Dar es Salaam with its population of 3 million). These mountain
forests feed more than 22 rivers, including the Sigi, Ruvu, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The Uluguru
catchment, for example, provides the main source of drinking water to both Morogoro town and Dar es
Salaam.
- 60 -



Hydroelectric energy production is similarly heavily dependent on maintaining the integrity of these forests.
Total installed electric generating capacity in Tanzania (maximum annual firm energy) is 1323 GWh (1:60
year reliability). Hydroelectricity accounts for 720 GWh (54 percent) of the total. Of the 6 hydroelectric
stations (Mtera, Kidatu and Lower Kihansi in the Rufiji Basin, and Nyumba ya Mungu, Hale, and New
Pangani Falls on the Pangani River), only 2 (Mtera and Kidatu) have seasonal storage capacity. The rest
are 'run-of-the-river' facilities which depend on more or less constant river flow, which, in turn, is
dependent on the integrity of watershed catchments and the forests found there.
Other environmental services captured by the macro-economy associated with Tanzania's forests impact
positively on agricultural production and also result from timber harvesting (both through the legal and
illegal felling of trees used in construction and to make furniture and charcoal). More recently a small
ecotourism industry has developed. There are some indications of a growing trade in threatened species of
insects and reptiles. Accordingly, there is a strong need for sustainable use of forest products for these
purposes and activities such as tourism which maximize the non-destructive uses of forests.
The idea of collecting environmental rents, especially from the energy and water sectors, has been tabled in
a general way a number of times. These proposals, however, are somewhat disconnected from an
understanding of the tenuous - indeed, highly precarious - financial position of service delivery institutions
such as the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (Tanesco) and the Dar es Salaam Water and Sewerage
Authority (DAWASA). While the capturing of environmental rents may seem to be a good idea in the
abstract, the current public expenditure framework suggests that this would be unrealistic in the short term.
Carbon sequestration
Simply because of their very great extent in Tanzania, miombo woodlands in particular have great potential
for adding to the growing carbon dioxide content of the atmosphere, or helping to reduce it. In the event
that substantial areas of miombo are cleared for cereal crop production in southern Africa, 6 to 10 billion
metric tons of carbon could be released. If, on the other hand, woodlands are managed to maximize carbon
storage, a similar amount could be taken up. In either case, about half of the change in carbon stocks
occurs in the soil, and the rest in above-ground biomass.
Net annual primary production in miombo woodlands is around 10 tons per ha. The annual increment of
woody biomass is usually no more than 3 to 4 percent in mature stands. These rates, which define the
upper limit of the strength of the sink, could be higher in an atmosphere higher in carbon dioxide, but an
increase in net primary productivity of greater than 15 percent is unlikely.
A well stocked hectare of miombo woodland can sequester 200 to 300 tons of carbon. Various sources
place the economic value of sequestered carbon at $5 to $10 per ton, and so there are considerable benefits
to be gained by conserving miombo, by increasing rates of sequestration, or by limiting future losses. For
example, against miombo stocks of around 30 million ha in Tanzania, stocked at a rate of 150 tons of
carbon per hectare, an increase in carbon sequestration of a tenth of a percent over the life of the project
would yield around US$ 22 million in global environmental benefits.
The main techniques for increasing carbon uptake in miombo is the reduction in fire frequency.
Experiments in many parts of Africa have shown that woody biomass and soil carbon both increase if fires
are excluded. Permanent fire exclusion is virtually impossible in the strongly seasonal miombo climate, but
a reduction in frequency is probably achievable at reasonable cost. This would simultaneously increase
carbon dioxide uptake and decrease the emission of methane and ozone precursors. The carbon-storage
- 61 -



benefits of miombo management can be extended by harvesting the timber sustainably, and either
converting it to long-lived products such as furniture, or by using it as an energy source in place of fossil
fuels.
Industrial plantation production
The sixteen industrial forest plantations in Tanzania are under the control of the Forest and Beekeeping
Division. Plantations are organized as projects managed by Forest Project Managers, who report directly to
the Forest Development Division of the FBD in Dar es Salaam. Organizationally plantation projects have
little to do with the district and regional forestry organizations. The plantations are under central FBD
management that in the past has also provided all the funds needed to operate the plantations. Around
1,060 persons work in the plantation projects on FBD's payroll. Most plantation staff are forest assistants.
Many state forest plantation projects are seriously overstaffed; e.g. in Sao Hill and North Kilimanjaro the
labor force could be cut by 50 percent.
In the mid-1990s a forest revenue retention scheme was introduced allowing the MNRT to keep 70 percent
of its royalties and other forest revenue collected from while 30 percent still need to be submitted to the
Treasury. MNRT retains 20 percent of the 70 percent for financing its own administration, and 80 percent
(i.e. 56 percent of the original total revenue) is allocated to the FBD to use for managing central
government forest reserves, including plantations. The central government, through Treasury, still pays all
the salaries of plantation project staff. Each year Forest Project Manager must prepare and submit an
Annual Plan of Operation with a budget to FBD that allocates funds back to the field. Actual
disbursements from the central government to the projects have usually been 30-50 percent of what has
been budgeted by the plantation management. Despite this, plantation projects are under-funded and
cannot fully take care of their management responsibilities such as replanting, thinning and pruning.
Investing in the upgrading of machinery or expanding plantations is for the most part out of the question.
The total collected revenue from government plantations in 1999/00 was TSh 945.0 million. Revenue
collection has more than doubled since 1995 in nominal terms. The revenue increase is mainly due to the
increase in royalty rates and other fees. It also reflects the fact that many plantations have reached maturity
increasing the annual allowable cut opportunities. The share of plantation related revenue of total forest
revenue was 46.1 percent in 1999/00. Unfortunately, it is difficult to get reliable and detailed enough data
on log removals to allow assessing the efficiency of revenue collection from state plantations.
Demands for sawnwood
The demand for domestic logs is driven very much by changes in the domestic sawmilling sector because
there is only very little intemational trade in logs and sawnwood from Tanzania and the Southern Paper
Mills (SPM) has not been operating since 1997. Sawmilling represents currently about 90 percent of total
industrial wood consumption. Most sawmills are very small, producing less than 1,000 m3 per year. In
the last 5-10 years the number of mobile sawmills has mushroomed. In fact, due to their large number their
aggregated production volume is likely to equal, or even exceed, that of traditional sawmills. In addition, pit
sawing is still common in some areas, but there are no statistics about production levels. Mobile sawmills
and pit sawyers supply to the local market and are increasingly producing sawnwood to regional markets
and to Dar es Salaam, Mwanza and other major cities. Domestic prices for sawnwood range between TSh
60,000 and TSh 100,000 per m3 depending on the quality/dimension and market. The demand for
sawnwood is expected to increase between 4 to 6 percent a year during the coming decade amounting to an
average annual increase of 12-16,000 m3. Sustainable long-term supply of sawlogs from industrial
plantations is estimated at about 540-600,000 m3/year.
- 62 -



At present, there is a considerable surplus of sawlogs, although locally the industrial capacity e.g. in the
North can exceed the sustainable supply. In Sao Hill, over-aged plantations have reached 3,300 ha, which
could provide, if the markets allowed, 1.3 million m3 of logs (0.7 million m3 sawlogs) immediately to the
market. On the other hand, due to a very uneven age structure of plantations, the long-term supply of
sawlogs will decline unless new planting and replanting schemes are quickly initiated. Most of the current
log supply is of not very good quality.
Rapid expansion of exports and domestic industrial expansion concentrating on more value-added products
may offer the only alternative to optimize the utilization of these valuable resources and avoid wasting past
investments. Investments into modernizing, and in a way, into restructuring the forest industry sector are
desperately needed. Small, mobile sawmills can be quite efficient and definitely have a role to play
especially in producing low-medium quality sawnwood for the local markets. However, increasing reliance
on small, mobile sawmill operators may devalue the forest plantations. These mills are not interested in
producing quality products, value-added production and exports, and neither do they have the necessary
capital to invest into forest management.
Pulpwood demand
Domestic demand for pulpwood will very much depend on the future of the Southern Paper Mills (SPM) in
Mufindi. It is an integrated pulp and paper mill with a capacity of 60,000 t/year. It is the only paper mill of
sizeable capacity in the country. SPM consumed 150,000 m3 - 200,000 m3 of pulpwood per year after it
started operating in the mid-1980s. At full capacity, its annual wood demand could reach a theoretical
maximum of 360,000 m3 although 300,000 m3 may be a more realistic figure. However, it has been
closed since 1997 leaving considerable pulpwood resources unutilized, and thus endangering the financial
viability of the Sao Hill plantation and the past investments. SPM is one of the companies in the list of
companies to be privatized by the Presidential Parastatal Reform Commission. If the mill were reopened it
would greatly facilitate the marketing of pine and eucalyptus, improve the profitability of sawmilling, and
thus enhance the value of the Sao Hill plantation. Privatization negotiations are going on with a foreign
investor but no sale has been yet agreed.
Intemational markets for softwoods
Export of logs and sawnwood (both hardwoods and softwoods) from Tanzania to overseas markets has
been quite limited in the past. In 1998/99 log and sawnwood exports were 3,897 m3 and 8,066 m3,
respectively. Irrespective of who will be managing the industrial plantations - be it private sector or state -
it will be essential to expand exports from this current low level. This is necessary to:
*   Make use of all available wood that cannot be absorbed by the domestic market;
*   Increase the value of plantations by creating a market for quality wood;
*   Increase competition in the roundwood market resulting in more efficient pricing;
*   Generate foreign exchange as required by the new national Forest Policy.
The key softwood lumber markets from a Tanzanian point of view are Middle-East, Egypt, China and East
Asian markets, including Vietnam. Egypt imports annual almost 2.5 million m3 of sawn softwood, most of
it from Europe but also from fast-growing Pinus radiata plantations e.g. in Chile. China due to its size,
provides another important market. Rapid economic growth, large annual increases in absolute population
combined with introduction of logging restrictions, have caused China to increasingly rely on imported
wood and forest products to meet increasing demand.
- 63 -



Softwood lumber markets are very competitive, especially for commodity (structural and packaging)
lumber, because of rapidly increasing supply of wood from fast growing plantations in New Zealand,
Australia, South Africa and Chile. Increasing supply and competition is anticipated to keep markets under
ongoing price pressure. However, the size of pine export market is so substantial that it should be possible
for Tanzanian producers to expand exports if:
*   Prices are competitive;
*   Quality and dimension requirements are met;
*   New added value products are developed;
*   Consignments are large enough and regular supplies (long-term supply contracts) can be secured;
*   Local industries become more active in their marketing efforts.
Markets for teak
The global teak supply is projected to increase to some 10 million m3/year by 2030 from the current 4
million m3. Africa is a growing source of teak logs and lumber. The current teak plantation are in Tanzania
is estimated to at 5,000 ha, but by 2010 the total area covered by teak will be close to 15,000 ha mainly
because of the expansion of plantations. The domestic market of teak is limited but export opportunities
are good. Wood from thinnings and low quality sawlogs can be sold locally but all quality sawlogs or sawn
teak timber can potentially be exported to the overseas market. The biggest future markets for teak logs and
sawn timber are expected to be India, Thailand, China and Westem Europe. Vietnam may also offer export
opportunities. The future market is that of increasing supplies of plantation grown teak and decreasing
supply of natural teak. This is likely to keep teak log prices relatively stable but still high enough to provide
attractive revenues. Prices for teak logs vary considerably based on quality. Plantation grown teak fetches
low prices relative to natural teak from Burma. Prices in India are US$ 400 - 700 per m3 for Indian and
African plantation teak (Table 3.2).
Potential value of Sao Hill plantations
A series of models were developed to evaluate the value of the Sao Hill plantations. Three different
scenarios were calculated to estimate the potential value of Sao Hill using the following set of assumptions:
Scenario 1: Market for pulpwood assumed. The sales volume is assumed to be maximum 315,000 over
bark (equalling to the maximum capacity of the mill). Pulpwood priced at 14 US$/m3 at mill gate.
Scenario 2: No market for pulpwood. Only 50 percent of the annually available pulpwood is utilized
(mainly by small sawmill operators), who are assumed to pay a stumpage of 5 US$/m3.
Scenario 3: No market for pulpwood. This is the current trend (business as usual scenario) that assumes no
improvement in the quality of management over time and that the prices obtained by the seller (i.e. the
Government) are based on current royalty and LMDA levels.
The estimates of plantation value range from US$ 2.3 million (Scenario 2) to US$ 12.5 US$ million
(Scenario 2), indicating the great impact the future of the Southern Paper Mills will have on the plantation
value. Plantation value in Scenario 1 could be even higher, if sawmills were able to sell slabs and other
waste wood to the pulp and paper mill and thus increase their profitability and wood paying capability. It is
important to note that valuation assumed that markets can be found for most of the sawlogs. This is not
- 64 -



realistic in short term, because of inadequate domestic demand and inadequate experience in meeting the
needs of export markets. The main conclusion that can be derived from the valuation exercise is that the
management of Sao Hill plantation can be financially profitable and that the plantation has a positive net
present value. Another conclusion is that if plantation wood is valued using existing royalties, Sao Hill
would lose money (Scenario 3). The government has been underselling its assets over the years. The
current royalties, even combined with the LMDA, are so low that the government cannot recover all the
costs that it would have to incur if it were to manage all the plantations efficiently and sustainably.
The main factors reducing the value of Sao Hill are:
*   Remote location about 600 km from the main market and export port;
*   Difficulties in finding markets for pulpwood and waste from sawnwood production;
*   Uncompetitive transportation systems;
*   Forest industries with inappropriate and outdated machinery, which reduces wood paying capability;
*   Domestic markets that do not pay attention to quality.
It needs to emphasized that although the estimated prices may appear low, under the current situation they
should be regarded as maximum estimates. The lack of competition in the forestry sector and political and
other risks are likely to reduce the bid values. Whatever measures can be taken to attract the interest of
foreign investors is likely to increase the value of forest plantations.
Plantation value estimates were not found to be sensitive to variations in the discount rate as is normally the
case with plantation project with long gestation periods. This is explained by the large volume of mature
logs immediately available for harvesting as long as there will be a market for all this wood. Under
Scenario 1 the following values were obtained: USS 10.8 million (18 percent), US$ 12.5 million (15
percent) and USS 14.7 million (12 percent). The corresponding figures under Scenario 2 were US$ 2.1,
US$ 2.3 and US$ 2.6 million.
Sensitivity analysis indicates that plantation value depends crucially on the price of wood. A 20 percent
reduction in wood price would make Sao Hill financially unviable. All measures, which will reduce
harvesting and transport costs, can thus be expected to enhance plantation value. Maybe the best way of
maximizing the value of Sao Hill is to improve marketing and concentrate on producing quality logs based
on differential production and pricing. At present, the wood prices are more or less the same irrespective of
quality: low quality wood dominates consumption, and only small quantities are exported.
Financial benefits of PSI
Enhanced private sector involvement will bring a number of benefits, most of them of economic and fiscal
ones. Many of the benefits will not be immediately realized, but will accrue over time through improved
efficiency in production and increased investment by the private sector. It is difficult at this stage to
precisely quantify the benefits. The actual benefits will depend very much on the way the entire PSI process
in the plantation sector is handled and to what extent the Government can increase competition, e.g.
through foreign investment, and improve the overall investment and market environment for forestry.
The implementation of the proposed PSI program is expected to provide the following benefits:
*   Eased budgetary pressure on Government;
*   Greater certainty of tenure and wood supply to encourage both new processing investment and
investment in new plantation forests;
- 65 -



* Improved management of plantation forests, including undertaking arrears of silviculture;
* Better recognition of the needs and aspirations of local communities as stakeholders and future joint
forest owners in plantations where land pressure is an issue;
* Liberalization of forest product markets, through the elimination of state subsidies and market price
distortions through opening them up to greater competition;
* Greater certainty and new career options for staff currently employed by FBD;
* Attraction of possible foreign investment and technology to the sector;
* Increased export earnings;
* Reduced pressure on indigenous forests for the supply of timber products;
* Revenue generation for Government during the divestment process.
The main financial benefits to the Government from implementing this component will the savings in the
costs. At present the Government is not making any net profit out of plantation management but it is
spending more than it is earning (especially if you include all the capital costs). Annual plantation-related
labor costs alone were estimated to be more than TSh 800 billion or US$ 1 million in 1998/99. During the
same year an additional TSh 263 million was allocated by FBD for operational costs. In contrast, the
annual plantation revenue during the same year was only TSh 681,445,550 or US$ 0.85 million.
There is not enough data on the forest plantation resources, management costs and forest product markets
to allow proper valuation of plantations and to estimate the value private sector would be prepared to pay
for their management. Sao Hill, the most important plantation in the country, was used as a case study to
derive initial benefits from privatization. A high real discount rate of 15 percent was adopted to allow for
the high capital costs and investment risk in Tanzania. Depending on the market situation (especially for
the pulpwood, which again is linked to the future of the Southern Paper Mills), the estimated economic
value of Sao Hill (32,300 of established plantations) ranges between US$ 2.3 million and 12.5 million. If
the Government were able to capture the lowest estimated value, i.e. US$ 2.3 million, the total
sub-component investment cost of 2.7 million would be almost entirely covered. However, it must be
accepted that transferring state plantations under private management will take years, and full benefits from
it cannot thus be realized immediately.
Without any changes in the log pricing, plantation management will not be financially viable. Sao Hill
would have a negative net present value under the existing royalty system and assuming that adequate
flmds were invested in maintaining the growing stock. This is a hypothetical calculation, because the FBD
is actually not investing enough in forest management, and consequently the growing stock is in reality
declining because of neglect, fire damage, and inadequate replanting. The real "without a project" scenario
would include estimates of current benefit and costflows as well as depreciation offorest capital. This
type of analysis was not possible given the existing data. However, an initial attempt was made to estimate
the "with and without" project scenarios, to be able to assess incremental benefits.
Benefits from improved management
Improved resource information base and increased private sector involvement will improve management
efficiency and plantation productivity. An attempt was made to quantify the possible impacts of these
improvements in terms of wood growing costs for new plantations. The (compounded) costs savings for
pine were US$ 3-4 per cubic meter, or 20-22 percent of total costs, including the establishment, annual
maintenance and overhead costs over the entire rotation. The savings are mainly due to reduced wastage
and improved yields. Under the current (business as usual scenario) costs were estimated at US$ 16-17 per
m3 (over bark) and under the new scenario US$ 13 per m3 at 15 percent, and US$ 8 and US$ 11 at 12
percent discount rate.
- 66 -



*   Improved rent recovery. The introduction of a more competitive log sales system will results in more
efficient and fair pricing. It will result in maximum 20 percent (see the above text) increase in revenue
per harvested cubic meter. However, in some cases prices are expected to drop in relation to current
combined and LMDA levels. Assuming that annual cut is 350,000 m3 and that 250,000 m3 of that
would be priced 3 USS/m3 higher, and 100,000 m3 US$ 3 lower per cubic meter, a net annual benefit
estimate of US$ 750,000 can be derived.
*   Impact on poverty alleviation and employment. Plantation forests are located in rural areas, and
provide thus benefits to the rural populations. Villagers would continue enjoying the same benefits as
before e.g. in terms of access to fuelwood. Improving profitability of tree growing, better markets and
increased private sector investment will in the long term create new employment opportunities both in
the plantations and the wood-based industries. Enhanced PSI in the plantation sector can initially lead
to increased unemployment, because of rationalizing the existing labor force in the sector and because
of the lead-time for increased follow-on private sector investment.
*   Impact on environment. Although it is accepted that plantation forests are generally planting exotic
species on monocultural regimes, their impacts on the environment will be positive. It is planned that
environmentally sensitive areas are excluded from the PSI process already during the planning stage.
The environmental assessments during the planning stage will also concentrate on protecting any areas
of indigenous biodiversity; assessing harvesting, road construction and management practices to ensure
that soil erosion potential is minimized and water values are enhanced; and ensuring that any use of
chemicals in plantation management is in accordance with internationally accepted codes of practice.
It is expected that certain plantations or parts of a plantation will be classified as catchment forests or
buffer zone forests based on explicit criteria. The most critical ones will be entirely excluded from the PSI
process. The possible dual function forests will have additional environmental guidelines for their
management.
Overall the existing State owned plantation forests area and any expansion of such forests under private
sector ownership will be small in relation to the natural forest area (currently plantation forests cover
160,000 ha to 200,000 ha compared with the 33.6 mill ha of natural forest). Their impact on construction
wood supply however is major, with the most recent survey estimating that plantation wood is supplying
over 50 percent of construction timber in Dar es Salaam and Arusha. Plantation forest wood supply, with
its lower cost, continuity/ certainty of supply, and increasing market acceptance, is having an important
impact on eroding the market for illegally cut natural forest timbers and thus assisting in the preservation of
natural forests.
Financial Considerations
Financial issues with respect to the forestry sector were reviewed as part of the Forest Resources
Management Project (FRMP, 1996), during preparation of the National Forest Program (Salmi, 2000), and
as part of preparation of this project (Kobb, 2001).
Public funding for forestry is generally inadequate and irregular. Over the last 10 years, budgets to the
Forest and Beekeeping Division have been increasing in nominal terms -- growing four-fold from 1993/94
to 1999/2000, though have remained roughly constant when inflation is taken into account. In 1999/2000,
FBD's budget was around TSh 2.5 billion (US$ 3.2 million at the then prevailing exchange rate), but this
only covered salaries and did not finance either recurrent or development expenditures. Outside of specific
donor-financed activities, development and recurrent costs are partly financed by retained revenues, which
currently total around 56 percent of all revenues collected from the sale of timber and other products from
- 67 -



central government Forest Reserves. For the most part, FBD relies of District staff (rather than FBD staff)
to collect revenues, with the exception of the plantation sector, which accounts for around 40 percent of
total revenues collected. In 1999/2000, revenues from Central Government Forest Reserves (including
plantations) totalled roughly TSh 2 billion (around US S2.6 million at the exchange rate which prevailed at
the time). FBD expenditures from the budget allocation plus revenues retained in 1999/2000 totalled
around TSh 3.6 billion (US$ 4.7 million).
Financing of the forestry sector by the donor community peaked in 1991/92, when donor spending
(estimated at US$ 24 million) accounted for 90 percent of all spending in the forestry sector. Currently, it
is estimated to account for around 68 percent of all spending in the forestry sector. In 1999/2000, donor
spending which was captured by the budget process totalled TSh 7.75 billion (around US$ 10 million). It
is difficult to compare the efficiency of public vs. donor spending because of the highly distorted impact of
heavy investments in relatively expensive technical assistance to manage donor financed projects.
The bulk of donor assistance, however, is not mediated by the budget process. As much as 60 percent of
donor investments in forestry pass are not captured by the budget. In this environment, arguably, donor
resources are financing donor priorities, rather than the priorities outlined in Tanzania's forest policy. It is
widely agreed that the donor community needs to focus its priorities in a manner which is more carefully
aligned with Govemment's. The National Forest Program poses a mechanism for doing this.
The development of a sector-wide approach to financing of the forestry sector is a longer term objective of
FCMP. Investments in improving financial management, procurement management, overall institutional
management, and in meeting service delivery standards are intended to establish the institutional framework
for a sector-wide approach.
Improvements in the framework for royalty collection are expected to strengthen the overall financial
sustainability of the Tanzania Forest Service. FCMP proposes to change the overall framework, and to
develop the means for returning revenues to villages and other forest managers.
References
Acres International (2000). Power System Master Plan. 2000 Update prepared for the Tanzania Electric
Supply Company.
Cavendish, W. (1999). Poverty, inequality and environmental resources: quantitative analysis of rural
households. Working Paper 1999.9. Oxford, Center for the Study of African Economies,
University of Oxford.
FRMP (1996). Long-term financing of forestry. Report prepared for the Forest and Beekeeping Division.
Hartley, D. and Kaare, S. (2001). Institutional, Policy, and Livelihood Analysis of Communities Adjacent
to Uluguru Mountains Catchment Reserves, Eastern Arc Mountains. Dar es Salaam, CARE
Tanzania.
Kobb, D. (2001). Improving forestry revenue collection in Tanzania. Report prepared for the World
Bank.
- 68 -



Monela, G.C., G.C. Kajembe, A.R.S. Kaoneka and G. Kowero. (1999). Household Livelihood Strategies
in the Miombo woodlands of Tanzania: emerging trends. Report prepared for the Center for
International Forestry Research.
Ogle, A. and Katila, M. (2000). Involvement of the private sector in industrial plantations development
and management. Report to the Forestry and Beekeeping Division.
Salmi, J. (2000). Study on financing in forestry. Report prepared for the National Forest Program.
Scholes, R. (1996). Miombo woodlands and carbon sequestration. In, Campbell, B. (1996). The
Miombo in Transition: Woodlands and Welfare in Africa. Bogor (Indonesia), Center for
International Forestry Research.
Wild, Robert (1998). A Framework for the Development of a holistic strategy for the Eastern Arc
Mountains of Tanzania. Dar es Salaam, CARE Tanzania.
- 69 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Years Ending
June 30
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD         .
Year 1I Year 2    I Year 3  I Year 4   1 Year 5  I Year 6   | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs           4.7       6.4       15.0       6.5       5.0
Recurrent Costs            0.2        0.4       0.5        0.6       0.7
Total Project Costs          4.9       6.8       15.5       7.1       5.7        0.0       0.0
,Total Financing             4.9        6.8      15.5        7.1       5.7       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  4.7        6.4       8.3        6.5       5.2
Government                0.1        0.3       0.3        0.2       0.1
Central
Provincial
Co-financiers
Global Environment        0.1        0.1       6.6        0.1       0.1
Facility
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.3        0.3       0.3
Others
Others
Others
Others
Total Project Financing     4.9        6.8      15.5       7.1        5.7      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Assumes that the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund is capitalized at the end of the third
project year, and generates revenues which can be used by the EAMCEF Board.
-70 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Procurement
General
Public procurement procedures in Tanzania are in the process of reform. In February 2001, new
procurement legislation was passed by Parliament and was subsequently signed into law by the President
(The Public Procurement Act, No. 3 of 2001). The Bank contributed substantially to the development of
the new legislation. Supporting regulations have been drafted and are under review by the Bank.
The new Act applies to all procurement undertaken by public institutions, except for financially
independent parastatal organizations and for defense procurement. The Act specifies several tender boards
with responsibility for procurement, tender evaluation, and contract award in accordance with
pre-determined thresholds. The tender boards include: the Central Tender Board (CTB) under the Ministry
of Finance; Ministry Tender Boards (MTB) under each ministry; Independent Departmnent Tender Boards
(IDTB) under each independent department of the government; Regional Tender Boards (RTB) under each
region; District Tender Boards (DTB) under each district; Parastatal Tender Boards for every goveming
body of the parastatal organization; and Local Government Authority Tender Boards (LGATB) under each
council. Except for LGATB, thresholds of the remaining tender boards are prescribed in the Regulations
and subject to review on annual basis by the Minister responsible for Finance if need arises. The Bank
intends to provide assistance in implementing the new procurement legislation and regulations through the
planned Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project.
Procurement capacity
Procurement in this project will be mainstreamed within the structure of the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out and concluded that the Overall
Procurement Risk is Average. In conjunction with this assessment, the Bank has recommended, and it was
agreed, that: (i) the Ministry (Forestry and Beekeeping Division) should retain the Procurement Specialist
currently contracted by the Ministry or should recruit a new one with equivalent qualifications and
experience or higher; (ii) the Ministry should prepare Internal Instructions articulating the new Regulations
to assist procurement staff who will deal with procurement for FCMP to enable them to carry out
procurement in an efficient manner; (iii) the Ministry should use IDA's Standard Bidding Documents and
Standard Form of Evaluation for ICB and NCB (with modifications) procurement; and (iv) the Ministry
should use IDA's Standard Requestfor Proposals and Standard Form of Evaluation for the selection of
Consultants.
To ensure that there is continued capacity building in the area of procurement, the Procurement Specialist,
the secretary to the Ministry Tender Board (MTB), and other project procurement staff will receive further
training in procurement, in particular, IDA procurement procedures, to enhance their skills.
Procurement Plan
MNRT has prepared an overall procurement plan to cover the entire project period. The Ministry has also
prepared detailed procurement plans for the first project year. The first year procurement plan includes
relevant information on all goods, works, and consulting services expected to be procured, and their
- 71 -



estimated cost; type of contract; procurement/selection method as well as timing in the procurement
process. The procurement plan will be updated on annual basis in conjunction with preparation of the
Annual Work Program and Budget.
Procurement Implementation Arrangements
Procurement will be carried out using existing MNRT structures. FBD will be responsible for day to day
procurement. Procurement at the department level will be carried out by a Procurement Specialist
contracted by the Ministry. The Procurement Specialist will be responsible for, among other things: (i)
preparation of the GPN; (ii) preparation of SPNs; (iii) draft bidding documents and RFPs; (iv) draft
contract documents; and (v) contract administration and management. In recruiting and employing
consultants, the unit or section in need of the consultant will be responsible for drafting TORs and will
coordinate with the Procurement Specialist for further processing. The MNRT Director of Administration
and Personnel (DAP), through the Supplies Officer Incharge will be responsible for pre-screening all
procurement documents prior to forwarding to the MTB for approval or award of contracts. The Supplies
Officer Incharge will be assisted by another Supplies Officer, who will be assigned to the office of the DAP
specifically to deal with procurement of activities related to this project. A Procurement Evaluation
Committee will be constituted on an ad hoc basis to evaluate bids and proposals. The Procurement
Specialist will be secretary and member of the Committee.
Procurement financed under the project will comprise the recruitment of consultants services and training,
office equipment, vehicles, civil works, and operating costs. The Procurement Specialist, with Ministry
oversite, will be responsible for ensuring that procurement for works and goods is carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (dated January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, in September 1997, and January 1999) and that consultancy services
financed by IDA are procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997, and revised September 1997 and January
1999).
A General Procurement Notice has been published in United Nations Development Business (UNDB) and
includes a description of required services or goods, the client agency, and the budgeted cost. This notice
will be updated every year during the execution of the projects until all contracts and assignments have
been procured. In the case of contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent, Specific
Procurement Notices will be issued in UNDB, and will be advertised in the national, regional, and/or
international press.
To the extent possible, procurement arrangements have been designed to respond to the need for flexible
use of procurement methods. A detailed Procurement Plan, based on the inputs identified in Project
Implementation Plan, has been prepared, and will be revised annually during preparation of the Annual
Work Program and Budget. Whenever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into
appropriately-scaled contracting packages with a value of $150,000 and over.
To complement a LACI compatible financial management system, FBD will also implement a procurement
management and monitoring system. The system should be designed in order to: (i) estimate cash forecasts
for withdrawals under the LACI system, and to (ii) monitor physical progress of outputs against contracts
committed.
Most procurement of goods, works, and services will be carried out by FBD. Procurement will be managed
by the Ministerial Tender Board, in line with the regulatory framework established by recent legislation.
- 72 -



Aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works are limiting and
cannot be exceeded without the Bank's prior 'no objection.' The Ministry will maintain a tracking system to
monitor such procurement in order to alert the Bank in a timely manner when this may occur. Prior review
thresholds are indicated in Table B of this Annex.
Civil Works
Civil works contracts will include infrastructure for Forest Department Headquarters, and minor civil
works and building rehabilitation as required at regional and district levels. The Ministry will first carry
out an infrastructure needs assessment before launching regional and district infrastructure programs. Civil
works costing less that $50,000 per contract (up to aggregate total not exceeding $200,000) will be
procured on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract
successfully. Civil works costing more than $50,000 but less than $150,000 (up to an aggregate total not
exceeding $250,000) will be procured on the basis of NCB. Civil work costing greater than $150,000 will
be procured through ICB. Prequalification will be required for all ICB contracting.
The contract for construction of headquarters building, estimated to cost about US$ 5.0 million equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding (ICB) using Bank Guidelines and Bank
Standard Bidding Documents for Smaller Works, (January 1995, with corrigenda Nos. I to 4) and
modified to meet project needs. Contracts for district infrastructure not exceeding US$ 150,000 equivalent
will be awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. This
would include advertising the works, public opening of bids, clearly stated evaluation criteria and award of
contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. Foreign bidders, if interested would not be precluded from
participation. The new Public Procurement Act provides for this requirement. The civil works contracts
will be supervised by consulting firms selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Works and Goods and the Standard Bid Evaluation Forms
would be used for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procurement. Since the government has not
prepared Standard Bidding Documents that could be used for National Competitive Bidding (NCB) as per
the new Act, IDA's Standard Bidding Documents for Works and Goods and the Standard Bid Evaluation
Forms would be used for NCB procurements as well with necessary modifications.
Goods
Individual contracts for goods with an estimated value of less than $30,000 will be procured using local or
international shopping, for an aggregate not to exceed $ 400,000 based on comparing price quotations from
at least three suppliers in response to written invitation. Individual contracts for goods more than US$
30,000 per contract and less than $150,000 per contract will be procured through National Competitive
Bidding procedures for an aggregate not to exceed $400,000. The first three of these contracts will be
subject to prior review. For contracts estimated to cost $150,000 and above, International Competitive
Bidding will be used. Individual units of office equipment (individual fax machines, pnnters, and laptop
computers) as well as individual vehicles may be purchased through the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations with an aggregate value not to exceed $300,000.
- 73 -



Consultants' services and training
Services for all components of the project, including studies, technical assistance, and the supervision of
works, which require the recruitment of consulting firms or individual consultants will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers. The cost of audits will also be financed by the Credit. The Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals; Forms of Contracts as needed (lump-sum, time based, and/or simplified contracts for
short-term assignments and individual consultants); and Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the
selection of consultants would be used.
Individual consultants contracts and consulting firms contracts below the threshold of US$50,000 and
US$ 100,000 respectively may be awarded on the basis of qualifications and experience in accordance with
Bank guidelines. For these contracts, prior review will be required of all TORs, proposed budgets,
contracts, and consultant qualifications. Sole sourcing may be allowed on an exceptional basis and with the
prior agreement with IDA, subject to the conditions outlined in the Guidelines. Prior review will also be
required of all single-source consultancies, regardless of their value. Contracts for individual consultants
below US$ 50,000, and for consulting firms below US $100,000, will be subject to post-review. Prior
review will be required for individual contracts above US$50,000 and above US$100,000 for firms.
With regard to workshops, training, study tours and field expenses, prior review of all activities will be
required, including proposed budget, agenda, participants, location of training, and other relevant details.
Incremental operating costs
Incremental operating costs are defined to mean building, equipment, and vehicle maintenance costs, fuel,
office supplies, building rental charges, utilities, and telecommunications costs, and the costs of Project
support staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the civil service (which are, in any event, not eligible for
IDA financing).
For most activities, however, prior review will be limited to contracts above the thresholds stated above.
IDA may request prior review of bid documents, evaluation methods and contracts for which they require
more detailed information. Similarly, any request for no objection will be formally replied by IDA.
Post review
Procurement actions not subject to prior review as described above will be subject to post-review. This is to
allow for efficient disbursement of funds while assuring transparency and consistency with these
procedures. All documentation used for the procedures of contracting , recruitment of consulting services,
evaluation and award shall be retained for subsequent examination by independent auditors and IDA
supervision missions.
Frequency of procurement supervision missions
Once every six (6) months (including special procurement supervision for post-review/audits). The overall
procurement risk assessment is rate average. The following steps are designed to mitigate procurement risk:
- 74 -



Action                                    Deadline                        Responsible
The Ministry of Natural Resources and     On board/before effectiveness   Borrower
Beekeeping to retain the Procurement
Specialist currently contracted by the
Ministry or recruit a new one with equal
qualifications and experience or high.
Prepare Intemal Instructions articulating the  Within one year of         Borrower
New Public Procurement Act and Regulations. implementation
Training of staff, who deal with procurement. Prior to or at time of launching  IDA/Borrower
the project and continuous
thereafter
Detailed draft Procurement Plan for the first  By negotiations            Borrower/IDA
year
IDA's prior review of the first three contracts  Early days of implementation  IDA
below thresholds                          stage
Use of IDA Standard Bidding Documents     Life of the Project             Borrower
for NCB procurements
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure   International  National  International  Local  Consulting From UN Conservation  Total
Category       Competitive Competitive  Shopping   Shopping  Services/  Agencies Endowment
Bidding     Bidding                          Training             Fund /b
A. Civil Works     4.4         1.9                                                             6.3
(4.0)      (1.7)                                                            (5.7)
B. Goods           1.4         1.4        0.5         0.9                 0.5                  4.7
(1.3)       (1.3)      (0.4)       (0.8)               (0.4)                 (4.2)
C. Consultants'                                                 9.3                            9.3
Services                                                       (9.2)                           (9.2)
D. Training /a                                                  6.9                            6.9
(6.6)                          (6.6)
D. Operating                                          6.3                                      6.3
Costs                                                (5.4)                                    (5.4)
E. Conservation                                                                      6.5       6.5
Endowment                                                                           (0.0)      (0.0)
Fund /b
Total Project      5.8         3.3        0.5         7.2       16.2      0.5        6.5       40.0
Costs, by
method of
Procurement
... amounts       (5.3)       (3.0)      (0.4)       (6.2)     (15.8)    (0.4)      (0.0)     (31.1)
financed by IDA,
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit. All costs include contingencies.
\a Includes workshops, training, and study tours, as well as consultancies which are geared toward capacity building.
\b Comprised of GEF financing, to be separately Appraised.
- 75 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Mlethods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category    Contract value      Procurement method          Contracts subject to
prior review
A. Civil Works /a       < $50,000           Quotations (up to an aggregate  first three contracts
value of $200,000), awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained
from three qualified national
contractors
>= $50,000 but      NCB for an aggregate not to  All
< $150,000          exceed $250,000
>= $150,000         ICB                         All
B. Goods                < $30,000           Local or Intemational       None
Shopping, for an aggregate not
to exceed $400,000        ___                 _
>= $30,000 but      NCB, for an aggregate not to  first three contracts subject
< $150,000          exceed $400,000             to prior review
>- $150,000         ICB                         All
Individual units of  IAPSO. Individual contracts not none
office equipment,   to exceed S30,000 for an
furmiture, vehicles  aggregate not to exceed
$300,000.
C. Consultants' Services  >= $50,000 for    Individual Qualifications. Sole  All
and Training (including  individuals        sourcing may be allowed,
Audits)                                     subject to clauses 3.8 - 3.11 of
Guidelines.
>= $ 100,000 for    QCBS                        All
firms
< $50,000 for       Individual Qualifications. Sole  TORs, budget,
individuals or      sourcing may be allowed,    qualifications, contract
< $100,000 for firms;  subject to clauses 3.8 - 3.11 of
Guidelines.
Workshops, training,  Acceptable national practice  All
study tours
D. Incremental operating  All operating costs  Local shopping           None
costs                   and field expenses
- 76 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
All disbursements of IDA funds will be handled in a manner which is consistent with the World Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, and as described in the Development Credit Agreement. Funds will be disbursed
over 5 year period, planned to begin in June, 2002. The Completion Date will be June 30, 2007 and the
Closing Date will be December 31, 2007.
As part of project preparation an Accounting and Financial Management Manual was prepared, and has
been incorporated into the Project Implementation Manual. Five disbursement categories are envisaged:
civil works, goods and equipment, consulting services, training, and operating costs.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Civil works                             5.10            100 percent of foreign expenditures;
90 percent of local expenditures
2. Goods                                   4.10            100 percent of foreign expenditures;
90 percent of local expenditures
3. Consulting services and audits          8.50                      100 percent
4. Training                                6.00                      100 percent
5. Incremental operating costs             4.90                      90 percent
6. Refund of Project Preparation           0.60                 Amount due pursuant to
Advance                                                    Section 2.02 (b) of the Development
Credit Agreement
7. Unallocated                             1.90
Total Project Costs                        31.10
Total                                      31.10
Summary of the financial management assessment:
A financial management assessment was carried out during Appraisal mission which indicated that the
Ministry's Finance Department and staff have adequate financial management systems which can provide,
with reasonable assurance, timely infornation on the status of the project as required by the borrower and
IDA. The government financial management system and controls over public finances have recently been
updated and strengthened under the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) using computerized
accounting software (the so-called 'Platinum' system). A satisfactory project Accounting and Financial
Management Manual describing the accounting system, procedures, internal controls, chart of accounts
and roles and responsibilities of the key staff responsible for IDA finances has been developed. The
Ministry has wide experience in implementing IDA projects and in managing IDA funds from the previous
Forest Resources Management project. Therefore, the project financial management system is adequate for
the project to be presented to the Board and the project is ready for implementation.
A review of accounting and financial management systems concluded that, while FBD has extensive
experience in working with Bank procurement and disbursement, it is currently not capable of complying
with new Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Guidelines. Two actions must be completed in
order to become LACI-compliant:
- 77 -



*   Before the project is declared effective, an additional Ministry-qualified accountant should be deployed
on a full-time basis to assist the current project accountant in the project financial matters;
* The project will be reassessed for LACI compliance when a LACI compatible financial reporting
format acceptable to the Bank has been prepared (based on the Revised LACI guidelines).
Once FBD is assessed to be LACI capable, the Credit Agreement will be amended to reflect that
disbursements are to take place on the basis of Project Management Reports thereafter. In this event, it
envisaged that the project will adopt streamlined disbursement procedures once LACI Guidelines have been
met. The decision to adopt streamlined disbursement procedures will be made in consultation with a Bank
Financial Management Specialist who will:
*   review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions, operation of the Special
Account, SOE submissions and docurnentation retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of
project management and accounting staff;
*   ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
*   review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
*   review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
an opinion on the reliability of project accounts;
*   review the PMR format designed to be used in conjunction with the Platinum computerized accounting
package.
Audit arrangements:
Audited financial statements (project, SOEs, and Special Account/ PMR) will be prepared and submitted
within 6 months of the close of each Fiscal Year. The Terms of Reference for the Audit are included in the
Accounting and Financial Management Manual. Audits remain the responsibility of the Controller and
Auditor General. Additional costs which may be incurred to complete the audit will be covered by the
project. Documentation with respect to SOE/PMR expenditures will be retained by the Ministry at the
Ivory Rooms.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures
for incremental operating costs, training costs, and contracts with a value of $30,000 or less for goods and
equipment, $50,000 or less for civil works, $100,000 or less for consultants services (firms), $50,000 or
less for consultants services (individuals), for which reimbursements or replenishments to the Special
Account may be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be
retained by the Government and will be available for inspection and review as requested by IDA
Supervision Missions and by project auditors.
Special account:
It is envisaged that a single Special Account, acceptable to IDA, will be established. The authorized
allocation of this account will be US$ 1,000,000, though the balance will be maintained at $500,000 until
total disbursements have exceeded SDR 5 million. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account will
be submitted to IDA every month until submission of quarterly PMRs commences. Each replenishment
request will accompanied by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement. The size of the
authorized allocation may be revised once experience with LACI-compatible disbursement and financial
management procedures is gained.
- 78 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Project Schedule                                   Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                      . .
First Bank mission (identification)                                          01/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                                                   10/01/2001
Negotiations                                                                 12/11/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                                06/15/2002
Prepared by:
The project was prepared by the Forestry and Beekeeping Division of the Ministry of Natural Resources
and Tourism under the direction of a Project Preparation Working Group. The PPWG comprised,
Dr. Felician Kilahama, Assistant Director of Forestry, Group Leader
Mr. J. Musokwa, Project Implementation Specialist
Dr. G. Monela, Associate Professor of Forest Economics, Sokoine University of Agriculture
Dr. P. Yanda, Director, Tanzania Natural Resources Information Center, University of Dar es
Salaam
Dr. I. Aloo, Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Ms. Amina Akida, Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Ms. T. Mbaga, Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Mr. Matthew Mndolwa, Tanzania Forest Research Institute
The PPWG has employed various consultants to provide assistance during preparation. These have
included:
Prof. R. Ishengoma, Human Resources Development Specialist, Dean, Faculty of Forestry,
Sokoine University of Agriculture
Alan Ogle, Private Sector Forestry Specialist, Groome Poyry
Marko Katila, Private Sector Forestry Specialist, Jaako Poyry
Fortune Charumbira, Institutional Change Specialist, Consultant
Ray Victurine, GEF Trust Fund Specialist, Cascadia Consulting
Prof. R. Malimbwi, Forest Management Specialist, Professor of Forest Mensuration and
Management, Faculty of Forestry, Sokoine University of Agriculture
Liz Wily, Community-based Natural Resources Management Specialist, Consultant
Barney Laseko, Financial Management Specialist, Consultant
O.Mkungu, Accountant
N.G. Sem, Procurement Specialist
In addition, the Bank provided further preparation assistance,
Toshifumi Serizawa (Natural Resource Management Specialist), SADC Food Security and Rural
Development Hub, Harare
Dan Kobb (Governance and Revenue Specialist), Consultant
Ken Green, Social and Environmental Safeguards Specialist, Consultant
Marc Daudon, GEF Trust Fund Specialist, Cascadia Consulting
- 79 -



Melissa Moye, GEF Trust Fund Specialist, Consultant
Kithinji Kiragu, Institutional Reform Specialist
Assistance to prepare GEF/UNDP financed activities was provided by a team with CARE/Tanzania.
Preparation assistance:
The project was prepared with resources made available from a PPF, a Policy and Human Resources
Development Trust Fund and with a PDF/B Grant from the Global Environment Facility.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Peter A. Dewees                    Lead Environmental Specialist, Task Team Leader, AFTES
Ladisy Chengula                    Rural Development Specialist, AFTRI
Pascal Tegwa                       Procurement Specialist, AFTQK
Mercy Sabai                        Financial Management Specialist, AFTQK
The Project was Appraised in October, 2001. In addition to these staff, the Banks team was comprised of
Kithinji Kiragu (Institutional Change Specialist)
Jyrki Salmi (Sector Program Specialist, Consultant to the National Forest Program)
Campbell Day (Forest Management Specialist, Consultant to Norad)
Margrethe-Holm Anderson (Participatory Forest Management Specialist, Danida)
Per Rasmussen (Participatory Forest Management Specialist, Consultant to Danida).
The Government of Tanzania team was comprised of:
Dr. Felician Kilahama (Forestry and Beekeeping Division)
George Mbonde (Assistant Director, Forest Development)
G.P. Mashurano (Assistant Director, Forest Utilization)
I.Y. Mnangwone (Assistant Director, Research, Training, and Statistics)
D. Kihwele (Assistant Director, Beekeeping)
Stephen Mariki (Coordinator, National Forest Program).
- 80 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Managemenit Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Manual
Annex 1. Improving Service Delivery through Institutional Reform: Establishment of the Tanzania Forest
Service.
Annex 2. Improving Service Delivery for Participatory Forest Management
Annex 3. Improving the Financial Sustainability of Forest and Woodland Management
Annex 4. Involvement of the Private Sector in the Development and Management of Industrial Plantations.
Annex 5. Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund, Financial, Operations, and Management
Plan
Annex 6. Accounting and Financial Management Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Pascal Tegwa, Procurement Capacity Assessment, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, October
16, 2001;
Mercy Sabai, Financial Management Assessment, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, October
25, 2001
C. Other
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (1998), National Forest Policy;
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism (2001), National Forestry Program;
Daniel Kobb, Improving Forestry Revenue Collection in Tanzania, 20 February 2001;
Marko Katila and Alan Ogle, Involvement of the Private Sector in the Industrial Forest Plantation
Development and Management, 16 February 2001;
Wily, L.A. and P.A.Dewees. From users to custodians: changing relations between people and the state in
forest management in Tanzania. World Bank Policy Research Working Paper No. 2569. March
2001;
Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund (2001). Trust Deed of the Eastern Arc Mountains
Conservation Endowment Fund. March 20, 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 81 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
03-Jan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                       IBRD        IDA                  GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P002797        2002 TZ SONGO SONGO GAS DEV. & POWER GEN.              0.00     183.00                 0.00      0.00     1a4.33       0.00      0.00
P071012        2002 Pnmary Education Development Program              0.00     150.00                 0.00      0.00     150.67       0.00      0.00
P073397        2002 Lower Kihansi Environmental Management            0.00       6.30                 0.00      0.00       5.98       0.28      0.00
P065372        2001 SOCIAL ACTION FUND PROJECT                        0.00      60.00                 0.00      0.00      50.16       3.67      0.00
P069982        2001 Regional Trade Fac. Proj. - Tanzania              0.00      15.00                 0.00      0.00      14.68       1.88      0.00
P049838        2000 PRIVATIZATION                                     0.00      45.90                 0.00      0.00      35.22      15.91      0.00
P050441        2000 RURAL& MICRO FIN SVC                              0.00       2.00                 0.00      0.00       1.52       1.30      0.00
P057187        2000 FIDP 11                                           0.00      27.50                 0.00      0.00      19.33      13.96      0.00
P058627        2000 Health Sector Development Program                 0.00      22.00                 0.00      0.00      16.68      -0.08      0.00
P060833        2000 PUBLIC SERV REF PROG                              0.00      41.20                 0.00      0.00      31.00      -7.10      0.00
P002822        2000 TANZANIA PSAC I                                   0.00     190.00                 0.00      0.00     113.29     -67.68      0.00
P047761        1999 TAX ADMINISTRATION                                0.00      40.00                 0.00      0.00      26.49      14.60      0.00
P002804        1998 AGRIC RESEARCH                                    0.00      21.80                 0.00      0.00      10.13       4.10      0.00
P002789        1996 HUMAN RESOURCE DEV 1                              0.00      20.90                 0.00      0.00       3.43       0.46      0.00
P046837        1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                                0.00      10.10                 0.00      0.00       6.08       0.79      0.00
P038570        1997 TZ:RIVER BASIN MGM.SMAL                           0.00      26.30                 0.00      0.00       8.74       6.55      0.00
P002753        1997 NAT EXT PROJ PH.I                                 0.00      31.10                 0.00      0.00       7.50      10.30      1.68
P046872        1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV                                 0.00       9.80                 9.80      0.00       0.65       0.30      0.00
P002758        1996 URBAN SECTOR REHAB                                0.00     105.00                 0.00      0.00      25.93      18.44      0.00
P002770        1994 ROADS If                                          0.00     170.20                 0.00      0.00     109.36     119.15     41.49
P002757        1991 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURI                              0.00      76.00                 0.00      11.26      5.68      14.97      3.86
Total:        0.00    1254.10               9.80       11.26     828.81     151.81      47.03
- 82 -



TANZANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996/99            AEF A&K Tanzania             0.21    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.21    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               AEF Aquva Ginner             0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Blue Bay                  1.45   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.45   0.00     0.00   0.00
2001               AEF Boundary Hil             0.20     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20   0.00     0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Contiflora               0.35    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Drop Zanziba             0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               AEF Hort. Farns              0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30    0.00     0.00   0.00
1998               AEF Maji Masafi              0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               AEF Milcafe                  0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00     0.00   0.00
1994               AEF Moshi Lthr               0.00    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.19     0.00   0.00
1999               AEF Musoma Fish               1.50   0.00    0.00    0.00     1.50   0.00     0.00   0.00
1997/99            AEF Pallsons                 0.33    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.33    0.00     0.00   0.00
1995               AEF Tanbreed                 0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996               AEF Zainab Grain             0.76    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.76    0.00     0.00   0.00
2000               AEF Zan Safari                0.70    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.70   0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               DATEL                        0.00    0.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.48     0.00   0.00
1994               Eurafrican Bank              0.00    0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73     0.00   0.00
1996               IHP                          0.94    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.94    0.60     0.00   0.00
2000               IOH                           2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50   0.00     0.00    0.00
2000               NBC                           0.00   10.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   3.44     0.00    0.00
1993               TPS (Tanzania)               6.13    0.87     1.04   0.00    6.13    0.87     1.04    0.00
1991/97            TPS Zanzibar                 0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03     0.00    0.00
1994               Tanzania Brewery             0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Tanzania Jubilee             0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29     0.00    0.00
1994               ULC Leasing                  0.38    0.95    0.00    0.00    0.38    0.76     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       17.95   20.14     1.04    0.00   17.95   13.39     1.04   0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001               AEF 2000 Indust                 1.60      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              NBC                             30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1998              TTCL                             0.00     0.00     20.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:       31.60     0.00     20.00     0.00
- 83 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan      Low-
Tanzania     Africa  income      Development diamond'
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                      33.7      659      2,459                Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   270       480       420
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      9.1       313     1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                        2.6       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                       2.6       2.6       2.4     GNI                            Gross
per    I                       primary
Most recesnt estimate (11atest year available, 1994-00J                            aia>4                      erlmn
capita             /        enrotlment
Povertv (% of population below national poverty line)  51
Urban Dopulation (% of total population)              33        34        32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      45        47        59
Infant mortalitv (per 1, 0001lve births)              85        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5S            31         ..        ..          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)  54         55       76
Illiteracv (% of population a.qe 15+)                 24        38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-ase population)  67        78       96            -Tanzan,a
Male                                                67        85       102                  Low-income group
Female                                              66        71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                    4.3       8.8       9.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 ..     26.1      15.3      17.7                    Trade
Exports of qoods and services/GDP              ..    12.6      13.6      14.7
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                     ..     1.3       3.3       8.7
Gross national savinqs/GDP                     ..     5.9       2.9       8.6
Current account balance/GDP                    ..   -17.9     -12.3      -9.2     Domestic
Interest Davments/GDP                         ..      1.1       0.7       1.4                                Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..   151.2      91.9      78.7     savings
Total debt service/exports                  23.5     34.2      15.7      15.3
Present value of debt/GDP                     ..       ..      53.1      29.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..       ..     373.5     189.2
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00    1999       2000   2000-04
(average annual qrowih)
GDP                                   ..     2.9      3.6       5.1       6.2             T    Tanzania
GDP per capita                       ..      0.1      2.4       1.3       4.0                  Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services        ..      9.3     18.6      18.4       1 7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        2x
Aqriculture                                   ..     46.0      44.8      45.1      T..
Industrv                                      ..     17.7      15.4      15.8  a_
Manufacturing                               ..      9.3       7.4       7.5      0_
Services                                      ..     36.4      39.8      39.1    -x     9    6       97  98    99   ox
Private consumption                           ..     80.9      89.8      84.8 a  -20 
General qovernment consumption                ..     17.8       6.9       6 6              -G   DI        d   GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..     37.5      25.6      23.8
1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth ot exports and imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   ..      3.2       4.2       3.4     s-
Industrv                                              3.1       5.4       7.2    25
Manufacturing                               ..      2.7        3.8      4.6
Services                                       ..     2.7       5.4       5.8      .       29                   9
Private consumption                           ..      2.2       5.2      -0.9    25
General qovernment consumption                ..      2.5      -1.5       5.0   .5O
Gross domestic investment                     ..     -1.4      -1.5       7.5            -     E.ports    O-imports
imports of qoods and services                 ..      0.9       8.7       0.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 84 -



Tanzania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                       40
Consumer prices                             30.2     35.8       7.9      5.9 
ImOlicit GDP deflator                          ..    20.2      10.3      5.4    20
Government finance                                                               10
(% of GDP, includes current .rants)                                               0            I
Current revenue                                ..    11.4      10.6     10.7            95    95    97    98    99    00
Current budqet balance                         ..    -1.1       0.5     -0.5            -     GDP deflator  -  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..     -3.8      -3.3     -5.8
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ mnitions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..    352        541      600     2,000
Coffee                                       ..      85        77       84
Cotton                                       ..      75        28       38     no90*
Manufactures                                 ..      73        22       34
Total imPorts (cif)                           ..    1.297     1.631    1,592     1.000
Food                                         ..      59       200      176      s
Fuel and enerqv                                     174       104       95
Capital qoods                                ..     540       710      770        0
94   95  00    97   98   99   00
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      75        84        83
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      92        84        85                *E.ports     M Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..      82         99       98
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP I%)
EUSs miloons)
Exports of qoods and services                6    73 519      1,195     1,32 7 ,14
Imports of goods and services              1,221    1,557     2,244    2,146          _    _    _   1 l1 
Resource balance                            -548   -1.038    -1.049     -819       -*
Net income                                   -14 -186           -66      -43        "        I      'll
Net current transfers                         22     461        34        35
Current account balance                     -540     -764    -1.081     -827     20
Financing items (net)                        474     748      1,223    1,176
Chanqes in net reserves                       66       16      -143     -348     -30
Memo:
Reserves includinq gold (US$ millions)        ,,     124       776       950
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             8.2    195.1     744.8    800.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed       5.322    6.438     8.053    7.104
IBRD                                       198     243         16       11                 G:625  A 11
IDA                                        242    1.250     2.594    2.593             F. 86
Total debt service                           161      179       196      213                 A           b.
IBRD                                        20      44         8         6                                   B. 2,593
IDA                                          2      14        43        51
Composition of net resource flows
Official qrants                            485     677       737       763       E 2795
Official creditors                         219     208        177      111
Private creditors                           99       4        -13      -11
Foreign direct investment                    0       0        183      193                                c:324
Portfolio equity                             0       0          0        0                          D 670
World Bank program
Commitments                                109     537        159      272     A - IsRD                   E - Bilaterai
Disbursements                               69      187       199      142      B- IDA   D - Other multilateral  F - Prvate
Principal repayments                         5      32        30        37     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    64      155       169      105
Interest payments                           17      26        21        20
Net transfers                               47      129       148       85
Development Economics                                                                                             9/24/01
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 11
Environmental and Social Considerations
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
INTRODUCTION
The project has been classified as Category B with respect to its expected environmental and social
impacts. The project is not expected to result in significant negative environmental or social impacts. The
project will support the implementation of a series of participatory forestry management activities, which
government has endorsed in its National Forest Program, which are intended to bring about the proper
management of Government Forest Reserves, industrial plantations, forests on village lands, and
community and private forests. As part of this process, provisions will be made to bring about sound
forest management, and when required, the preservation of critical biodiversity habitats. In particular,
areas classified as catchment forest that are important for watershed protection and the Eastern Arc
Montane Forests will be targeted for priority protection and conservation.
Environmental risks are associated with well-known and documented forest management constraints -
encroachment into forest reserves, difficulties in implementing practical sustainable forest management
plans and sometimes ineffective traditional government forest management polices and regulatory
measures. Furthermore, the project will support Government initiatives more fully to involve the private
sector in the management in industrial forest plantations. Social and economic impacts will be assessed
for all plantation forests which are expected to be directly affected by this component of the project,
consultations will be undertaken with all stakeholders. Special attention will be directed at small
sawmillers to ensure they are adequately protected during project implementation. An additional benefit
of the involvement of the private sector is that the creation of an expanded investment climate could
introduce new sawmilling technologies including opportunities to use currently discarded mill waste.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
A national environmental regulatory and policy framework has been evolving during the last several
years. Currently, two independent agencies oversee environmental assessment and review processes, the
National Environment Management Council (NEMC), a semi-autonomous statutory body, and the
Division of the Environment (DOE) of the Vice-President's Office. The National Environmental Policy
(NEP) of 1997 provides guidance for environmental assessment procedures, including EIA requirements.
These provisions are primarily concerned with development projects and their potential impacts on the
biological and physical environment. However, it is important to point out that currently there is no
comprehensive legislation to implement the NEP policies and there is no empowerment of NEMC or of
DOE to make EIA requirements legally binding.
The national capacity for management and implementation of environmental assessment requirements is
still limited, particularly in light of the nearly complete lack of a regulatory framework. There are no
clearly defined institutional responsibilities for EIA review, approval and enforcement, and an EIA
regulatory framework is usually only introduced on an ad hoc basis in a few protected areas such in the
national parks, marine parks and game reserves. Unfortunately, there is no effective co-ordination and
collaboration among environmental and sector agencies, such as FBD, in this regard.
- 86 -



Policies and regulations with respect to                     Table AII.I: Objectives of draft Forest Legislation
environmental assessment related to forest and
biodiversity are based on the National Forest Policy       * encourage and facilitate the active citizen involvement
of 1998 and the National Forest Program of 2001.             in the sustainable planning, management, use and
There are plans toformalize a*   regulatory framework  conservation of forest resources through the
There are plans to formalize a regulatory framework         deeomn of .niiuladcomnt               hs
in proposed changes to forestry legislation. These
instruments will provide GOT with a comprehensive          . ensure ecosystem stability through conservation of
sector framework with the objective of bringing about        forest biodiversity, water catchments and soil fertility;
sustainable forest management and protection, and
which recognizes multiple uses and interests in these        resources to the lowest possible level of local
resources.                                                   management consistent with national policies;
Draft forest legislation, which describes the              . ensure the sustainable supply of forest products and
objectives and instruments for managing forest lands,        services by maintaining sufficient forest area under
outlines the need for a well defined and           efficient, effective and economical management;
outlines the need for a well defined and 
comprehensive forest management plan for each              . enhance the quality and improve the marketability of
forest reserve and private forest. Such management           forest products and regulate their export;
plans should include:
* promote coordination and cooperation between the
forest sector and other agencies and bodies in the
*   a description of the biological,                     public and private sectors;
environmental, economic, geological and
cultural resources of the forest, and an           . facilitate greater public awareness of the cultural,
inventory of resource uses;                         economic and social benefits of conserving and
invseentor                 *      .         .        increasing sustainable forest cover by developing
*   a statement of the economic, environmental           programs in training, research and public education;
and social objectives to be achieved in the          and
management of the forest;
*   a description of the surrounding areas and         a enable Tanzania to play a full part in contributing
villages and their interaction with the forest;      towards and benefiting from international efforts and
a c i f a s l wmeasures to protect and enhance global biodiversity.
* a description of the areas of land within the
forest reserve in which it is proposed to          Source: Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.
establish local user zones to facilitate local    Forest Bill (draft). 2001
communities obtaining benefits from the
forest reserve;
*   a description of the local communities residing in the vicinity of the forest and their relationship
to the forest, including their forest resource use;
*   in respect of forests other than village land forest reserves, an for the involvement of the
communities and management of the forest resources;
*   provisions regulating commercial forest exploitation including afforestation and reforestation;
*   provisions directed to forest conservation and preservation, including wild animals and wild
plants;
*   proposals for forest including a management plan; and
*   an identification of financial and human resources needed to implement the management plan
including forest use charges and fees between the various authorities and persons likely to be
involved in the management of the forest.
- 87 -



A key provision of the draft forestry
legislation addresses EIA requirements for any            Table AI].2: Classiication of Forests in
proposed development in forest reserves,                        draft Forest Legislation
private forests, or sensitive forest areas      Nationalforests
including watersheds. The law clarifies that all  *  forest reserves;
parties, persons, or organizations in the public  .  nature forest reserves;
or private sector, must prepare and submit to   .   forests on general land other than unoccupied or unused
the FBD Director an environmental impact            village land which are not reserved and of which the right of
assessment of the proposed development from         occupancy or a lease has not been granted to any person or
independent consultants selected from a list           y;
approved by GOT.                                Local authorityforests
*   local authority forest reserves;
The list of development activities subject to   .   forests on general land other than unoccupied or unused
environmental assessment includes:                  village land which are not reserved and of which the right of
occupancy or a lease or a license has been granted, to the
local authority;
*   commercial logging and forest
industry exceeding five hectares;        Village forests
* mining developments;                  .   village land forest reserves which are declared or gazetted;
' mining.developments;  .  community forest reserves created out of village forests;
*   road construction or the laying of      *   forests which are not reserved which are on village land and
pipelines;                                  of which the management is vested in the village assembly;
*   the construction of dams, power         Privateforests
stations, electrical or                 Piaeoet
.   forests on village land held by one or more individuals
telecommunication installations;            under a customary right of occupancy;
*   the construction of a building or group  a  forests on general or village land of which the right of
of buildings for purposes other than        occupancy or a lease has been granted to a person or persons
the management of a forest reserve on       or a partnership or a corporate body or a Non-Governmental
an area of land exceeding one hectare       Organization or any other body or organization.
or such area as may be prescribed; and
* agricultural, aquacultural or horticultural development on an area of land exceeding five hectares
or such area as may be prescribed.
LAND TENURE AND SOCIAL ISSUES
Comprehensive revisions to Tanzania's land legislation were recently enacted by Parliament, comprised
of the Land Act of 1999 and the Village Land Act of 1999. These laws define modern constructs of
customary land rights and if and how compensation is to proceed when land is expropriated. Tanzanian
legislation is emphatic in declaring that any person whose right of occupancy, recognized long-standing
occupation, or customary use of land is revoked or otherwise interfered with to their detriment by the
State is entitled to compensation as defined by full and fair pay. Furthermore, the Land Act sets out
detailed terms for compensation under the following considerations: market value of the real property,
disturbance allowance, transport allowance, loss of profits or accommodation, cost of acquiring or getting
the subject land, any other cost loss or capital expenditure incurred to the development of the subject land,
and interest at the market rate.
A significant portion of the Village Land Act details how people may secure their customary land rights.
The customary land right may be registered and titled to an individual, spouse, clan, group or to an entire
community. The process of adjudicating, registering and issuing title deeds over village land is devolved
to the community, and elected Village Councils become the Land Manager through an elected Land
Committee.
- 88 -



These modern forest and land laws provide the framework for the rights of citizens to create their own
reserves, to manage central and local Government reserves and to sustain customary and granted access
and use rights. Within this regulatory framework are specific rights and processes available to individuals
and/or groups affected by the declaration of national forest or local forest reserves for proper
compensation based on well-defined consultation and investigation procedures.
Other legislation provides for mitigating social and economic impacts which might be an outcome of the
loss of employment by current employees of FBD (a possible impact of involving the private sector in
management of industrial plantations). GOT has been engaged in numerous privatization procedures
during the past decade and has established transparent provisions for reducing the civil service work
force under such initiatives. The Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC), responsible for these
undertakings, has established norms for determining what will happen to the work force, how many and
what jobs would be redundant. At the same time, terms for retrenchment, separation and redeployment are
defined.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD ISSUES
The key safeguard issues which require evaluation in this project are summarized here. The applicable
safeguards are defined in OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP/GP 4.36 Forestry, OP/BP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement and OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats. This section summarizes the important
triggers and mechanisms in the project for achieving these policy objectives.
The adequacy of implementing institutions to address environmental management - OP/BP 4.01
Although the shortcomings of a national environmental management and regulatory framework have been
highlighted, the forest sector has a strong assortment of provisions to address virtually all potential
environmental concerns that which arise as a result of this project. These are specifically contained in the
relevant forest sector policy, national program and draft law. In aggregate, Tanzania's forest policy
framework is one of the most constructive and forward looking in Africa.
Financing commercial logging operations or the purchase of logging equipmentfor use in primary
tropical moistforests - OP/GP 4.36
The project will not be financing any commercial logging in natural forests. The project will be
supporting commercial operations only in plantation forests. These forests consist of eucalyptus, cypress,
pine and teak - most of which were established over the last 30 years. The current standing crop has a
history going back decades on land that was never covered by tropical moist forest, but was primarily
grassland. The sixteen plantation forest blocks covered by the project will continue to undertake
silvicultural practices including harvest and replanting. Participatory forest management plans will allow
for expansion of village and community based plantation woodlots, but only with management plans that
ensure protection of sensitive, biologically important and watershed catchments.
Use of a sector-wide approach forforest management - OP/GP 4.36
The National Forest Policy, National Forest Program, draft forestry legislation, and technical guidelines
all constitute essential components of a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector in Tanzania. All of
the Bank policy commitments have been addressed by GOT and include: adoption of policies and a legal
institutional framework for forest management; adoption of an appropriate forestry conservation and
development plan; use of social, economic and environmental assessments of commercial forests; setting
- 89 -



aside compensatory preservation forests; and establishment of institutional capacity to implement and
enforce these commitments.
Protection offorest areas that are considered critical natural habitats and preservation and sustainable
use offorests of high ecological value - OP/GP 4.36, OP/BP 4.04
The project proposes to support a number of activities within its three components that will adhere to
forest sector provisions for identification, protection and management of critical habitats. These include,
in particular, catchments and the Eastern Arc Montane Forests. Miombo woodlands, an important and
widely distributed and relatively abundant forest ecosystem, and will continue supplying woodfuel and
other forest supplies to adjacent communities. Unlike other more fragile forest types, miombo woodlands
are resilient to sustainable harvesting due to their regenerative capacity. Forest management plans to be
promoted by FBD will contribute to increasing the viability of these woodlands. The participatory forest
management approach advocated in the project also provides for local communities and forest users to
identify and manage, based on their own needs, ecologically important forest areas.
Stakeholder consultation including the private sector and local people in forest management - OP/GP
4.36
Provisions for stakeholder consultations are evident across the three project components. For National
Forests, Local Authority Forests, Village and Community Forests, and Private Forests, the basic premise
for future sustainable use is the development of forest management plans that are defined by a stakeholder
involved process. FCMP has specified particular provisions for ensuring that all stakeholders, from the
private sector to local people, are included in the development of forest management plans.
Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement as it applies in particular to encroachment in forest
reserves - OP/BP 4.12
MNRT has developed a set of detailed guidelines for community based forest management which define
methods for defining forest reserve boundaries, identifying encroachment problems, consulting with
offenders and establishing fines and provisions for getting such offenders off designated lands. The Land
Act also contains specifications for ensuring that peoples rights are duly respected and that in cases where
land appropriation is required, due compensation is provided. Measures for appeals and investigations are
also defined.
Lastly, the Government has reiterated that involuntary resettlement would not be carried out in
conjunction with any project implementation activity. Government has also agreed that in the unforeseen
event that involuntary resettlement becomes necessary in the course of project implementation, a detailed
resettlement plan (including any compensation for lost livelihood) would be completed and subject to
IDA review well in advance of any resettlement actions associated with any of the project components.
Other issues
The project will finance the construction of a new HQ building for FBD. The proposed construction site
is a parking area under the immediate control and use of the FBD at the so-called 'Ivory Rooms' facility.
No resettlement is envisaged as an outcome, though a bus stop will be relocated to an adjacent location to
allow access to the new building.
- 90 -



IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
Participatory forest management
A national strategy and program for participatory forest management has been developed which addresses
key safeguard issues. These measures constitute a comprehensive approach to sustainable forest
management and multiple resource use, including preservation of critical forest and special biologically
important areas. The emphasis in recent GOT policy and legislation is that central ministry control is no
longer the only administrative process. Government decentralization has continued over the years to the
extent that local participation in management and administration of forest resources is a principal
objective. Overall, the essential ingredients of participatory forest management in Tanzania are that it:
*  reflects priorities within the sector for community based forest management;
*  balances the need for protection, resource extraction and sustainable use;
*  acknowledges that specific forest uses requires stakeholder inputs;
*  identifies critical forest habitats requiring strict protection;
*  provide for the community and other stakeholders to undertake that protection;
* makes provisions for national and local management;
* allows for joint forest management between government and local communities in certain cases.
The project will support the enabling framework for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves under
the management of local Village Councils (as well as other private and community forest constructs as
defined in policy).
Simply because of their much greater extent, these Reserves will be established primarily in miombo
woodlands. Miombo is characterized by (among other things) its rapid regenerative capacity, and low
biodiversity. Miombo tends to be found in relatively flat areas, and virtually all miombo in Tanzania has
been heavily modified by human use. The literature suggests that the extensive areas which are now
miombo, in central Tanzania, were under cultivation 150 years ago, prior to the Ngoni invasions. Much
miombo which was cleared during the establishment of Ujamaa villages in the 1960s is has been rapidly
regenerating, and accounts for significant new areas of woodland. The establishment of VFRs in miombo
woodland areas is unlikely to pose any significant environmental risk, or any risks which cannot be
mitigated through natural regeneration.
The establishment of VFRs in forests of more significant ecological important is consistent with the GEF
Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation, and specifically with the objectives of GEF
Operational Programs 3 and 4 on Forest Ecosystems and Mountain Ecosystems. Consistent with these
objectives, the project will provide finance for the creation and strengthening of participatory and co-
management schemes to build support and ownership for biodiversity conservation, develop socio-
economic activities to reconcile biodiversity conservation with human needs, identify processes which are
likely to have significant adverse impacts on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and
support capacity building efforts while focusing primarily on a mountain tropical forest ecosystem that is
at risk.
Government's Guidelines for the establishment of VFRs emphasize the need to raise awareness at the
local level about the potential for multiple resource use, provide guidance for the identification of specific
management use zones, recommend the development of a protection process when it is required, clarify
that VFRs will have legal status, and also outline conflict resolution procedures. Establishment of VFRs
is a decision taken by the village, and social impacts are determined by the village, and compensated
within the framework of the village's operation. Government is responsible for providing technical
support for resource use zoning and mapping, and for providing a generic safeguards checklist for all new
-91-



forest reserve areas - Village Forest Reserve, Community Forest Reserve, Village Forest management
Area- which are thought to contain critical ecosystems. The project will provide specific support for
implementation of all of these measures.
Involvement of the private sector in industrial plantation management
The large forests of Tanzania include natural forests and plantations which cover only a fraction of the
total forest area of 33.6 million hectares. The total area of forest plantations is relatively small and
comprises both state-managed industrial plantations and village, farm and private company plantations.
State plantations are distributed within 16 plantation areas. Sao Hill is the most important plantation area,
followed by Meru/Usa, North Kilimanjaro and West Kilimanjaro plantations. These four plantation areas
cover altogether more than 80 percent of the growing stock in state-managed plantations. Sao Hill alone
covers about 50 percent of the total state plantation area.
Many individual forest plantations under state control were established without clear management
objectives. In the early 20th century and later in the 1950s trees were planted mainly to provide long term
timber supply, to act as buffer zones for natural forests and to protect watersheds. Plantations were
established for industrial purposes in the 1950s and 1960s but only on a small scale and without linking
management to the development of forest industries. Larger scale industrial plantation development
started only in the mid-1970s when the Sao Hill plantations were greatly expanded to provide raw
material for the proposed paper mill at Mufindi.
Farmer and community tree planting has taken place throughout the country but particularly in Central
and West Tanzania e.g. in Njombe and Mufindi districts. Forest plantation by the private sector is a
relatively new development in the country with several operations initiated in the 1990s by the
Commonwealth Development Corporation and more recently by private Norwegian investors. Specific
measures that address safeguard concerns are highlighted below.
Table A.11.3: Elements of the EL4 Process for Plantations in  ELAfor designatedplantations
Environmentally Important Habitats
Objective:                                          The project proposes to support the
*   Ensure that environmental issues are considered as part of  involvement of the private sector in industrial
plantation management plan.                      plantation management through three pilot
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are reduced or  schemes (private management of a selected
minimized.                                      industrial plantation, co-management of an
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders     industrial plantation which brings an industrial
Actions:                                             plantation with multiple stakeholders under
*   Review the current biophysical status of the plantation.  commercial management, community-based
*   Assess the potential environmental impact to critical or  plantation management for areas which cannot
sensitive habitats associated with the management plan.  be managed commercially either by private
*   Identify mitigation or protection measures,      companies or by the state but which have
Party Responsible for Mitigation:                    potential to provide benefits to communities.)
*   Leaseholder                                      Pilot areas are to be identified during the early
*   TFS with Technical Support from regional Catchment and  stages of project implementation.
Forestry Officers
Verification:                                       Proposed pilot areas will be inventories and
*   Environmental Assessment Statement/Report        map. The result will be the demarcation and
*   Environmental audit/inspection by TFS            establishment of plantation boundaries,
including identification and mapping of areas
to be excluded from cutting such as critical watersheds and areas containing important natural habitats. A
- 92 -



standard assessment and documentation process will be developed to accomplish this objective. When
appropriate, mitigation or protection measures will be identified and implemented.
Socio-economic studies
There has been some concern that the involvement of the private sector will have serious economic
impacts on small sawmillers and on plantation-adjacent communities. The sawmilling industry is an
important source of employment and revenue generation for local communities. Wood products are sold
for building material, poles and other associated enterprises such as furniture making. Each pilot
plantation will develop general socio-economic information to portray the social, economic and social
service instruments within surrounding communities. The information to be collected will include:
*  Community/village profiles that include population statistics, demographics, overview of labor
force, employment opportunities and services;
*  a description of each small to medium sawmill including equipment, labor force, daily volume of
production, sources of wood supply, clients and or end product markets;
*  a summary of sawmill operator issues regarding supply and /or production problems,
opportunities and potential solutions; and
*  an overview of economic situation in each community.
The information will be incorporated into any social impact mitigation plans, as relevant, for individual
plantation areas posed for PSI.
Stakeholder participation in plantation management
The project will support the adoption of participatory plantation management. This will require an
acceptance of certain responsibilities and changes in the roles of the various stakeholders in forest
management. The village, the state, and the private sector will have to cooperate and work with each other
if participatory or joint forest management is to succeed. The following actions will be undertaken to
facilitate success:
*  clarify through contractual arrangement as appropriate the respective roles of communities, state
and industry in forest management and protection;
*  establish mechanisms to ensure that the expectations of respective partners regarding plantation
management is understood by everyone;
*  strengthen the organizational and technical capacity of villagers in resource management;
*  integrate plantation management related activities with other village land uses and development
activities;
*  recognize traditional/customary rights and possible claims to land based on traditional village
boundaries (if such situations exist);
*  develop local conflict resolution mechanisms for situations requiring consideration of different
stakeholder objectives.
Encroachment in plantation or other reservedforest areas and
issues with respect to involuntary resettlement
Government has established several mechanisms to reduce the problem of encroachment in reserved
forest lands, including boundary demarcation, patrols, voluntary resettlement and the implementation of
benefit sharing schemes for communities living in buffer zones around the forests. Many of these
measures have also been applied to plantation forests as well. However, a shift to having non-forest
- 93 -



Department staff involved in some of these sensitive matters will require establishing good lines of
communication between the plantation operators and local community stakeholders.
The Government has confirmed that involuntary resettlement will not be carried out in conjunction with
any activity in this project, and such policy is expected to be applied in the plantation forest lands. Many
of the plantation forests have individuals living on the border, and at times, within the forest who as
Forest Department employees serve as forest guards. Each plantation management plan will identify such
individuals and indicate how these persons will be effected during the privatization process.
Production waste management
An issue related to the development of industrial operations around plantation areas which could benefit
from project activities relates to the accumulation of commercial wood-based wastes. It is common
practice in many sawmill operations to dump and/or burn these byproducts, resulting in deleterious
environmental impacts and inefficient use of woody biomass. Use of this biomass for alternative products
such as blocks, fuel and or other products is uncommon. Several operators expressed the desire for
technical assistance to help identify viable alternatives to these practices, and looked to the project for
providing possible solutions from experts outside the country.
Eastern Arc Conservation and Management: catchment forests and critical and sensitive habitats
Specific activities will be undertaken, with GEF support, within the Uluguru mountains which are both
"catchment forests" as defined by recent legislation and high mountain forests of unique biodiversity
value. As such, this component of the project will have the challenge of applying the new GOT joint
forest management policy, which recognizes the involvement of local communities or NGOs in the
management and conservation of forests and forest lands. The project will strive to meet the needs of
different stakeholder groups in this region through a combination of initiatives that will ensure protection
of the Catchment Forest Reserves, especially those areas with high biodiversity and hydrological values.
It is anticipated that some degree of resource use will occur but that this will be balanced with
conservation and protection.
Other issues
MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
An outline safeguard monitoring plan has been developed to ensure that safeguard provisions are
adequately implemented and sustained. The monitoring program will be further developed, and will
indicate how well each of the components is implementing the key provisions defined previously. The
monitoring plan will define indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of measurements,
detection limits, and monitoring responsibilities. The plan will be implemented within the overall context
of institutional reforms in the Forest and Beekeeping Department. The plan will include a description of
how reviews of selected issues of concern will be undertaken. A simple and pragmatic collection of
monitoring indicators is provided below.
The safeguard indicators and monitoring plan will be incorporated into the overall project monitoring
plan as described in the PAD. Consequently, the MNRT will be the ultimate GOT information focal
point. The Bank will include in the project supervision plan the participation of an environmental
specialist in selected missions, the Mid-Term Review and in the Implementation Completion Report. This
specialist will review progress in implementation of the project safeguard provisions.
- 94 -



Table A11.4: Monitoring Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguards
Componentl     Safeguard Issue    Monitoring Indicator  Responsibility  Frequency
Sub-                                                   for Monitoring
component                                              and Mitigation
Institutional  * Encroachment     * Community          FBD            Annual survey/report
reform:         problems in        complaints to FBD
Participatory   specific forests  * Claims filed against
Forest         * Resource use and  FBD
Management      extraction without  * Legal actions against
stakeholder        citizens by FBD
consensus
Involvement    * FBD employees    * Grievances filed   FBD monitors   Annual survey
of the private  not provided       against FDB or mill  performance of
sector in       adequate           owner               private sector  Parastatal Sector
industrial      compensation      * Mill closures, worker  partners   Reform Commission
plantation     * Small mill        layoffs, sale of                    Reports
management      operators          operations
experience        * Management plans                  Socio-economic
economic           completed and                      survey and
downturn           reviewed                           privatization reports
* No logging of high                                    for pilot plantations
forests
Conservation   * Modification or  * Number of          FBD and NGO    Catchment Forestry
and             deforestation of   unauthorized        partners       Project Reports
Management      critical habitats  incursions into
of the Eastern                     protected forest zones             Uluguru Mountains
Arc Mountain                      * Forest change as                   Biodiversity
forests                            detected through                    Conservation Project
aerial photography or              Reports
other remote sensing
- 95 -






MAP SECTION






A       U G A N-DA 
/         '                           I'5 \. 
./?  RWANDA  .'}   .  (0  /    '     MAFEA   >'\    A         K  E  N   Y  A                                MAIN INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION AREAS
A RWANDA   I   -MARA                       K'                         N Y    
N :  *   /   _  > -\ >              '                 i l  CLOSED WOODLANDS, OPEN WOODLANDS
s ; _ , r P t * r -'  -I~ - -f s | AND                                                                NATURAL FORESTS
S     *._^                                      l A S_  t ,\s_,i >  )   ;;'. KILIMANJAROt   N KILIMANJARO   EASTERN ARC MOUNTAINS
BURUNDI  a  '           .     . - t-RE.fN6A I   M Rt    *..L I
j; UiDU D g'It |-,                                     r     ;h 7 ,, 4  -  a,rt 
,5            VE.!40:       .   -i        '   '. ,r,,      *'  ,1 . 
.'  '   J  fflE:OM L.  ^ _  7   |     -             AAIIN.                                               a  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
I                                                       Q .G,-  .   !  --  -   I  Dl-:ll  ,  .  ,  ,,"  C  r/NGUZA  REGION CAPITALS
-:9, 'l       I   J  ;.!;' *' 'l' -. - ; .G I  /                 j  . -'' ETu                    *l ti;; t NATIONAL CAPITAL
o               '.   -        b..A                                1140F' 4  .1 fOJ '  . 'lordl Gh;.Iljf
* 0                                                       ' ;  ..4 '                                      - - - -  REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
f? Z   f                               -   :NLt. i. ~ DODOBtA  '-              ' ."' L                      _,_. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
*0     ;. :dI -                        I           -O D                      I         C'   I
L U                                                         P.  .  I  IB0     .O    I  I
o        '- .          ptP8llL.#L '- f                '             I                  .F ,, . - .,LP tS S-LUL.\ This map weasprodao ytyhaMapDes iTTdhoy  odtt  WoldBkankhtbW
N5    ~~PL'1KR'A      '.                                         44  i.OLA                   The ha-d-ri-ea , raaadnnioasad any other W -in-nata  hAo
. T      '  |   .-  .  _,-! b  . _  /          c;  , ,  L'E S  SA LA S     an thiscap da oar Iy., E  on th e par. of The World Bank G-p. any
r;   *-                   -                              'COAUl/,   :  .        | | AR^N2EPI/il \     \           /
t                       1.~~~~~~~~~~~~-  Ee a.c  , .  a         tIr!  -~ ..  otl.                 C                   J CIiBC
TANZANIA .. ,                          _                          b0.     .      lt ;wD11:1-, i ' DEM .   Rtz rEd CHADJ\
SAO HilON                N     ' -                         r    ,. IIJD A N\  I: HIF
MANAGEMENT PROJECT  '.Efi    "       -'  "-            ~ ";; esrv';'sp~CENTRAL 
FOREST ANDWOOLAD CVE   p,3, RUEIbAPRICAN REP \_6o 
I                                   -.~~~A1-I  i
Z A M B I A                                                                                SO | oa  .  %cco9  I  *M  C'-'  .- 1
TANZA-NI.A'                                  .   DEM. REF  B.,Li'aCn,,
In-AR.          OF COk-0    TAZNI         ID4
FOREST CONSERVATION AND                                                                                    TANZA...''--..N- '"A.  'E APJ
MANAGEMENT PROJECT*:E                            LL'I.I .fRa
FOREST AND WOODLAND COVER                Q-'.;'LJALoI
I  100  200   ~~300  400 KILOMETERS                                                  ANGOLA
~~      MOZAMBIQUE-iI                                    I-:-CR .:c::
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _  _  _  _   ~~~~~~~~~~~-1-  6'



