Page  1
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND TOURISM 
FORESTRY AND BEEKEEPING DIVISION 
 
TANZANIA FOREST CONSERVATION  
AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT (TFCMP) 
IDA CREDIT 3604-TA 
 
DEREMA FOREST CORRIDOR:  
EAST USAMBARA MOUNTAINS 
 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN  
FOR FARM PLOTS DISPLACED  
FOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION 
IN THE DEREMA FOREST CORRIDOR 
 
PREPARED FOR CONSIDERATION OF COMPENSATION FUNDING 
BY THE WORLD BANK 
 
September 2006 
RP559 
Page  2
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 2 of 55 
 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN FOR FARM PLOTS DISPLACED  
FOR BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION 
IN THE DEREMA FOREST CORRIDOR 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
Introduction:  The 
Setting………………………………………………………………………… 4 
The 
Project………………………………………………………………………………………….
.
7
Project Impacts 
11 
Minimizing impacts 
12 
Affected 
People……………………………………………………………………………........... 13  
Socioeconomic studies 
13 
The mountains’ people 
13 
Legal framework………………………………………………………………………….... 
……. 15 
 
Tanzanian law 
15 
Evaluation methods 
15 
World Bank policy on takings, and a comparison with Tanzanian law
 
16
Bringing the Eastern Arc under World Bank policy………………………………………..17 
Displacement from the 
Corridor……………………………………………..………………… 18 
Tanzanian institutional responsibility 
18 
Eligibility for compensation 
18 
Valuation and compensation for losses:  the 2002 exercise 
19 
Valuation and compensation for losses:  World Bank (OP 4.12) requirements for crop 
and tree losses 
20 
A
revised calculation based on World Bank norms 
21 
Income restoration measures 
22 
Land 
allocation……………………………………………………………………………............ 24 
 
Organizational 
Responsibilities………………………………………………………………... 26 
Community 
participation………………………………………………………………………… 28 
Grievance redress 
mechanisms……………………………………………………………….. 29 
 
Page  3
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 3 of 55 
RAP Monitoring and 
Evaluation………………………………………………………………… 31 
Implementation 
Schedule……………………………………………………………………….. 32 
Budget for RAP 
implementation……………………………………………………………….. 33 
 
Page  4
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 4 of 55 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS  (cont’d) 
 
List of Tables 
 
Table 1:   Derema Corridor:  Village Populations, Affected Farmers,  
 
Plots Taken …………………………………………………………..  12 
Table 2:   Interest Rates and Inflation:  2002-2006  Tanzania ……………….  21 
Table 3:   Total Revised Compensation Due by End 2006  
 
for All Crops Inventoried, by Village  (T Sh)…………………………  
 22 
Table 4:  Sources of Funds for RAP preparation, implementation…………..  33 
Table 5:  RAP Implementation Budget…………………………………………….  
 34 
 
Figure: 
Figure 1:  Actions to Enable Land Acquisition in the Lowlands for  
 Derema 
Farmers………………………………………….……………… 
 
 27 
Figure 2:  Implementation Schedule for RAP…………………………………….  
 32 
 
List of Annexes: 
 
Annex 1a:  Detailed Revenue Analysis Per Cluster or Crop ……..…………..  35 
 
Annex 1b:  Derema Revenue Yield Matrix:  Valuation for Compensation, 
 
Standing Crops……………………………………………………. 
45 
 
Annex 2:   Total Revised Compensation Due for All Crops, by Village……..  46 
 Annex 
3:
 
Sample Inventories of Crops (from Proper Consult Study)……..   47 
 
Annex 4:   List of Persons Contacted…………………………………………….. 48 
 
Annex 5:   Itinerary of Consultancy……………………………………………….  
49 
 
Annex 6:   Letter Assigning Plantations to be used for Muheza farmers….. 
50
 
Annex 7:   Letter Setting Out Terms for Facilitating Land Allocation to  
 
Villagers from Amani Nature Reserve Area………………………….55 
 
Annex 8:   Letter to Lowland Villages, Providing Lists of Amani Area  
 
Residents Seeking Ex-plantation Land Allocation………………… 57 
 
Map 
 
Map 1:  Amani Nature Reserve, Derema Corridor,  
and the Five Affected Adjacent Villages  …………..………………….  6 
 
Page  5
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 5 of 55 
 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN  
FOR FARMS DISPLACED BY ACTIONS  
TO PROTECT AND GAZETTE THE CORRIDOR 
 
Introduction:  The Setting
1. 
The East Usambara Mountains are part of the Eastern Arc of isolated mountain 
blocks located southeast and then southward from Mt. Kilimanjaro in northern Tanzania.  
Since the late 1980s, the Tanzanian Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism has moved to 
protect and conserve the Eastern Arc Mountains because of their high biodiversity values, 
their value of their rainforest microclimates as sources of high value agricultural products, 
and their potential to add to Tanzania
’s ecotourism resources. 
2. 
The East Usambaras were for many decades the subjects of changing vision and 
policy.  Successive periods saw exploitation of the mountainsides for coffee, timber, and tea; 
gazetting in small blocks as national forest reserves; and the encouragement of local residents 
to develop specialized livelihoods based on the special characteristics of their climate and 
ecology. 
3. 
The current period of commitment to conservation has seen continuous effort to 
reconfirm gazetted forest boundaries, add new forests to those already protected, and upgrade 
the scientific management of biodiversity resources within the forests.  Through support from 
the Government of Finland from the 1980s and supplementary efforts from many 
international and Tanzanian environmental organizations, the East Usambaras are emerging 
as one of the most highly regarded natural treasures of the country.  They have a higher ratio 
In northeast Tanzania 1128 farmers living on the steep slopes of the Eastern Usambara 
Mountains were told in mid-
2002 that the crops in their small fields within the forests 
outside their villages would have to be eliminated in orde
r
to conserve the forests.  The 
new “Derema Corridor” would provide a link between two protected forest reserves, and 
continuity of the habitat for hundreds of bird, reptile, insect and plant species that are rare 
and in some cases threatened with extincti
on.  The villagers were given compensation for 
the crops in a three-
meter boundary strip around the corridor that was demarcated by 
slashing the existing vegetation.  Their crops inside the boundaries –
high value 
cardamom, cinnamon, cloves and black pepper, along with some fruit trees --
were 
counted and inventoried for later compensation.   
Farmers stopped tending their crops.  The budget available to pay out the compensation, 
however, was far less than was needed.  By 2004 Tanzanian authorities asked the
World 
Bank to help finance a substantial portion of the compensation mo
ney.  Finally in 2006, 
the government decided to make a formal request to reallocate money within a Bank-
supported forestry project to provide the balance of the compensation funds needed. 
 
This Resettlement Action Plan provides the full details of the cas
e, and is the 
documentary basis for decision
-
making by the Bank.  The case turns out to be more 
Page  6
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 6 of 55 
of endemic plant and animal species per area than any other site in the world.  Designated by 
the Man and the Biosphere Program as an area to be highly protected, and then supported 
further in the early years of the current decade by the Global Environment Fund (GEF), the 
East Usambaras are a core focus area of the wider Eastern Arc program.  The Amani Nature 
Reserve (ANR), created in 1997 after long planning, is the centerpiece of conservation effort.  
At 8329 hectares (including a tract of land belonging to a neighboring tea plantation and 
covenanted to ANR for preservation), ANR is the largest forest zone under unified 
management in the Eastern Arc, and its dedication as a nature reserve (the first in the 
country) gives it a special mission in national conservation commitments.   
4. 
A
key part of conservation planning for the East Usambaras is the gradual linking 
together of some twenty-four separate forest reserves in the mountains and the adjacent 
lowlands, covering 32,352 hectares in all.  ANR already includes six of these prior Forest 
Reserves, 7265 hectares or 22 percent of the total area.  That these forested areas are separate 
reserves is a reflection of the fragmentation of the earlier continuous forest belt which 
covered the mountains.  Continuity is broken by belts of population along the valleys and 
mountain roads, and areas carved out and planted to tea and commercial forest.  In turn, the 
increased fragmentation of the forests leads to biodiversity loss.  This is not just a 
proportional reduction in numbers of animals or plants from the spaces lost, but a reduction 
in the biodiversity itself, in the number of different species present in the forest, according to 
both ecological theory and the observations of long-term scientific observers in these forests.  
In time, continuing pressure on,
1
and loss of, species could radically disturb the ecological 
balance in this limited bio-region.  The long-term program to reconstitute as much 
continuous forest as possible is thus directly linked to biodiversity preservation. 
5. 
The first additional link to be done is the Derema corridor.  At 790 hectares, it will 
preserve forest cover that has been steadily diminished, between ANR and the next gazetted 
forest to the north, Longuza (north).  Derema is almost all forested, 60 percent of it on steep 
hills and the rest in the lowland slopes below 850 m altitude.  Together, Derema and Longuza 
add 2643 hectares to ANR, expanding the area under continuous forest by over one-third. 
6. 
Derema is currently not a gazetted national forest reserve, but the ungazetted 
property (“public forest reserve”) of the five villages around its edges (see map next page).   
Almost all (86 percent) of it is classified
2
as being in “cultivation under forest” status by an 
earlier researcher, K. Hyyti
ä
inen.  The status means that the forest cover has been preserved, 
but that the imperfect aerial photography available at the time showed at least scattered 
cultivation of crops under the canopy.  It does not mean that the whole understory of the 
forest is filled with crops, and indeed the tree and perennial plantings within the forest were 
scattered through it, though concentrated near the subvillages (small hamlets) just outside the 
forest areas (areas of habitation were not included in the forest counts).  The Derema forest 
1
The Eastern Arc is home to 35 endemic vertebrates (known nowhere outside these mountains), and 
to 42 other species found in the Arc and a few nearby areas.  The East Usambaras are home to 4 
endemic vertebrates, and notably to the wild “African violet” (
Saintpaulia spp
.), the origin of so many 
potted varieties popular as house plants.   
2
This and other data here on the names and sizes of reserves and their forest cover come from Stig 
Johansson and Richard Sandy, Protected Areas and Public Lands:  Land Use in the East Usambara 
Mountains
,
Technical Paper 28 of the East Usambara Catchment Forest Project, Forestry and 
Beekeeping Division and Finnish Forest and Park Service and National Soil Service, Dar es Salaam 
and Vantaa, 1996.  Areas and percentages are best estimates from mapping exercises in the early 
1990s; there are few definitive recent surveys. 
Page  7
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 7 of 55 
was and is the “back yard” of the villages, from which firewood and other non-timber forest 
products have been extracted. 
Page  8
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 8 of 55 
MAP 1.  AMANI NATURE RESERVE, DEREMA CORRIDOR,  
AND THE FIVE AFFECTED ADJACENT VILLAGES 
 
1
=
KISIWANI   2 = MSASA IBC   3 = KWEZITU   4= KWEMDIMU   5 = KAMBAI 
 
Page  9
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 9 of 55 
 
7. 
It is important to understand that the living conditions for the people of the 
Usambaras have been strongly conditioned and frequently reordered by policy decisions 
made outside the local lives of the villages.  The German period, from the 1890s to the First 
World War, saw the heavy exploitation of the Usambara forests, with strong restrictions 
against local peoples’ access to forest resources.  Large tracts of land were taken for coffee 
production.  Later these lands were changed to tea production at the higher altitudes and sisal 
plantations in the lowlands.  A railway from Tanga to the Usambaras provided the means to 
evacuate the timber, and clear-cutting led early to the fragmentation of the remaining forests.  
Both the deforestation and later replanting provided labor opportunities, and outsiders came 
into the lands of the indigenous Shambaa (or Shambara, from which Usambara, the place of 
the Shambaa, takes its name) in the mountains and to the lowland areas around the mountains 
where the related Bondei lived.  The conversion of timber and coffee areas to tea provided 
hundreds of labor opportunities in the mountains, though the Shambaa were apparently never 
very keen to take up these low-paying jobs.  Both the timber trade and the later attempts to 
save the forest remnants led to displacement of villagers or restrictions on access to the 
forest, for which there was rarely any compensation.  Tanzania’s villagization program from 
the late 1960s regrouped housing, while the steep decline of the industry from the late 1960s 
(exports would drop by 90 percent, from 200,000 tons per year to less than 20,000 tons) 
drained wage labor opportunities from the whole area. A botanical garden and nursery 
founded originally by the Germans in 1902 for the reforestation efforts led, by the 1980s, to 
government encouragement of high-value spices and their rapid spread into the forests.  
Cardamom, the most valuable, grows well only in the moist and shaded conditions of the 
forest.  Black pepper vines climb existing shade trees, while clove trees grow in either village 
or forest settings.  Cinnamon is largely a village tree.  From the 1970s, these four valuable 
spices (cloves were illegal to take from Zanzibar island, but began to be planted anyway) 
gave new impetus to household incomes in the East Usambaras.  As environmental 
conservation issues grew more important during the 1990s, the forests, and the villages, were 
again the subject of policy shift, as regeneration of indigenous forest biodiversity became the 
watchword of government commitments in the area.  Finally, in the early 2000s, Tanzania’s 
overall urbanization, the reawakening of sisal as a provider of natural fiber (and bio-fuel), 
and the growing value of the adjacent lowlands for new fruit, nut and food crop farming are 
all providing fresh incentives for Usambara families, this time to think about re-centering 
their economic activity away from the mountains.  In short, village families have been 
subject to a history of changing fundamental conditions for their making a living, and have 
come to realize that every twenty years or so some new economic or policy shift requires 
them to reevaluate their livelihood strategies.  The demand that farmers give up their 
lucrative spice crops in forest plots is just the latest of these shifting foundations. 
 
The Project
8. 
The Tanzania Forest Conservation and Management Project was approved in 
February 2002 as a successor to an earlier forest sector project supported by IDA, and 
became effective in May 2002.  The blended GEF Eastern Arc Forests Conservation and 
Page  10
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 10 of 55 
Management Project was approved in July 2003 and became effective in May 2005.  The 
global objectives of the two projects are to: 
(i) 
strengthen Tanzania's capacity to coordinate and lead forest biodiversity conservation interventions,  
(ii) support an integrated community-based pilot intervention in a priority conservation area to achieve 
sustainable impact related to both biodiversity and human development,  
(iii) improve the institutional mechanisms and capacity to undertake forest biodiversity conservation, and  
(iv) 
develop and implement, on a pilot basis, a sustainable financing mechanism for conservation activities 
in the Eastern Arc forests.
 
9. 
There is no activity in the two Bank-supported projects that invests directly in the 
protection and expansion of the Amani Nature Reserve, nor more broadly in physical 
interventions in the Usambaras.  The wider IDA Forestry Project has activities that support 
the establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service and improve forest and woodland 
management capacity; strengthen support for the reformed management of industrial 
woodland plantations; and support the elaboration of sustainable management and financial 
strategies for conservation of the Eastern Arc.  There is no direct investment in forests.  The 
Eastern Arc project, financed by the GEF through the Bank, supports institutional reforms for 
forest biodiversity conservation, and assists in establishing an Eastern Arc Mountains 
Conservation Endowment Fund with start-up funding of $7 million.  Related activities in a 
UNDP-executed GEF project contribute to an integrated Conservation Strategy for the 
Eastern Arc Mountain Forests and to forest conservation interventions with communities in 
the Uluguru Mountains south of the Usambaras.   Other donors support forest guards in the 
East Usambaras and income diversification/livelihood activities in mountain villages, but 
none has been directly supporting the enlargement of the ANR since Finnish (DIDC) 
assistance to the East Usambaras ended in 2003.   
10. 
It was under the three-phase Finnish-supported East Usambaras Catchment Forestry 
Project (EUCFP, later the East Usambaras Catchment Management Project, EUCAMP) that 
planning for the expansion of conservation was done.  Researchers and forest managers 
together developed the inventories, mapping and some of the scientific basis for the concept 
of reserving ecological corridors to link the reserves and therefore enlarge the areas under 
continuous protection.  EUCAMP also provided the resources to do the demarcation and 
slashing of the Derema boundaries and the evaluation of the crops to be eliminated from 
within the corridor. 
11. 
To understand the current problems of the compensation process for the crops in the 
Derema corridor, it is necessary to look back at the process by which compensation was paid 
for the crops slashed when the boundary of the corridor was established on the ground.  
Under Finnish support of EUCAMP, no international standards for compensation were used, 
despite Finland’s adherence to OECD guidelines on resettlement and compensation which 
have been in effect since 1991. Instead, Tanzanian law would be used.   
12. 
In early 2001, based on plans approved within EUCAMP, the boundaries for the 
Derema Corridor were surveyed.  The surveyed boundary was 27.226 kilometers, and the 
area within was 956.34 hectares. In September the crops within a three meter-wide strip 
demarcating the boundary were counted and slashed.  Of the individual crops (all spice and 
fruit trees) in the 8.1 hectares slashed, 92.5 percent were cardamom plants, and 6.5 percent 
were bananas.  Almost immediately a problem developed with the method of calculating 
compensation due to the affected farmers.  Until the new Land Act was passed in 1999, the 
Page  11
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 11 of 55 
method for payment was based on the Land Acquisition Act of 1967 and periodic updates of 
a
schedule of crop values, the latest of which was in 1997/98. Simple arithmetic provided a 
crop loss evaluation, and for the perimeter crops a supplementary amount was added to the 
1998 crop schedule to get the boundary settled.   The new Land Act, and the Village Land 
Act and Village Land Regulations, however, prescribed a more complicated new method of 
evaluation of losses, and on October 15 the project was formally advised by the PS of the 
Ministry of Lands that the “Annual income per crop approach” set out in the new land act 
would have to be used for the Derema instead of the old Crop Schedule approach.  The new 
method was then used, and by November 7 the new method determined that instead of the 
9.31 million Tanzanian shillings cost of compensation expected for the boundary slashing 
under the old method, the total would come to 138 million TSh, later revised to 113.77 
million TSh, over a 12-fold increase. The use of the new law had not been foreseen, and the 
new method clearly introduced confusion and delay into the process:  most importantly, the 
huge difference in the values that the law would produce were a surprise to all concerned, 
and negotiations to fix a total administratively (the Ministry of Lands had proposed a total of 
not more than 50 million TSh in November 2001) failed in the light of EUCAMP’s decision 
to follow out the full implications of the new law.  It was not until the end of March, 2002, 
that the payments were finally made to the 172 boundary crop farmers, from EUCAMP’s 
budget.    
13. 
Even then, EUCAMP advisers misunderstood the implications of the arithmetic.  In 
anticipation of the evaluation of the “corridor” crops (those within the boundaries), they 
estimated “conservatively” that if 127 farmers got 113 million TSh for the boundary 
demarcation, then compensating 1090 farmers within the boundaries at the same per capita 
cost might require a budget of 800 million TSh.  This informal arithmetic neglected the 
obvious fact that the difference in the area cropped would also matter enormously, and the 
difference was 8.1 hectares in the boundary to 956 hectares within them.   Not nearly all of it 
was cropped, but much more than a three-meter corridor was. 
14. 
On the ground, the farmers saw the central lesson more simply and more 
completely, and they still repeat it.  In the full evaluation for the boundary crops using the 
new law, each cardamom plant had been valued at 28,800 TSh, on the principle that that was 
the value of three years’ lost production until new plants could be developed to maturity at 
new sites. That would mean a huge cash bonanza for farmers within the corridor, and some 
of them, the number and precise actions of whom are impossible to determine at this point, 
set out immediately to plant new cuttings of cardamom and other plants before the evaluation 
of the crops inside the corridor began.  The stage was set for the evaluation of crops within 
the corridor boundaries. 
15. 
Methods for inventorying and evaluation of the crops within the corridor were at 
least clear.  The new law would be used; the same firm of professional evaluators who had 
carried out the boundary evaluations would be used, after competitive bidding had led to 
their re-selection.  The counting of crops would be done in May and June 2002, and a report 
with the full evaluation was to be readied by the end of June.  The fieldwork was duly done, 
and then in turn the following key events transpired:   
A
third and “final” draft report on the “corridor crops” was submitted by the 
consultants on August 8, 2002, with total compensation calculated at 3.261 billion TSh. 
It was decided to have an “independent appraisal” (review) done of the evaluators’ 
report by a team of lawyers, selected from the Ministry of Lands which would have to 
Page  12
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 12 of 55 
approve the evaluation and from the International Union for the Conservation of Nature 
(IUCN).  The two-member team carried out its work in the first half of February 2003.  The 
Ministry’s appointed member was the legal adviser to the Minister of Lands, and would 
eventually also be required to accept or reject the appraisal.  Whether he should have been 
called an “independent” reviewer is open to question, since the final costs of compensation 
would in the appraisers’ own view color the perception of what the government had done in 
creating the new evaluation methods, especially as this was the first time they had been put to 
the test.  The adviser would thus be both the advocate of the final proposal, as the 
“appraiser,” and one of its judges, in his ministry role. 
In any case the team praised the evaluators’ field work in counting the crops, found 
many small errors in their analysis of the results, and was especially concerned at the lack of 
justification for the evaluators’ estimates of crop yields per plant, volumes actually delivered 
to market, and prices achieved.   
The team did not propose alternative yields or prices, awaiting further materials 
from the evaluators.  Nevertheless, the team stated in its report and to the evaluators that 
“The Independent Appraisal Team has been given to expect that the overall crop valuation 
will ultimately be approximately one-third of the current amount,” or, in another place in its 
reporting, ““The Independent Appraisal Team has been given to expect the total to decrease 
(possibly to about 30% of the current valuation.  This will be an important consideration not 
only in determining the amount and nature of compensation, but more importantly in 
determining whether the process can go forward at all.”  No source is given in the report for 
this “expectation,” but it clearly did not come from new research, any reanalysis of the data 
on plant numbers, yields, marketed crops, some alternative proposal for technical evaluation 
methods or an alternative understanding of what the laws implied.  Nor was the suggestion 
very realistic that the process might have to stop if the lowered evaluation was not proposed 
in a new draft.  The appraisal team knew fully from its own fieldwork that farmers had 
stopped cultivating their plants or harvesting the spices and fruits once their crops had been 
counted nine months earlier.  It appears that, as in November 2001 when a “settlement” of 50 
million TSh was proposed by the Ministry’s adviser, the Appraisal Team had also proposed a 
lawyerly settlement of the case rather than a revised evaluation.   
The evaluation firm was not fully responsive to the report of the Independent 
Appraisers except in the one crucial element.  It simply turned in another draft of the 
evaluation, without additional corrections or justifications of its methods of analysis.  It did 
not change the date at the end of its report, July 31, 2002.  But on the same page as this old 
date, it provided a different total for the compensation, village by village.  Overall the total 
was 1.161 billion TSh, a drop of 2.1 billion to 35.6% of the earlier amount.  Without further 
comment, the Government Chief Valuer approved the appraisal on July 23, 2003. 
The EUCAMP project, meanwhile, was coming to a close.  After three phases of 
support from the Government of Finland starting in 1987, the project was closed out in 
December 2002.  The completion report by the Programme Manager and the Chief Technical 
Adviser concludes: “The new land law has affected significantly the exercise of Derema 
reservation. Prices for crops compensation raised for more than five times, and therefore the 
allocated money for compensation was not enough any more. If compensation fails, local 
Page  13
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 13 of 55 
community will loose confidence to the government and this may affect conservation 
activities in the East Usambara due to possible conflicts, which may arise.
”
3
The Completion Report pleaded that “a substantial amount of money is required for 
the entire process of compensation, gazettement and, later on, preparation of practical 
management plans. Failure to secure additional support outside the contribution of the GOT 
will not only result in failure of gazettement and the loss of investment, but also in conflicts 
within and between local communities, policy makers and the conservation institutions in the 
Tanga region.” Once EUCAMP closed, various partial sums of money became available for 
payment of the compensation approved by the Chief Valuer’s decision (and the gazettement, 
management and maintenance of the area would become a goal supported by the GEF-
supported Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund).  In 2004 the Government 
committed 100 million TSh to the compensation exercise.  Finland offered 
 
160,000, which 
is still pending the resolution of a general cover agreement with the Government of Tanzania 
covering Finnish assistance.  In March 2005 the Conservation International (US) Global 
Conservation Fund committed a grant of $ 350,000 for compensation.  Finally, the Critical 
Ecosystem Partnership Fund (of the WWF) has promised $ 150,000 to pay for facilitation of 
the compensation process, the gazettement of the corridor, and the development of a Joint 
Management Agreement with communities and initial monitoring.  These sums add up to 
about $ 650,000 for compensation, plus the supporting CEPF $ 150,000.  Still, by April 
2005, only 64.8 million TSh (about US $ 53,000) were in the relevant compensation bank 
account in Muheza District. 
In June 2004 the Ministry of National Resources approached the Bank (and related 
GEF) forest project Task Managers to request funding to top up the funds available in order 
to make good on the compensation approved in 2002.  The primary response of the Bank, 
after further discussion, was to ask for a Resettlement Action Plan in fulfillment of the 
requirements of Operational Policy 4.12 of the Bank, and the present document is submitted 
toward the end of meeting the Bank’s requirements.   
Meanwhile, as the October, 2005 presidential race in Tanzania heated up, 
authorities became concerned about the resentment growing in Muheza District over the long 
delays in compensation payments (questions were put in Parliament).  Whatever the cause, a 
new move at least to begin the payments was mandated, and the Ministry of Natural 
Resources and Tourism forwarded 50 % of the amount due (about TSh 600 million).  After 
verification of the payment schedules village by village, payment of 50% of the 
compensation determined in the 2002/2003 process was made to each affected villager 
between October 3 and October 10, 2005.  (The election was to be on October 30, but was 
postponed to and held on December 14.)  This was three and a half years after the crops in 
the corridor had been inventoried. 
16. 
With respect to Derema compensation, by mid-2006 there were a number of  
questions needing adequate response, and this Resettlement Plan was commissioned to 
consider them:   
3
East Usambara Conservation Area Management Programme: Completion Report Of The Phase III 
(1999-2002)
,
Administrative Report 40, Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, Tanzania 
(Forestry and Beekeeping Division), and Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Finland (
Indufor/Metsähallitus 
Group), Tanga, December 2002, p. 49 
 
Page  14
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 14 of 55 
(a) Was the evaluation agreed within Tanzania in 2003 in conformity with the governing 
World Bank resettlement policy (OP 4.12)?  If not, what revisions to the 2003 
compensation determination (and/or other measures) are required? 
(b) With the passage of time since crops were inventoried, is a new evaluation, or some 
form of interest, due that is beyond the compensation sums agreed in 2002 and 2003? 
How should any such addition be calculated? 
(c) Will the World Bank consent to the reallocation of funds within the TFCMP project 
to compensation for the Derema Corridor?  Will the Bankwide Land Committee also 
assent to such reallocation, under the requirements of OP 6.00, Annex A of April 
2004.  
Project Impacts
17. 
The Bank-supported TFCMP has not included investments or other interventions in 
the Derema Corridor, nor has it been responsible for the situation there.   
18. 
Ongoing conservation strategy and work since the early 1990s determined that an 
attempt should be made to prevent the further fragmentation of the East Usambara forests, 
and where possible to reconstitute continuous forest, and thereby protect this important 
biodiversity site, by establishing corridors or additional national reserve lands.  Once the 
Amani Nature Reserve was created in 1998 by joining six existing forest reserves and a 
stretch of forest owned by the neighboring East Usambara Tea Company under a protective 
covenant, the next most important action was to demarcate, protect and gazette the Derema 
Corridor. 
19. 
To do so, Derema boundaries were sketched out and then surveyed in 2001.  
Farmers in the adjacent villages were consulted as to options for co-management through a 
“mosaic” of village forest reserves, but chose instead a strategy of having a national Forest 
Reserve and having the villages be designated a buffer area that would receive various 
incentives for “jointly” managing the forest.  There was precedent for this status – sixteen 
villages around ANR formed its buffer zone, and were to get a share of ANR revenues and 
other benefits. 
20. 
Five villages were involved, three on the west side of Derema and two on the east 
(see Annex 1 for a map of Derema), Kisiwani, Kwemdimu, Msasa IBC (named for a logging 
company that had operated in the area from the 1950s to the 1980s), Kwezitu and Kambai.  
Not all the farmers were cultivating in Derema, and while most had one plot in the forest, a 
few had two or more.  The following table shows the population, number of affected farmers, 
and number of affected farm plots in each village.  
Table 1
 
Derema Corridor:  Village Populations, Affected Farmers, Plots Taken 
 
Page  15
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 15 of 55 
Sources:   Populations from village secretaries; affected people from Proper Consult Evaluation 2002 
21. 
Minimizing impacts
.
The World Bank resettlement policy, in parallel with good 
environmental practice, calls for deleterious impacts to be avoided or minimized.  In the case 
of Derema, the ecological analysis had shown that the corridor needed to be gazetted and 
conserved, that the farms within the corridor needed to be expunged, and that only limited 
taking of minor forest products could be permitted in the future.  Several alternative options 
were considered.  First, it was suggested to the villagers at meetings in 2001 that the area 
might be managed through a series of “village mosaic reserves” involving intravillage 
regulation of farming: for reasons not recorded, this option was reported to have been 
rejected in favor of full protection of the corridor as a national forest reserve.  Second, the 
956 hectares of the planned reserve might have been cut back as a narrower corridor, 
affecting fewer farms.  Third, the boundaries of the reserve might have been shifted 
somehow to include less of the farms, at the expense perhaps of tea plantation land.  In the 
event, none of these mechanisms to avoid impact was chosen.  In any case, no physical 
relocation of residences was required, as the boundary was “notched” in the northeastern area 
of the tract to allow the village of Kwemdimu to remain where it was without disturbance to 
residences or food farms on non-forested land. 
 
Affected People
22. 
Socioeconomic studies
.
The attention being paid to the ecology of the East 
Usambaras has been paralleled by concern with the surrounding communities.  In particular, 
the WWF has financed two social impact studies of the impacts of conservation efforts at the 
Amani Nature Reserve and the proposed Derema Corridor. 
23. 
The first, entitled Conservation and Poverty:  A Case Study of the Amani Nature 
Reserve
,
4
was a study of three villages in the boundary areas of the newly created ANR.  It 
examined the effects of the 1997 creation of the ANR, and found many of the problems that 
would later recur in the approach to adding the Derema Corridor.  A buffer zone was 
established around the ANR which required that several hundred farmers give up farm plots, 
but only about 20 – 25 percent of the compensation due was ever paid, in part because some 
crops were called “non-compensable.”  Not all non-timber uses of the Reserve were covered 
in the village agreements -- people complained about the restrictions that the buffer zone 
4
George Jambiya and Hussein Sosovele, Conservation and Poverty:  A Case Study of the Amani 
Nature Reserve
,
Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA) report 0.5, 2001, Dar es Salaam. 
Village 
  Population (2006) 
   Farmers Affected
Farm Plots Taken 
Kisiwani 
Kwemdimu 
Msasa IBC 
Kwezitu 
Kambai 
 
689 
 
1617 
 
2200 
 
2311 
 
1061 
 
59
244 
 570 
 216 
 
39
74 
265 
744 
420 
 
44
Totals 
 
7878 
  1128 
  1547 
Page  16
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 16 of 55 
agreement put into place, but more generally about the lack of information.  Some new land 
out of the Amani area was promised, but it turned out to be not nearly enough to 
accommodate the affected farmers.  Over half the local people felt that they had benefited 
least among stakeholders in the creation of the Reserve.  The authors of the study conclude 
that “the situation is that the demand of the local population and of the national and global 
guardians of biodiversity is in conflict” (p. 38).  The resentment that is reported for the 
Amani villages in the mid-1990s is now also true of the Derema villages in the 2000s.  
24. 
The second study was of the social impacts of the Derema Corridor itself, done 
before
 the reserve boundaries were surveyed or the crop losses were evaluated.  From a 
structured questionnaire and focus group discussion with some 300 villagers and village 
leaders, the study analyzed socioeconomic characteristics of the peoples who would be 
affected in the five villages at the edges of the Corridor, their perceptions of the likely 
impacts of the loss of the corridor to their farming, and the issues they raised about the 
proposed gazettement of the reserve.  
25. 
The mountains’ people
.
People in the Eastern Usambaras come from many 
places.  Virtually all except a few traders, teachers, and wage workers live from own-holding 
agriculture or wage labor in agricultural enterprises supplemented by their own holdings.  
Only about 56% of the people in the five villages were born there.  A third of the population 
came from within the district, either from other mountain villages or from the lowlands 
surrounding the mountains.  A tenth come from other districts in Tanga region, and the last 
one percent come from elsewhere in Tanzania.  Most of the in-migration was attributed to job 
opportunities available in the mountains, earlier in logging (legal and illegal) and later in the 
tea plantations.   Since Bondei, the language of the plains, and Shambaa in the mountains are 
mutually intelligible, and since in any case virtually everyone speaks Swahili, there are no 
great sense of tension or occupational or other differentiation in the area.  Muslims and 
Christians live intermixed, even within families.  Fully 97% of the population has partial or 
complete primary education, increasingly less valuable in today’s Tanzania. 
26. 
There is a strong sense of membership in each of the five villages’ subvillages, 
which are strung out a few scores of meters apart along paths or roads at the base of the 
steepest mountain forest slopes.  Some subvillages are hamlets inhabited by lineage groups 
formed around a single elder male.  Other subvillages are larger units built on wider kinship 
relations or simple geographic contiguity among people exploiting the scattered open 
farming sites on the lower hillsides.  One to three roomed thatched wattle-and-daub houses 
are the norm; only a few have metal roofs.  Each subvillage’s sense of its own lands is that it 
has claims to land stretching from the residential area back to, and then into, the forests.  
Derema corridor is not (yet) gazetted, and is the upland part of these five villages. 
27. 
Farm sizes range from 1 to 40 acres, counting plots both inside and outside the 
forests.  All but 3 percent of the farmers say they “own” their farms, either by inheritance 
(about 37%), through own effort in unclaimed lands (40%), by purchase (about 20%), or by 
allocation under the Ujamaa villagization schemes after 1967.  Five percent of the population 
say that they earn supplementary income from wage labor, about 15 percent say they engage 
in petty trading, and a few individuals have shops or local beer shebeens.  For cash, most of 
the farmers claim to have one of the four major cash crops (cardamom, cloves, black pepper 
and cinnamon), but only 20% (a figure roughly consistent with the later inventories in the 
demarcated corridor) said that these fell within the forest.  Farmers claimed very high 
incomes from these crops:  while there was strong variation among the five villages, on 
Page  17
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 17 of 55 
average each farmer claimed to be earning 1.4 million TSh from cardamom, 165,000 TSh 
from cinnamon, 84,000 from black pepper and 21,000 from cloves.  The later formal 
inventories would cast doubt on these self-reports, given at a time when people already knew 
that there would be takings of their forest plots. 
28. 
Farmers know the environmental and tourism benefits that would accrue from 
protecting the corridor 
–
most Tanzanians in the mountains seem especially aware of the 
importance of their lands as water catchments.  Nonetheless, they were thorough in 
anticipating the losses they would suffer from the closure of Derema to farming.  They would 
suffer permanent loss of income from their cash crop area in the forest, a few food crop 
farms, and the land in the forest that at the time belonged to the villages and the families.  
They feared they would be denied access to non-timber forest products, including fuelwood, 
building poles, wild vegetables, and to water sources and vital pathways that link villages and 
farms.  They knew the loss of income would impair consumption, their ability to pay health 
and school fees, and taxes, and their capacity to save for big items like marriages and family 
emergencies.  They feared that as social security decreased, tension and vulnerability would 
increase:  women and children would lose disproportionately.  For their own part, women 
pleaded with the researchers to help ensure that firewood and minor forest products not be 
denied them once the corridor was gazetted.  Aside from the enumeration of benefits and 
losses, farmers in the soon-to-be affected villages resented government interference and the 
income drop that would follow. 
29. 
Looking beyond the losses, villagers wanted to know how to access new land.  
They know that some villages in the mountains, and many in the lowlands, have undeveloped 
lands beyond their needs.  Some such land is sold, at high prices in the mountains and less 
expensively in the lowlands.  Even Kambai and Kwemdimu, among the villages along the 
corridor, have land available.  Most villagers anticipated that compensation money, if it were 
sufficient, would be spent on land.  Finding land in other villages or downslope in adjacent 
lowland areas is a sign of necessity, but also of the experience of these villagers, whether 
born in the mountains or not, that another generational turn in their fortunes is at hand, and 
that new families being formed, better-off families, and families running out of land in the 
Derema area will need to seek further opportunities away from “home.”  Many farmers 
indicated that they knew there were abandoned sisal estates (and estates licensed but never 
developed), and that government had discussed making it available to the Derema farmers.   
30. 
In the Jambiya and Sosovele study of Derema, farmers were asked their concerns 
about the anticipated closure of the corridor and the associated compensation.  Of course they 
wanted more information, and a participatory process of evaluation.  Given what had 
happened with the gazetting of Amani Nature Reserve, they wanted assurances that 
compensation would be timely and fair.  Women wanted careful preparation by the 
authorities so that men would not waste compensation money if opportunities to use it wisely 
were delayed.  Everyone wanted improved transport and agricultural services, to get on to the 
post-taking phase of their lives. 
31. 
To summarize, the five villages to be affected by Derema were studied to provide a 
baseline as well as to provide guidance for Derema planners.  People in those villages, 
mostly Shambaa and Bondei small farmers, knew first-hand how significantly national or 
local policies and plans periodically affect their lives in significant ways.  Their villages 
lands, neighbors and livelihood possibilities have been strongly constrained by timbering, 
land allocation to plantations, villagization policies, agricultural outreach with high-value 
Page  18
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 18 of 55 
spice crops, and conservation efforts.  Derema farmers know what happened to people 
affected by the creation of ANR.  They were anxious, and many were resentful, about the 
forthcoming effects of their crop losses, which provided the great majority of their cash 
income.  They wished to make certain that new opportunities were provided them so that 
they could start to move on.  
Legal framework
32. 
Tanzanian law.  
At the end of the 1990s, land legislation and regulation was 
significantly overhauled.  Land had for many decades been divided into “registered land” 
governed under modern (colonial and post-colonial) law, and village land governed under 
customary usufruct.  Ujamaa socialism from the period of Nyerere’s presidency had given 
government, in the Land Act of 1967, a variety of powers to take assets for public purposes, 
to allocate unclaimed lands, and to reorganize land use for development purposes.  By the 
turn of the century, the new market-oriented policies of post-Nyerere Tanzania demanded the 
revision of land law.  Two Acts were passed, the Land Act No. 4 of 1999, covering registered 
land, with regulations published in the following two years, and the Village Land Act (No. 5 
of 1999) with associated Village Land Regulations, 2001, published under Government 
Notice No. 86 of 4.5.2001.  A new Forest Act was promulgated in 2002, but does not conflict 
on questions of land regulation or public taking with the two Land Acts of 1999.   
33. 
The Derema corridor is village land, governed by the Village Land Act and Land 
Regulations.  Regulations 9, 10, and 13-18 set out the basis and procedures for compensation 
of village land (and other assets) taken for public purposes.  Compensation is prescribed for 
loss of interest or value in unexhausted improvements, and loss of profits of all enterprises 
including crops.  Disturbance, transport, and accommodation allowances are also to be paid 
where applicable:  for unoccupied land such allowances and losses of profit are defined as 
inapplicable.   The loss of profit (Regulation 15) is to be established by audited accounts 
where necessary and applicable, and is calculated as the net monthly profit of the business 
carried out on the land.  Peasant crops are to be assessed in the same way, to establish the 
income stream lost until new crops are established mature to the point of being able to 
replace the income from the crops lost.  This was a decisive departure from the older system 
under the Land Act of 1967, which mandated a schedule of crop values to be periodically 
updated, with the underlying basis for the prices not especially transparent.  It was this 
difference, redefined at the moment when Derema compensation was under consideration, 
and yielding values far beyond those of the old methods, that proved so debilitating to the 
completion of Derema compensation exercise.  When the Ministry of Lands informed the 
EUCAMP project on October 15, 2001, that it was to use the new law and regulations, it was 
obviously convinced that the new law would provide full and fair compensation in a way that 
the old schedules had not done. 
34. 
Evaluation methods
.
The method for calculating “lost profit” is not prescribed in 
the regulations, but is left to public and private licensed valuers to determine, subject to the 
approval of the Government Chief Valuer.  As for other assets, crops can be valued under 
income and production methods.  This is no easy task in Tanzania, as rural production and 
marketing are not closely scrutinized, and no audited accounts of ordinary small farm 
enterprises are available.  Nor are there agreed schedules of yields from individual plants 
under village conditions.  To calculate profits for the fruits and especially the spice crops 
concerned, it was necessary to know how much product farmers actually sold to middlemen 
in the export trade, and to know that in terms of the average marketed product sold per plant.  
Page  19
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 19 of 55 
Average prices per kilo for these crops are tracked by district crop officers, but this record 
provides no information on individual crops or farmers.  Farmers keep records neither of 
their sales nor of their input costs, of which their own (family) labor is the biggest 
component.  Other law allows village councils to collect a local tax [cess] for crops sold, but 
has proven difficult to implement.  Village authorities have little idea of how much 
production from their villages is marketed or what profits are gained.   
35. 
In lieu of direct sales and input information, profits could be calculated on the basis 
of the average crop yields per production unit, average input prices, and knowledge of 
average crop losses before sales into the marketing chain.  Rural production varies 
enormously in terms of many local conditions, and the Derema case would turn out to be the 
first time the new Land Acts were used to compute rural compensation.  As a consequence, 
the valuers (chosen by competitive bidding to carry out the exercise) felt it appropriate to 
count crops and assign at least some of them to various qualities of production, from newly 
planted to declining maturity, and from well-tended to marginally cared for.  For the crops 
thus counted and calculated, departures from mature well-tended individual plants were 
assigned reduced values for productivity and input costs.  The productivity of mature crops 
could be calculated by consulting producers and village buyers, but not the difference 
between production and actual volumes marketed.  However, in the case of the spice crops 
very little crop produced is lost in the marketing chain, because all four -- cardamom, cloves, 
cinnamon and black pepper -- are simply sun-dried and then sold to traders, mainly buyers 
who live in or arrive at the villages ready to buy.   
36. 
In the case of Derema, it was the EUCAMP project, managed under the Ministry of 
Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT), that set up the taking.  It created the contract with 
the valuers.  When the values derived proved to be large multiples of what was expected, it 
h
ired the “independent appraisal team” to review the valuation and offer further advice.  It 
submitted the final valuation report
5
to the Government Chief Valuer (see para 15 above).  
EUCAMP staff and advisers later organized the requests to other donors for contributions to 
pay the compensation approved, including the approach to the World Bank-funded forestry 
project, also supporting the Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD) of the MNRT.
6
37. 
World Bank policy on takings, and a comparison with Tanzanian law.  
The 
World Bank Operational Policy 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement prescribes many of the 
same principles for displacement from economic assets that are contained in Tanzanian 
legislation and regulations.  These include: 
The fundamental requirement of full, fair, and prompt compensation 
The inclusion of various costs in computing compensation, paid through allowances 
for the indirect costs associated with replacing assets (disturbance, transport, etc.) 
5
“Report on Crop Counting and Valuation of Standing (Inbound) Crops within Proposed Derema 
Forest Reserve,” prepared by Proper-Consult (T) Limited, Dar es Salaam, 31 July 2002. 
6
EUCAMP was the project supporting the Tanga Catchment Forest Office (TCFO) of the Forestry 
and Beekeeping Division.  TFCO has the mandate to control the Catchment Forest Reserves in the 
Eastern Usambaras (which lie in two Districts of Tanga Region).  It has been responsible for the 
creation and/or reorganization of several forest reserves, including the Amani Nature Reserve.  The 
ANR, however, reports directly to the Director of the FBD, independently of the TCFO. 
Page  20
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 20 of 55 
The requirement that crop compensation be computed as the total cost of lost 
production during the period in which replacement activities meant to restore 
income 
39. 
Tanzanian law requires less full treatment of displacement than the World Bank policy 
in the following respects: 
OP 4.12 requires that all aspects of the taking, including the action plan for 
compensation and asset replacement, be planned in advance and be fully 
transparent to all those affected 
It requires that assets be compensated at full replacement value 
It requires that people who lose assets be afforded the opportunities to improve their 
living standards and their ability to replace their productive capacity, or at least to 
replace them.   
It requires that action planning be done in a participatory manner, in which those 
affected by a project fully understand what actions will be taken throughout the 
compensation process 
It requires that accessible and affordable mechanisms for resolution of disputes be 
made available 
40. 
It is not anticipated that any steps will be taken, in relation to this project, to revise 
Tanzanian law and regulation to meet the requirements of OP 4.12.  Instead, the Ministry of 
Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT), in seeking World Bank financial assistance in 
resolving this case of compensation, agrees to implement this Resettlement Action Plan 
(RAP) in accordance with the Bank OP.  In any aspect of the process for which Tanzanian 
and Bank requirements differ or diverge, the MNRT agrees to follow the stricter of the two 
policies and sets of procedures.  Where the Bank policy is silent on a particular point, the 
MNRT will seek no objection from the Bank to implement this RAP according to Tanzanian 
regulation and practice. 
41. 
Bringing the Eastern Arc under World Bank policy.
The IDA-supported 
Tanzania Forest Conservation and Management Project has as major components the support 
of the FBD’s capacity to manage and conserve national biodiversity including forest 
reserves, and to support conservation in the Eastern Arc mountains.  At the time the project 
was presented for approval by the World Bank, it was stated that: 
“Government has agreed that in the unforeseen event that involuntary resettlement becomes 
necessary in the course of project implementation, a detailed resettlement plan s will be 
completed and subject to IDA review well in advance of any resettlement actions.” 
This request to approve a RAP to support Derema gazettement and compensation constitutes 
such a contingency.  In asking for support of the investment program in the Eastern Arc, the 
MNRT also commits to submitting RAPs for any further displacement and compensation in 
any part of the Eastern Arc program, in line with the OP 4.12 requirement that “This policy 
applies to all components of the project that result in involuntary resettlement, regardless of 
the source of financing” (OP4.12, paragraph 4).  This is a vital requirement so that protected 
area management in the Eastern Arc, as it builds corridors and reserves to reconstitute larger 
forest blocks, does not again incur the displacement of farmers under the same uncertain 
conditions that have taken place in the Derema case. 
Page  21
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 21 of 55 
42. 
A
paper from the GEF 
–
UNDP project identifies areas of the Eastern Arc that need 
protection.
7
The paper identifies eleven areas that “need to be” gazetted, adding up to more 
than 76,000 hectares.  These include forests in Mwanga District (Kamwala I and II, 
Kiverenge, Mwala, Kamwenda), Muheza District (besides Derema, there is 
Bamaba/Kwamgumi/Segoma/Kwamtili), Kilosa District (Mamiwa-Kisara North and South), 
Mpwapwa District (Kiboriani), Kilolo District (Kitonga and Kimala), and an area on the 
Rubeho Mountains.  Second, it identifies corridors for connectivity that are important to 
reducing critical fragmentation of various forest areas:  these include Bunduki gap between 
Uluguru North and South, and the Matundu-Uzungwa scarp gap in the Udzungwa 
Mountains.  Third, it recommends upgrading the status of various reserves to Nature Reserve 
or National Park, which could have the effect of making all human use of such areas illegal.   
43. 
These areas are identified here simply to point out that any of them may be land in 
which human uses are significant, and indeed where local people may claim ownership.  The 
argument to reserve them or upgrade existing designations may be compelling, but such 
action will not be taken without a full review, including expert analysis, of the potential 
human costs of such actions, and without taking full account of any such costs in the 
gazettement process.  In the context of this RAP, it is important for the life of the project that 
consistent policy is used.   
Displacement from the Corridor
:
44. 
Tanzanian institutional responsibility.
 
In Tanzania there is no agency with key 
oversight of all resettlement activities.  The Land Act 1999 the Village Land Act 2000 and 
other, sectoral regulatory legislation set out the rules for land taking and the resolution of 
land disputes, but leave administration of the acts to local and national governments and the 
courts.  The principal agency to be involved in the implementation of this Resettlement 
Action Plan is the Forestry and Beekeeping Division of the MNRT.  See the section below on 
the Organizational responsibilities for the implementation of this RAP for more on the 
institutions involved.
 
45. 
Eligibility for compensation.   
Eligibility for compensatory measures for the loss 
of farm plots in the proposed Derema corridor is a simple matter.  All those who had farm 
plots are eligible.  Meetings over several years, led by the ANR, the District, and other 
conservation advisers had prepared the villagers for the eventual taking.  In May and June 
2002 a team led by the valuers, but with Muheza District crops, land, and agricultural 
officers, forest officers, and four field assistants from the affected villages went through each 
of the villages in sequence.  Villagers were called out to their fields, and farmers and village 
leaders verified the bounds and ownership of each field.  Each crop was counted, plant by 
plant, and a leaf was cut or bent to indicate inclusion in the count.  Each farm was assigned a 
code number, and each farmer was photographed at his farm in front of a tree bearing the 
farm code.  Crops were identified on the spot by level of maturity and level of crop 
husbandry.  The counts were recorded on claim forms and signed by the farmer and the 
District land officer.  The farmers were told to record their farm codes and the number of 
plants counted, but were not given a copy of their form on the spot.  Copies of the crop forms 
were promised to each village Chairman, but apparently were not provided.  From earlier 
7
Neil Burgess and Felician Kilahama, How Much of the Eastern Arc Mountains is Protected and What 
Needs to be Done to Complete the Protected Area Network?  Conservation and Management of the 
Eastern Arc Mountain Forests Project
,
Report No. 2004/3, p. 3. 
Page  22
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 22 of 55 
expectations, estimated at the time the “boundary crops” were counted and slashed (when the 
3-meter boundary of the corridor was cut and compensated the previous year), it was 
estimated that there would be 648 farms, but when the counting was completed the actual 
number of farms counted was 1547.  Some of this large increase was no doubt due to rapid 
plantings once the counting was announced, and it is clear that there were higher increases in 
the villages counted later.  Nonetheless, the estimates even of established farms had 
doubtlessly been low, and in any case farms once established would be productive later on.  
In the absence of prior photography or some other survey of farms to establish a cut-off date 
for eligibility, the project and government have had no choice but to confirm the eligibility of 
each farm counted.  No data were collected on the gender, age or other social characteristics 
of the enumerated farmers, so only their names identify who was affected. (Inspection of the 
listed names suggests that perhaps five or ten percent were women.)  After the counts were 
completed, a EUCAMP forest officer remained in the villages to attend to a small number of 
problem cases including farmers who were not available on the days given to the counting 
and disputants to the ownership or inheritance of a farm.  Cases were quickly resolved, 
perhaps because not many farms were more than a few years old.  There is no further issue 
about eligibility:  all farms were counted, and farmers were correctly identified.
 
46. 
Valuation and compensation for losses:  the 2002 exercise.  
The valuation 
method has been described above.  The crops in question were cardamom, black pepper, 
cinnamon, clove, avocado, banana, coconut palm, cocoyam, coffee, guava, kweme (
Telfairea 
pedata, 
a
vine whose seeds are used for oils and for food for nursing mothers and small 
children
), 
jackfruit, lemon, s. malayensis, mango, oil palm, orange, passion fruit, papaya, 
pineapple, and sugar cane, 21 different crops in all.  All of these are tree crops except for 
cardamom, cocoyams, and pineapple, which are low plants set out singly with generous 
spacing, making them easy to count; black pepper, easily counted as a vine growing up host 
shade trees, and sugar cane.  There has been no objection whatsoever to the reliability of the 
counting of the plants, either by farmers or by the independent appraisal team which 
reviewed the valuer’s report.   
47. 
Each plant was assigned to a category representing the productivity of the plant, 
from newly planted to declining maturity, and the apparent quality of its production, from 
well-tended to marginally cared for.  For example, cardamom, the single most important crop 
by far, was divided into three maturity categories, from new planting (called “day old 
seedling” but for cardamom in reality a new cutting from the rhizome with a stalk and one 
young leaf), to “sapling” which was a young plant several months past planting but still not 
yielding seed capsules, to mature productive plant.  In addition, mature cardamom were 
divided into three categories by quality of care, roughly well-tended, average, and below 
average/partially abandoned, the last of these recognizing aging plants at the end of their 
productive cycle, and “saplings” were divided into two categories, younger and older.  
Bananas (actually plantain) were similarly divided into two categories of mature plants two 
categories of immature plants, and new cuttings.  Most other plants were similarly 
categorized into one or two levels of mature plants, and usually one category of immature 
plant plus a level of new planting.  The full categorization as used by the valuers is 
reproduced in Appendix 1:  this Appendix is the original version produced by Proper 
Consult, with limited revisions (see below). 
48. 
For each crop, the next step was to calculate operating costs.  These included labor 
costs from plot clearing to transport and drying, and limited input costs (mainly for seedlings, 
Page  23
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 23 of 55 
because no fertilizers or pesticides are applied to crops in this area).  An estimate of the 
domestic consumption of each relevant crop was also made.   
49. 
Independently of this evaluation of the crops on the ground, estimates of the sales 
prices of mature crops could be calculated by consulting producers and village buyers.  That 
left a gap between the calculated production of each category and quality of plant on the one 
hand (the production at farm 
“gate”), and the quantities actually put into the marketing chain.  
These were not known, and could vary substantially between the spice crops, very little of 
which is lost in the sun-drying and marketing chain (crops are mainly sold to buyers who live 
in or visit the villages), and more perishable crops like oranges or guava.  Nonetheless, with 
limited observations and field studies, Proper Consult did the best it could to estimate the 
marketed production from each crop, by maturity and quality of husbandry. 
50. 
The concept of compensation built into the Tanzanian Village Land Act is to pay 
the value of lost production until new crops can be established and can grow to the point at 
which they are producing the same quantity of product as has been lost, so that there is no net 
loss of income over time.  The law adopted an “average” length of time to crop maturity, set 
at three years, and the valuer therefore calculated the monthly production of each mature 
crop and multiplied by 36 to get a total value for the crop. For non-mature crops, it estimated 
each year’s production and reduced the factors put into the calculation of the 36-month 
period accordingly.  This logic does not hold for the case of Derema, however.  Especially 
for cardamom and black pepper, the plots in the forest cannot be replaced.  Forest shade and 
moisture provide essential field conditions for the production of cardamom, the single crop 
that accounts for 74 percent of all compensation, and black pepper also thrives in shade.  The 
other trees and field crops have varying affinities for forest conditions.  Also true, however, 
is that three of the villages (Msasa, Kwezitu, and Kisiwani) are running out of land for any 
crops.  A few fruit or spice trees may be planted in these villages, but there is simply not the 
space to re-establish the lost crops in the numbers that were planted in the forest.  
51. 
 
Valuation and compensation for losses:  World Bank (OP 4.12) requirements 
for crop and tree losses.  
The basic principle of compensation under the World Bank policy 
is that people should be paid the full replacement value for assets lost.  The policy is specific 
about crops and economic trees:  like the new Tanzanian policy, it requires that a 
computation be done of the full value of lost production until such time as new plantings 
achieve the same level of maturity and productivity as those that were taken.  In the 
circumstances of Derema, the following considerations apply: 
Crops were not slashed by the authorities after the valuation.  But people were told 
that their crops would be paid for within six months (as the law required), that is, by the 
end of 2002.  Like people everywhere in the world, farmers started to disinvest in their 
farms by harvesting what was available and then giving up any further husbandry.  In the 
climate and circumstances of the forest, that meant that vermin began to attack plants, 
and the forest started to grow back, within months.  Recent visitors to farm sites confirm 
that they have been abandoned. 
Farmers did not get alternative land or seedlings to plant on whatever free land 
there might have been for those crops that might have grown in the villages. 
Farmers therefore will have lost the value of their production for 2003, 2004, 2005 
and 2006.   
Page  24
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 24 of 55 
In addition, by not having been paid (until the payment of late 2005), they lost the 
value the money might have had if it had been delivered on time, before crops were given 
up.  The money that will now be paid has suffered from inflation, and had the farmers 
received it, they would have earned interest even if they had left it in a bank account.  In 
fact, it is likely that they would have invested in low-risk enterprises (crops or livestock 
or land) which would have been more inflation-proof than savings accounts. 
Had they been paid the production value of their farm plots each year, they would 
have received a payment which would have started to be invested at the time of the 
payment.  Each year’s loss, by not being paid, has suffered from inflation starting after it 
might have been paid. 
52. 
A
revised calculation based on World Bank norms
.
The Terms of Reference 
underlying this report required a full reanalysis of the compensation due the farmers, and the 
World Bank made it clear that this exercise would have to meet World Bank standards if the 
Bank was to be able to assist the Government in the revised compensation scheme. 
First, the counts, crop quality classifications, and productivity for all the crops (with 
one exception, see next point) were borrowed from the Proper Consult valuation.   There 
had been general agreement, by the report “appraisal” team and from the villagers met in 
the course of this RAP preparation, that these numbers were right. 
Cardamom accounted for 74 percent of the value of all crops lost, according to the 
valuators’ figures.  Fieldwork for this action plan therefore concentrated on the values for 
cardamom.  It reviewed production of green and dry product in the villages, with growers 
and traders, both those affected people with a stake in the outcome, and those without.  It 
found that the 2002 analysis overestimated cardamom production 
per plant
.
It therefore 
revised the figure for production from a single plant, per year for its three productive, 
downward from 5 kilos of dry cardamom to 3 kilos. 
With that change, the original compensation calculated by Proper Consult in the 
first drafts of their report (before the changes required after the “Independent Appraisal 
Report”) have been accepted as to production, yields (at different plant maturities, 
volumes, and market values (with minor corrections of errors).  The farmer-by-farmer 
files prepared in 2002 by Proper Consult were then revised accordingly, and are available 
in project files in the MNRT/FBD to be used for purposes of payment.  
Tanzanian inflation from 2003 to 2006 will be added to the payments due, to 
remediate the loss suffered by the farmers’ not having actually received their payments at 
the end of 2002.  Values for accumulated inflation are available from the President’s 
Office, Planning and Privatization, as follows:  
 
Table 2 
INTEREST RATE STRUCTURE AND INFLATION:  TANZANIA 
(in percent) 
 
2003
2004
2005
2006
/2
Commercial 
Banks: 
     
Page  25
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 25 of 55 
 
Deposit rates - Domestic currency 
 
Savings 
2.5
2.4
2.6
2.6
Fixed (3-6 months) 
3.5
4.3
4.4
5.3
Real interest rate 
/1
 
-1.0
-1.8
-1.7
-3.9
Inflation (annual average)
3.0
4.2
4.3
6.5
Cumulative inflation Jan 2003 - Dec 2006                                                                               19.8 
 
1/  Derived based on the deposit interest rate on savings offered by the commercial banks. 
2/  December 2005 figure is taken assuming it has remained the same in 2006. 
 
Source:  President's Office - Planning & Privatization, The United Republic of Tanzania, The Economic Survey
The figure for the cumulative value of inflation was then added to all the payments 
due from 2002 (without subtracting the payment of late 2005).   
The following table gives the results for each village, by crop.  A companion table 
for all crops and villages, is in :   
 
TABLE 3 
 
TOTAL REVISED COMPENSATION DUE BY END 2006  
FOR ALL CROPS INVENTORIED, BY VILLAGE  (T Sh) 
Source:  Recomputation based on 2002 crop counts and classifications  
53. 
Inflation adds 19.8 percent to each of these figures, to each farmer’s compensation, 
and therefore to the total due.  
The total compensation, including inflation, due by the end 
of 2006 is T Sh 2,730,326,407, or US $ 2,184,261 at US$1 = TSh 1250.
 
Some further 
discussion of this table is warranted.  The total amount due is somewhat less than Proper 
Consult’s original calculations, due overwhelmingly to the reduction in the productivity of 
cardamom made during the current recomputation exercise.  Paying inflation violates neither 
CROPS 
VILLAGE 
CARDAMOM 
BLACK 
PEPPER 
CLOVE CINNAMON BANANA ALL 
OTHERS 
TOTAL 
KISIWANI 
4,610,910 1,319,975 1,003,200 
96,242 3,351,270 
1,691,963 12,073,560 
KAMBAI 
6,025,191 
186 685,140 
2,300 200,021 
435,611 7,348,449 
KWEZITU 
356,439,969 103,465 
6,289,940 321,747 
12,983,802 
4,944,736 381,083,659 
KWEMDIMU 
445,802,740 1,572,243 1,406,260 
143,959 9,108,422 
3,084,343 461,117,967 
MSASA IBC 
1,230,348,512 2,492,447 72,571,626 3,655,427 84,669,044 
23,709,766 1,417,446,822 
TOTAL 
2,043,227,322 5,488,316 81,956,166 4,219,675 
110,312,559 
33,866,419 
2,279,070,457 
TOTAL 
WITH 
INFLATION 
 
2,730,326,407 
Page  26
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 26 of 55 
Tanzanian law nor Bank rules.  It provides for completing the payment of the 
“fair” 
compensation that is the basis of international comparative law nearly everywhere.  Paying 
inflation is a better mechanism than paying Tanzanian bank savings rates, as is also shown in 
Table 1, as savings interest has lagged inflation.  It should also be remembered that the 
villagers’ labor has been used elsewhere over this period four crop years since the crops were 
taken, and so it is also fair to have deducted labor and other input costs from the value of the 
crops raised, as has been done in the calculations. 
54. 
Income restoration measures
.
Compensatory measures are required that enable 
the affected farmers to recover their incomes.  Given the lack of available land in the five 
villages, there are two major sets of measures that will be taken.  The first of these is the 
ongoing and expanding set of more intensive agricultural enterprises that have been 
introduced into the villages around Amani Nature Reserve, or to all the villages in the area, 
as part of NGO projects or as explicit actions to improve incomes in the buffer zone of the 
ANR.  The second line of action that will enable income recovery and improvement is the 
active allotment of lands in the ex-plantation areas in the lowlands to the east of Derema. 
55. 
As the ANR was created in 1997, its management concluded arrangements with 
eighteen villages around it to become a buffer zone operating an ongoing Joint Forest 
Management plan.  This built on the efforts of the IUCN in the 1980s to carry out 
“conservation-based rural development.”
8
The idea has been to reduce pressures on the 
forests by improving agriculture in the neighboring areas.  With ANR creation, income 
generation activities, environmental education, and village forest reserves were made parts of 
the plan to assist the villages.  Reciprocally, villagers have also agreed to limit firewood 
collecting in the forest to twice a week, to collect medicinal plants by permission only (with 
some effort to allow only traditional healers to collect the relevant materials), and to 
cooperate with researchers, foresters, and the conservation effort.  Incentives are explicit:  not 
only are there the income activities, but also the eighteen villages share 20 percent of the 
entrance and research fees of the ANR and a share of the sales of illegal timber confiscated 
by village action.  Lately this income sharing has amounted to about 2.6 million TSh, or 
about 145,000 TSh per village per annum.  Derema village leaders expect that they will be 
included in the local share-out, once Derema is gazetted.   
56. 
The income generation activities have been diverse.  They are all directed at 
individual villagers, to take up the innovations according to their own sense of opportunity, 
interest and capability.  All Amani villages participate in these programs, including farmers 
from the Derema Corridor villages.  While there is some criticism that individual programs 
have been offered to politically well-connected villagers, the range of programs available 
now extends across the villages.  Among the programs being offered are these: 
Allanblackia 
seed harvesting.  The Tanga Forest Catchment Project has been 
working with the UNDP’s Growing Sustainable Business unit, the International Center 
for Research in Agro-Forestry (ICRAF) and Lever UK, which buys the large seeds of the 
Allanblackia stuhlmannii
 tree for use in soap and cooking oils.  Adaptive efforts are 
being made to raise the tree within village conditions, including grafting to reduce 
maturity times to 5-6 years.  200 tons were bought in the early 2006 harvest from 645 
8
An account of these schemes is presented in Heini Vihemäki, “Politics of Participatory Forest 
Conservation:  Cases from the East Usambara Mountains, Tanzania,” Journal of Transdisciplinary 
Environmental Studies vol. 4, no. 2, 2005, pp. -16.  On the Web as http://www.journal-tes.dk/ 
Page  27
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 27 of 55 
farmers, yielding the average collector about US$ 400, and a total of 300 million TSh to 
the area.  
Butterfly farming.   In 2005 a net 32 million TSh were earned by 250 farmers in a 
program set up by the Tanzanian Forestry Conservation Group and with assisted by 
Conservation International (through the Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund), World 
Vision, the McKnight Foundation and others.  Farmers collect and feed the larvae of 
certain species of butterflies until they pupate, at which time the project office collects 
the cocoons and sends them by courier to buyers in the United States and Europe.   
Beekeeping.  A new program has offered modern beehives to villages to increase 
honey and wax production.  So far only about 20 hives have been set up, but there is 
enthusiasm to take up this activity. 
Zero-grazing dairy cows.  A small-scale dairy development project in Tanga, with 
support from Heifer International, has been promoting zero-grazing dairy cows and milk 
collection in the Amani area.  So far two stainless-steel coolers have been set up, and 
some hundreds of farmers bring milk in each morning.  The milk goes to the dairy 
farmers’ cooperative in Tanga, and is sold to TangaFresh, mainly for yoghurt production. 
Fish ponds.  So far there are 6 fish ponds in operation, producing about 30 kg. of 
fish each three months.  There is little animal protein in the Amani villages, so the fish 
sell at good prices. 
55. 
Other activities have included the encouragement of spice farming on existing 
farms out of the forest, the production of improved adobe blocks for building construction, 
training in anti-erosion techniques especially for food crop fields, the possible use of lemon 
grass on contours as a water retention technique, and others.  As well, several school-leavers 
from the villages near the Amani guest house have been trained as nature guides.  They get $ 
30 per day of guiding, of which 20 percent goes to ANR administration to help keep up 
several nature trails.  Finally, ANR has a strict policy of offering employment in all its 
activities to people from the buffer zone villages. 
56. 
Land allocation
.
The ancillary activities described above are useful additions to 
farmers’ cash incomes, but they are not as lucrative as the forest plots, and some cannot reach 
beyond a limited number of adopters or the various markets will soon be saturated.  Much 
more important is access to alternative land in parcels large enough to provide sites for 
agriculture that would at least fully replace the land lost to the forest.  As part of this RAP, 
the government has committed to making such land available.   
57. 
In March 1999 the Ministry of Lands decided that Muheza District lands that had 
once been allocated to sisal plantations, but were either never fully developed or had failed, 
should be given back to the authority of the village governments to make available to 
ordinary farmers.  Each village was requested to prepare a list of interested farmers, and the 
Ministry of Lands urged that Districts ensure that land be subdivided in such a way that roads 
could be made available for evacuating crops (see Annex B for the text).  A list of the estates 
was provided, together with the villages to which the estates were allocated.  None of the 
Derema villages was on the list, but estates downhill from the Derema villages were.  In early 
August 2001, the Muheza District Commissioner (DC) wrote to the Divisional secretaries to 
extend the availability of land to villagers in the Amani area, in part because some of the 
villages to which plantation land had reverted had plenty of land of their own.  The DC set 
out the terms for such allocations, stating that three-acre parcels should be created, that each 
Page  28
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 28 of 55 
such parcel should be given to allocatees for a registration and boundary confirmation fee of 
3500 TSh, and that no compensation be paid to anyone who claimed any of this plantation 
land.  The land in question is at Mkwajuni and Misozwe villages.  (See Annex C for the 
Swahili text of this order.)  Very quickly some 438 farmers from seven of the villages around 
Amani, of which two are Derema villages (Msasa IBC and Kisiwani), signed up for this 
allocation process. (See Annex D for the text).  It is not clear whether the three other Derema 
villages were solicited for interested villagers. 
58. 
Once these lists were made up and sent to District headquarters, however, little 
further action took place.  Villagers in the Derema area claim that they did not follow up 
because they were waiting for the compensation process to take its course.  Even if they had 
the small amount to secure their allocation, they did not have the money to develop the land 
they might get, and they thought they could lose the land again if they did not develop it 
within a short period.  That does not explain why non-Derema villagers signed up but did not 
follow through, as they were not expecting compensation for land at the time.  It is more 
likely that a major reason there was little result of this initiative is that the authorities did not 
further facilitate the process by brokering realistic contacts between villagers and the village 
authorities in control of the land.   
59. 
The 2001 initiative to induce Amani area villagers to relocate at least part of their 
production to the lowlands came to little.  However, the last five years have seen the growing 
value of arable land in the lowlands.  With the continued growth of the Tanzanian (and other 
East African) economies in the last five years, available land on the coastal plains between 
Dar es Salaam and Tanga is becoming more and more attractive to investors.  Citrus, 
groundnuts, cashews, and beans, are enjoying a period of rapid market growth.  Sisal, which 
had nearly died as a viable crop by thirty years ago, is making a comeback as a natural fiber 
alternative to non-biodegradable plastic, and as a possible source of biogas-derived electricity 
from the waste.  Tanga orange growers have quadrupled their incomes in the last five years 
through cooperative marketing and aggressive entry into Nairobi markets.  Input supplies, 
nursery stock and marketing chains are being built for each of these crops.  A large number 
of research, input supply, microfinance, marketing and processing institutions, companies, 
and projects are
 working to commercialize more of Tanzania’s food crop agriculture. 
60. 
There is, in short, a renewed set of opportunities to be realized in the lowlands.  
This, coupled with the termination of forest spice farming, has sent clear messages to Derema 
farmers.   A few of them (from Kwezitu and Kwemdimu, for example) have already found 
land on their own initiative, and are growing oranges, coconuts, and maize.  What is needed 
for the affected Derema farmers is a concerted plan to make the alternative land possibilities 
a
reality for those who want them.   
61. 
One of the core purposes of buffer zone management is to reduce pressure on the 
Nature Reserve.  As Jambiya and Sosovele pointed out with respect to the ANR itself,    
“The promotion of land-use practices in Tanzania that maintain low human density on 
adjacent lands is probably the most desirable long term strategy.  However, while this is 
desirable, the main problem is how exactly to maintain low populations in such areas?  …In 
areas such as the Eastern Arc Mountains, population pressures are considerable.”
9
9
George Jambiya and Hussein Sosovele, Conservation and Poverty:  A Case Study of the Amani 
Nature Reserve
,
Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA) report 0.5, 2001, Dar es Salaam, p. 13. 
Page  29
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 29 of 55 
62. 
While ANR establishment in 1998 stated that “the [conservation] goal should be 
reached in such a way that living conditions of local people are ensured and their 
activities…have a sustainable basis,” the endogenous pressure of human population growth is 
a
long-term issue.   Often this question is seen to be immutable, to assume that populations 
have ancient roots in a locale and that their out-migration or relocation does violence to 
history and identity.  Discussion above shows, to the contrary, that in Tanzania generally,
10
 
including the Eastern Usambaras, changing political and market constraints have 
continuously “rewritten” the livelihood strategies of the villagers.  A move of economic 
activity, and later perhaps of residences, down to the lowlands in a period of reduced tension 
with neighboring populations but increased frictions with the conservation goals of the 
government, is less an act of violence than a recurring feature of Shambaa peoples’ history 
and outlook. 
63. 
It is to be noted that the availability of land in the lowlands, and its allocation to 
Derema villages, is not a resettlement plan in disguise for the villagers who will take it up.  
There is no need for housing to be relocated.  Few families will move downhill away from 
their close relatives.  No additional schools or other social facilities are needed at the 
resettlement sites, which will have at most some temporary shelters for work to be done 
during the peak agricultural season.  The farm plots at Misozwe and Mkwajuni are not the 
prior property, or parts of, the receiving villages themselves, since the land they have been 
assigned was taken for plantation development from the large amount of unclaimed land 
decades ago.   That explains why the government has been careful to say that only a 
registration fee will be due to the adjacent villages, and why it further stated that no 
compensation was due for this open land to any party.  In terms of the Bank’s Involuntary 
Resettlement Policy, no treatment of the area is needed as “host communities” receiving new 
investor/arrivals into their midst. 
64. 
Organizational Responsibilities.  
Responsibility for implementing this RAP is 
lodged in a number of bodies that have already been working together for the conservation of 
the Eastern Arc and on the compensation issue over several years.  Fortunately they work 
closely and collaboratively.  The major tasks of the RAP are threefold: 
a) 
Organize and pay out the cash compensation, including all the associated record 
confirmation and file keeping 
b) 
Re-start and follow through on the allocation of land to affected Derema villagers, 
in the first instance affected farmers but also others 
c) 
Ensure the extension of “buffer zone” and other rural development rules, activities, 
and privileges to Derema villages  
65. 
Compensation payment.  There are two major steps needed to complete the actual 
compensation process.  First, disclosure of this RAP and the proposed revisions to the 
previous compensation policy and payments must take place in the villages and to District 
and Regional leadership.  Village leadership and affected people, having been subjected to 
10
 
For a view from the Western Usambaras, see Christopher A. Conte, “Colonial Science and 
Ecological Change:  Tanzania’s Mlalo Basin 1888-1946,” Environmental History, April 1999.  Conte 
shows how young men in the nineteenth century saw the threats to their agricultural systems and 
adjusted continuously:  “they 
demonstrated a willingness to experiment and improvise in response to 
a
multitude of changing ecological, demographic, and economic conditions. No European observer 
appeared to understand that the changes over two generations of contact represented both 
continuities and breaks with past practice
.”
 
Page  30
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 30 of 55 
various payment proposals in the past and having raised strong objections to the “fifty-
percent payment” idea of October 2005, need to know and react to the proposals being made 
under the influence of the World Bank policy now covering this process.  To undertake this 
step, the RAP will be translated in an accessible version into Swahili, and then workshops 
and presentations will be held with the affected villages.  The Critical Ecosystems 
Partnership Fund-supported team in WWF Tanzania is willing to carry out this step.  That 
team is extremely well-placed to do so, given its decade-long involvement in ANR 
monitoring and impact studying.  
66. 
Second, the payment process must take place.  For this step, TFCMP, working 
through the Catchment Office in Tanga, has already established mechanisms for payment 
during the exercise of part-payment in October 2005.  FBD officers, with the cooperation of 
village government officials, reconfirm balances due to farmers, confirming lists of payments 
due with signed forms from the farmers.  Both the District Commissioner and the Regional 
Commissioner then sign the schedules (Land Form 23).  Payments are made by check, drawn 
on a branch of the National Microfinance Bank (NMB) of Tanzania in Muheza town, which 
has an established Derema compensation account with an ongoing balance.  .A day is set up 
for payments, village by village.  With security for the checks and the process in place, 
NMB, District, village, and FBD officers are in place, confirm the identity of the recipient, 
and turn over the checks.  A record of this transaction is signed by both parties with copies 
for both.  It records the amount paid with a transparent farm loss record underlying the 
payment, and the date of the transaction.  The NMB will cash the checks without charge, 
upon presentation of proof of identity, but of course farmers can deposit checks to other 
accounts they may have.  The WWF Participatory Development team may also monitor the 
work.    
67. 
Land acquisition.  The 2001 land allocation directives from the central government 
and the District, described above, are still in place.  What is needed is a dedicated action plan 
to arrange visits to the designated areas by prospective farmers, carry out or facilitate the 
applications for and documentation of land allocations, and ensure that the appropriate legal 
transactions are concluded.  In addition, contacts with suppliers (of research, extension, 
inputs) and buyers (cooperatives, companies and individuals) are needed at the home village 
areas to enable farmers to judge in advance what investments they might want to make, what 
demands on their time and money would be involved, and what outcomes they might expect.  
For most crops that may be developed at the new sites, it will probably not be necessary to 
move residence “downhill” to the new farms, but for some crops the peak labor demands or 
the high value of the crop nearing maturity may require at least a temporary shelter at the 
new site.  On the other hand, some people – especially young farmers who control little land 
in the home villages, are starting new families, and have no chance of reviving spice crops 
for cash -- may sooner or later move “downhill” more permanently.   
68. 
All Derema village farmers are eligible for the available land.  The task of 
facilitating its acquisition will require the coordinator (see next paragraph) to build lists of 
those interested in such land, to work out rules of priority to those farmers whose incomes 
were hardest-hit if there are more investors than there is land available, to secure additional 
land if possible and needed, and to ensure that villagers fully participate in the process of 
setting rules and organizing any common action that may be needed.   
69. 
This activity would need professional guidance through a period of two years, until 
the routine is well enough established for later “adopters” of the opportunity to follow the 
Page  31
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 31 of 55 
lead of their peers.  
A
“compensation and development coordinator” would be contracted to 
work in the office of the ANR conservator for two years.  He would act as an advocate for 
the Derema farmers – not only those displaced from the forests, but also other members of 
the villages.  He would start as soon as possible, at the latest when there is agreement 
between the FBD and the World Bank that it will finance the compensation and development 
activity.  There is little sense beginning the core of the program until the dates for full 
compensation payments are announced in the villages:  only then will there be people with 
the means to act on their current motivations.  The program would include the following 
steps (a program budget is included below in the Budget section of this RAP).   
Figure 1:  Actions to enable land acquisition in the lowlands for Derema farmers 
Activity Facilitator 
Coordination 
with: 
Dates 
Reconfirm District 
commitments to land 
allocation, 
with priority to 
5
Derema villages;
 agree 
that farmers may get up to 
two 3-acre plots 
‘Compensation and 
Development’ (C&D) 
coordinator in office 
of ANR conservator 
RC, DC, DED, District 
Forestry, Lands, and 
Local Government 
officers, Divisional 
Officers for plantation 
areas, and ‘host’ village 
officials 
Start 3 months before 
compensation is due to 
be distributed; 
reconfirm to WB with 
commitment letters 
from DC and host 
villages  
Facilitate subdivision of 
estate lands into 3 acre 
plots 
C&D coordinator 
with District Min 
Lands officers 
Surveyors(?),  host 
village governments 
Start when revised 
compensation plan is 
agreed with WB Bank 
Visit each village for 
preliminary explanations 
of steps to be taken:  
assemble lists of those 
seriously wanting land 
C&D coordinator 
Village government 
officials in the Derema 
villages; farmers 
Start when revised 
compensation plan is 
agreed with World 
Bank 
Workshops in each village 
or at ANR HQ on benefits, 
disadvantages and costs of 
each lowland crop; 
financing; sources of 
stock, markets, (recurring 
training days) 
C&D coordinator 
with District 
Agric/Crop officers 
ANR, crop buyers and 
agro-processors in 
Tanga, input suppliers, 
representatives of 
projects and 
research/extension 
stations 
Start when money for 
all compensation is 
confirmed to be in 
Muheza bank account 
Organize visits of 
interested farmers by bus 
to subdivided areas 
C&D coordinator 
Host village 
government officials, 
District lands officers 
and crop officers 
Start when subdivision 
plans show actual plots, 
and money is in Muheza 
bank account 
Coordinate preparation of 
applications for specific 
plots, and payments 
C&D coordinator 
Ministry of Lands, host 
villages, others? 
Start after compensation 
funds are given to 
affected villagers 
Ensure preparation and 
delivery of titles or 
certificates of land transfer 
to new holders 
C&D coordinator 
Ministry of Lands, host 
villages, land registry 
Once applications are 
accepted  
Ensure timely delivery of  
agri-food information, 
inputs, marketing contacts 
C&D coordinator, 
with whole array of 
agri-food actors/ 
stakeholders 
Ministry of Agric, 
donor projects,  
Balance of two years of 
contract of C&D 
coordinator 
Ensure monitoring of farm 
income recovery from the 
lowland farms 
C&D coordinator to 
set up and oversee a 
subcontracted 
i
i
d
TFCMP monitoring 
program, and others 
(subcontractor, 
U
i
i
)
Sub-contract in place at 
12 months before end of 
C&D contract; report to 
TFCMP
Page  32
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 32 of 55 
monitoring study 
University, etc.) 
TFCMP 
70. 
Buffer zone and alternative livelihoods initiatives.  The C&D coordinator will work 
for the Conservator of the ANR, who already has on his staff a deputy conservator for 
Research, Training, and Community Development.  Some of these activities run with support 
from outside actors, but the deputy conservator has a full plate with the growing volume of 
conferences and research at ANR.  The C&D coordinator will be well-placed to share some 
of the Community Development/livelihood responsibilities.  He/she will coordinate with the 
large array of supporters of ancillary community-based activities around all of Amani 
(including proponents of new projects, of which several propose to use NTFPs (e.g., beetles, 
medicinal plants) like the Allanblackia, with potentially variable effects on the ANR itself.  
He/she will in effect help co-manage the development aspects of relationships with the buffer 
zone villages.  
71. 
Community participation
.
Participatory development has been a watchword of 
the reformation of conservation in the East Usambaras from the beginning.  The early 
Finnish engagement in the area to the 1980s had still been based on commercial forestry.  
Pressure both in Finland and from conservation experts and groups in Tanzania moved 
Finland to shift toward ecologically-based conservation, and from 1992 the IUCN saw the 
Finnish- and EU-supported Eastern Usambara Conservation and Agricultural Development 
Project (EUCADEP, later EUCAMP) as a test case for collaboration for biodiversity 
protection combined with the needs of local people.  Participatory Rural Appraisal was used 
to work out arrangements with the (16) buffer zone villages around the ANR at its creation in 
1998, and to organize some of the on-farm activities that supported conservation.  An 
advisory board for the ANR was constituted with different stakeholders as members, 
including government officers, the tea companies, and two representatives of local 
communities (it would turn out, however, that the board was called to meetings only 
infrequently).  As the subject of the Derema corridor was raised, PRA and consultations with 
the five villages that would possibly be affected were carried out, with one interim result 
being the rejection by the villages of a strategy of village forest reserves as the management 
tool for Derema.   
72. 
When it was decided to gazette Derema as a reserve and therefore to remove 
cultivated farms from the area, the villages were consulted all along the way.  The Social 
Impact Assessment summarized earlier in this document provided extensive details about the 
Derema project and the impacts that concerned those likely to be affected.  The demarcation 
of the boundary was done with full collaboration by the villagers, who both worked on the 
slashing and, if they were directed affected, got the compensation.  The inventorying and 
enumeration of crops provided weeks of direct contact between villagers, village authorities, 
District officers and the valuers.   
73. 
From mid-2002 until mid-2006, that is from the point at which the valuation was 
done until the period in which the present report was written, contact between villagers and 
the authorities in charge of this exercise has been intermittent, and increasingly sensitive in 
overall tenor.  The “independent appraisal” team visited the ANR and government officials in 
Tanga and Muheza in February 2003 in connection with their work, but did not hold village 
meetings.  In June 2004 a World Bank supervision mission for the TFCMP (a large team 
including UNDP, Danida, Finland Foreign Affairs Ministry, NORAD, WWF, and a number 
of senior Tanzanian government officials) visited the area and heard loudly from Msasa IBC 
Page  33
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 33 of 55 
villagers how annoyed they were by the payment delays. 
 
By June 2005 WWF consultants 
were advising Regional and District officials of “the anger and frustration of the local 
communities including their lack of understanding on how the values for compensation were 
reached.
 
Communities were also concerned …whether [adequate compensation] will ever be 
made.”  
74. 
In August 2005, when the Ministry of Lands agreed to add enough money to the 
compensation account for Derema to make half the payment, the Tanga Catchment Forest 
Office began work to reconfirm the crop inventories and get farmers’ signatures that the 
money they would receive was valid.  This period quickly turned very tense.  Villagers began 
to request interest for the period of three years that had elapsed since the valuation, 
and
more 
importantly they rejected the values assigned to their crops
.
In Kwezitu less than 50% of the 
villagers turned up to verify the values assigned.  In Msasa IBC villagers forced the team to 
stop the verification exercise, and police had to ‘rescue’ the team.  In Kambai no farmer 
turned up at all for the verification.  Letters from villagers complained about the values and 
the interest issue, and the Member of Parliament for Muheza District and the District 
Commissioner stepped in to try to intervene with the MNRT but also to calm the villagers.  It 
was agreed that the payments would be accepted by the villagers, but without their agreeing 
that the payments represented 50% of the sums due.  For farmers whose total payments were 
to be very small, it had been proposed to pay the whole sum due in one check, but farmers 
quickly realized that they might then be listed as having been fully paid, so they demanded to 
get paid like the others and to stay on their case.  Verification of the counts was then 
completed in a central location away from the villages (at Zigi Station, the gateway to the 
ANR), and both there and when payments were effected at the bank in Muheza in October 
armed policemen were brought in to keep order.  
75. 
Fieldwork for this action plan was undertaken in mid-June, 2006.  Each village was 
visited, with a long visit to explain that the government had requested assistance from the 
World Bank forest project to resolve the long-standing compensation question.  Villagers 
registered their objections to what had happened, and discussed what their losses meant for 
the four years since their crops were inventoried and abandoned.  They expressed their hopes 
about what would be done for a final resolution of the situation.   In one village there was an 
incident of rock-throwing at one of the visiting vehicles, but otherwise the meetings were 
orderly, and the farmers were fully engaged. 
76. 
Grievance redress mechanisms. 
The World Bank’s policy requires that there be 
mechanisms for resolution of disputes that may arise from any aspect of the compensation 
and development process.  The mechanisms are to be “affordable and accessible,” and third 
parties independent of the implementers should be available at the appropriate point in the 
process.  In Derema there is, as has been narrated, long-term grievance with the way in which 
the crop takings have unfolded.  There will have to be a good deal of mutual compromise 
between authorities and villagers to enable resolution of the current impasse, but it is not 
imagined that a spirit of wanting to complete the action will be sufficient to still all 
grievances. 
77. 
Because it is widely agreed that the crop counts were accurate and fair, few quarrels 
with the original counts are likely to be lodged.  Disputes are more likely to arise over (a) 
missing records for a whole field, (b) the categorization of plants into various stages of 
maturity and the quality of husbandry, or (c) the values established for each type and 
category of crop.  Of these, there may be a few cases of missing records (item (a)), and by 
Page  34
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 34 of 55 
checking the tables, records forms, and photographs it should be possible to clear these 
exceptions without extensive dispute resolution processes being needed.  Item (b) is an issue 
for which no alternative evidence has been kept by the valuers (there are no photographs of 
individual trees or plants, and it is unlikely that villagers can document that their plants were 
at a higher stage of maturity or were better cared for than is indicated by the valuers’ 
categorizations, which were done immediately upon finishing the field counts.  In 
disseminating the results of this RAP process, RAP implementers should indicate that there is 
not likely to be any retroactive adjustment unless clear evidence can be shown.  Finally, item 
(c) is a RAP-wide issue, and will be deemed to have been settled with the approval of this 
RAP and then communicated to the affected villagers.     
78. 
In short, disputable cases should be few, even if there is generalized dissatisfaction 
with the delays in the overall case.  At the time this resettlement plan is approved and 
individual compensation contracts are signed, affected individuals will be informed in village 
assemblies of the process for expressing dissatisfaction and to seek redress. The grievance 
procedure will be simple, administered in the first instance at the local level to facilitate 
access, flexible and open to various proofs taking into account the need for speedy, just and 
fair resolution of their grievances. The process for resolving individual grievances will be as 
follows.   
79. 
The Compensation and Development Coordinator will establish case files, 
including copies of the original agricultural counts and claims forms, the original 
photographs taken during the valuation process, and the Excel files of compensation due.  He 
will be available to review these records with individual farmers. 
80. 
The C&D Coordinator will receive any complaint, in writing, about any part of 
the process affecting the individual farmer.  He will respond by clarifying the data at his 
disposition, but saying if need be that any complaint about crop numbers, classification or 
values requires specific evidence about the case. 
81. 
Where evidence is presented, the C&D Coordinator will convene a meeting 
between himself as adviser, the Village authorities of the Complainant’s village, and the 
complainant to seek resolution.  Village authorities may call other parties and witnesses in 
order to be review fully the details of the case:  this step will pay respect to traditional and 
informal mechanisms of dispute resolution in the area.  The village authorities will render a 
judgment in writing as to their opinion, and the judgment will be copied to the Coordinator 
for action or referral to others who may follow up with action to satisfy the judgment of the 
Complainant. 
82. 
If the complainant is not satisfied by the opinion of the majority of village 
officers, he may appeal his complaint to the District level.  The C&D coordinator will set up 
a
meeting of a District land officer and a crops officer, chaired by the District Executive 
Secretary or his designee.  The ANR Conservator will sit as a member of this committee.  
The coordinator will not participate, except to state what prior steps have been taken.  The 
aggrieved farmer will present his case, and may be assisted by others.  This body may also 
call other witnesses.  It will render its judgement in writing, with copies to the complainant 
and the Coordinator, who will follow up if action is to be taken. 
83. 
Any judgment in favor of the Complainant will be satisfied within two months, 
or within one month if the judgment is simply a question of the award of money.  If the 
complainant is not satisfied with the judgment of this District committee, the complainant 
Page  35
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 35 of 55 
may utilize the court system for further complaint.  Records of the actions to satisfy 
judgments will be kept by the District lands office and by the C&D coordinator for the ANR.   
84. 
These mechanisms will be subject to review after one year of the start of 
payment of the final compensation payments.  The ANR Advisory Board, sitting with the 
Village Chairmen and Secretaries, will receive a briefing from the C&D coordinator on the 
effectiveness of the grievance mechanism, and will take appropriate action as needed. 
85. 
RAP Monitoring and Evaluation
.
The arrangements for monitoring this RAP will 
be coordinated with monitoring and evaluation plans for the TFCMP overall.  The system for 
doing this monitoring is currently being revised.  The objective of monitoring arrangements 
will be to: 
to ensure that all compensation due is paid within six months of the approval of this 
activity a supplementary activity of the TFCMP; 
to be able at any moment to report on grievances that have been filed and are either 
in process or resolved; 
to ensure that the process of securing and allocating lands in the lowland areas is 
done expeditiously and effectively for Derema farmers willing to take them up; 
to take steps with the ANR to undertake a final evaluation to determine if the people 
who were affected by the taking of the Derema corridor have been able to, or are 
moving to a position in which they can, restore their income earning capacities and their 
standards of living
11
 
86. 
Among the verifiable key performance indicators (KPIs) of the status of the 
compensation and development issue are the following.  The C&D coordinator will manage 
the KPI system while his contract is in place.  Thereafter, the system will be maintained by 
the Conservator, ANR:   
ƒ
Compensation accounts paid, by number and percentage of all accounts to be paid 
ƒ
Grievances recognized as legitimate, and grievances resolved, by number and by 
percentage of grievances registered 
ƒ
Lists of affected farmers and others in Derema villages who want lowland farm 
plots, and number and percentage of those actually getting permits and starting 
development of those plots 
ƒ
Number of such farm plots ready for registration, registered as taken by Derema 
affected farmers, other Derema farmers, and other ANR buffer zone residents, and 
others   
ƒ
Log of known investments in supplementary livelihood strategies, by type and 
location of those receiving <200,000 TSh compensation, 200,000 <500,000, 
500,000<1 million, >1 million TSh in compensation 
ƒ
Secondary school enrolments in families from five Derema villages, before and 
after compensation 
11
 To begin a long-term tracking system, the C&D coordinator will add files to the compensation 
records that track uses of the compensation money to increase participation in other cash-earning 
opportunities, for instance in the acquisition of new lands whether in the designated lowland areas or 
elsewhere, in ANR related “buffer zone” projects, or in new businesses.  It is realized that the 
baseline does not exist for extensive following up of the cases of all affected people, but enough 
information will be available to understand what affected people are able to do to replace the lost 
spice/fruit lands in Derema. 
Page  36
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 36 of 55 
ƒ
Gender-differentiated responses to surveys on before/after compensation issues 
ƒ
Other measures as may be defined in workshops on this subject, or with the WWF-
funded team that has carried out the two Social Impact Studies of the Derema area 
87. 
Implementation Schedule.  
The schedule for implementation of this RAP depends 
on the availability of funds to address the well-defined program that will be carried out.  It is 
expected that funds will be available around November 2006, but the schedule that follows 
identifies the steps in that program on the basis of a non-specific start date:
 
Figure 2 
Implementation Schedule for RAP 
Date Activity 
Assumptions 
Month 1 
Hire Resettlement and Devel- 
opment Coordinator (RDC)  
Identification of candidates has proceeded as soon as RAP 
is approved; vehicle and other facilities are made available 
to enable work to start 
Month 2 
1) Reconfirm payment schedules 
and amounts, subtracting 2005 
amounts paid from totals due   
2) Transfer all funds to Muheza 
compensation account  
3) Publicize new/final payments 
program in each village 
TFCMP assigns staff to work on schedules until RDC is on 
board.  Financial transfers are made promptly 
 
RDC and WFP monitors visit villages together to 
disseminate final design, respond to questions 
Month 3 
1) Announce program, visit 
villages to sign final accords with 
compensation payees 
2) End of Month, make payments 
Villagers have accepted final program  
 
Checks drawn on Muheza bank, cashable in Muheza or 
through secure “bank on wheels” as done for Songo Songo 
gas pipeline 
Month 4 
RDC works with destination 
villages and District authorities to 
identify definitively land to be 
made available to Derema farmers 
Destination villagers have reconfirmed their acceptance of 
long-term government plan to redistribute unused 
plantation land 
 
Month 5 
1) Farmers begin visits  
 
2)Specialists (crops and extension) 
visit 5 Derema villages to make 
presentations on lowland crop 
options 
RDC has organized transportation and program for visits  
RDC has worked with Agriculture and private sector to 
identify experts to give training on crop options and 
investments responsive to farmer skills, interests, and 
capabilities 
Months 6 - 12 
1) Farmer visits, land purchase 
continues 
2) Alternative livelihood projects 
and farm extension continues 
Land transfers are completed with appropriate documents 
arrange through District, Region 
 
Months 12-24 
1)  Monitoring starts, ends with 
report 
2)  Crops are planted, first harvest 
in lowlands takes place 
Contract has been agreed with WFP to provide impact 
monitoring 
Farmers have taken up new lands, plant and cultivate 
without disturbance or insecurity of tenure 
Month 24 
RDC terminates work with 
completion report 
District authorities have built program into their own 
regular work programs, continue services to farmers 
ANR takes over relations to 5 Derema villages as 
beneficiaries of Amani alternative livelihood projects and 
as participant villages in income redistribution 
Page  37
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 37 of 55 
 
88. 
Budget for RAP implementation
.
The budget for the implementation of the RAP, 
as shown below in Table 5, is heavily loaded on the item of the compensation money itself.  
In addition to that item, money is needed to manage the RAP, ensure the delivery of the 
compensation, and put into place a Compensation and Development Office led by a 
Coordinator who will in turn facilitate other activities necessary to the completion of the 
work, including crucial facilitation by the Muheza District Government.  The following two 
tables show the sources of funds for the compensation and the distribution of funds in the 
overall budget. (It is to be noted that the Government of Finland contribution has been 
pending for some years, and is not guaranteed.) 
 
Table 4:  SOURCES OF FUNDS (in US $) 
 
Timing 
Funding 
Duration 
of work 
(mo) 
Year 1 
Year 2 
TOTAL 
Preparatory work 
  
  
 
Update social survey 
Nov 05 
–
June 06 
CEPF/WWF 
2 
30,000 
  
30,000 
Preparation of RAP 
May/August 2006 
FBD/from 
TFCMP 2 
50,000 
 
 
50,000 
Compensation payments 
 
Compensation payments 
May 2006 
Global Con-
servation Fund  
 350,000 
 
 
350,000 
Compensation payments 
April/May 2005 
Gov Finland 
 
200,000? 
  
200,000? 
Compensation payments 
April/May 2005 
Gov Tanzania 
 
95,000 
  
95,000 
Compensation payments 
October 2006 
WB/TFCMP 
 
1,459,261 
  
1,459,261 
Management 
 
See budget next table 
 
WB/TFCMP 
 
104,600 
86,600 
191,200 
TOTAL 
 
2,288,061 86,600 
2,374,661
 
Page  38
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 38 of 55 
 
Page  39
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 39 of 55 
Table 5:  RAP IMPLEMENTATION BUDGET 
 
ITEM 
Duration 
Months 
$/mo. 
Year 1 
Year 2 
P
articipatory monitoring scheme 
2006- 2008 
8 
10,000 
10,000 
40,000 
Management costs  
 
 
 
 
 
Resettlement & Development 
Coordinator 
2006-2008 
           24 
1,500 
18,000 
18,000 
Office Facilities at ANR 
2006-2008 
     24 
250 
3,000 
3000 
Vehicle (4x4) plus PLMx24 
2006-2008 
24 
1,000 
37,000 
12,000 
Communications 2006-2008 
24 
400 
4,800 
4,800 
5
Motorcycles (@$3000), to 
facilitate Districtt staff:  Land, 
Crops, Forest, Admin + PLM 
2006-2007 
24 
400 
19,800 
4800 
Facilitation of Derema Village 
Govts for Compensation and 
Land Acquisition Exercises 
2006-2008 24 
1000 
12,000 
12000 
Compensation 
 
Total due 
2006-2007 
8 
 
2,184,261 
TOTAL
 
2,288,061
 
86,600
 
GRAND TOTAL       
  
  
  
$  2,374,661 
Page  40
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 40 of 55 
 
ANNEX 1A:  
DETAILED REVENUE ANALYSIS PER CLUSTER OR CROP BASIS  
TAKEN DIRECTLY FROM PROPER CONSULT STUDY,  
WITH SOME CHANGES TO FIRST CROP, CARDAMOM,  
AND SOME FORMAT EDITING TO ENTIRE TABLE
 
1. 0    CARDAMOM
 
Gross income: (per cluster p.a. @ 3 kilo dried product p.a.)……7,200/= 
Less: Operating cost @ 40% 
(see below
)……....…     ….………2,880/= 
Net income for year 3-6……………………………….…………..4,320/= 
 
Net income for years 6-12 is 20% of the proceeding production or 864/=
Crop value…..YP*NI 4,320/-) for the first 3yrs + YP*NI (864 /-) for the next 6 yrs 
(The figure obtained is a proxy for capital value, see end of table, below)) 
Capitalisation rate, (i), adopted is 4.5% , I.e the risk free rate in the Tanzania  
economy 
M1 (matured crop, level one)…Good production and well tended clusters 
Assuming: 
Well tended farm, good land exhaustion, good crop yield 
Good plant population, good spacing of 2.5cmx25cm 
Non- mixed farming; pure stand of cardamom 
Yield greater than 80% (
sourced from research
)
Very few farm qualify under M1; they are found in some parts of Msasa IBC  
and Kwemdimu 
Therefore M1=  5,100/=, derived as above  
M2 (matured crop, level two):  Crop value is rated at 65% of M1 which is 3,315/= 
(a) Average production 60%-80% 
(b) Fair farm attendance 60%-80% 
(c) Average land exhaustion 60%-80%,  
The above factors are aggregated at least 65% 
M3 (matured crop, level three):  Crop value is rated at 40% of M1, or 2,040/= 
(a) Below average production 40%-60% 
(b) Poor stocking of cardamom 40%-60% 
(c) Poor tended farm (wild) 40%-60% 
(d) Old farm that has been abandoned 40%-60% 
The above factors are aggregated at least 40% 
(Most of Kisiwani Village farms fall in this group). 
SEEDLINGS AND OR SAPLING (S)
 
S1: (level one) Cardamom seedlings that are >4-6 months old represent at least 
 
10% of level three (M3) crop value in terms of investment, costs, etc, 
equivalent to Tshs 204 
S2:  (level two) Cardamom seedlings that are >6 to12 weeks represent 5% of  
 
level three crop value or 102/- 
DAY (OR WEEK) OLD SEEDLING/SAPLING  (DOS)
Page  41
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 41 of 55 
 
Page  42
D
e
r
e
m
a
C
o
r
r
i
d
o
r
R
E
S
E
T
T
L
E
M
E
N
T
A
C
T
I
O
N
P
L
A
N
P
a
g
e
4
2
o
f
5
5
A
N
N
E
X
1
b
P
R
O
P
O
S
E
D
D
E
R
E
M
A
F
O
R
E
S
T
C
O
R
R
I
D
O
R
D
E
R
E
M
A
R
E
V
E
N
U
E
Y
I
E
L
D
M
A
T
R
I
X
1
1
3
7
0
2
.
x
l
s
w
i
t
h
c
a
r
d
a
m
o
m
m
o
d
i
f
i
e
d
V
A
L
U
A
T
I
O
N
F
O
R
C
O
M
P
E
N
S
A
T
I
O
N
F
O
R
S
T
A
N
D
I
N
G
C
R
O
P
S
Crop (cluster) 
 
Compensate as per 
 
Rotation age (yrs) 
(Planting to maturity) 
Frequency of harvests 
p.a. 
Total harvest p.a. (kg 
or pc)/ cluster 
Price per kg/pc in Tshs 
Gross Revenue/ cluster 
p.a. 
Operating costs p.a. in 
per cent 
Gross income /cluster 
p.a. 
 
Domestic consumption 
Net income /cluster p.a. 
in Tshs 
 
Net income /cluster 
p.m. in Tshs 
C
R
O
P
V
A
L
U
E
(
Y
P
X
N
I
=
C
V
)
1
E
.
c
a
r
d
a
m
o
m
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
3
3
3
2
4
0
0
7
,
2
0
0
4
0
%
4
,
3
2
0
0
%
4
,
3
2
0
3
6
0
5
,
1
0
0
3
,
3
1
5
2
0
4
0
2
0
4
1
0
2
5
1
2
B
l
a
c
k
p
e
p
p
e
r
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
3
2
2
.
5
1
,
0
0
0
2
,
5
0
0
4
0
1
,
5
0
0
2
0
1
,
0
0
0
8
3
2
,
9
0
0
1
,
1
6
0
N
A
1
1
6
6
3
3
B
a
n
a
n
a
b
u
n
c
h
e
s
1
3
.
5
8
.
0
6
0
0
4
,
8
0
0
3
0
3
,
3
6
0
3
5
1
,
6
8
0
1
4
0
3
,
9
2
0
3
,
0
8
0
N
A
1
1
.
2
2
2
4
6
4
C
o
f
f
e
e
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
2
1
.
0
3
.
0
1
4
0
4
2
0
3
5
2
7
3
0
2
7
3
2
3
N
A
1
,
3
3
6
N
A
5
3
N
A
2
5
C
i
n
n
a
m
o
n
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
2
0
.
5
3
.
0
5
3
0
1
,
5
9
0
4
0
9
5
4
2
0
6
3
6
5
3
1
,
7
7
6
1
,
0
6
5
N
A
7
N
A
2
6
C
l
o
v
e
s
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
3
1
.
0
7
.
0
2
,
5
0
0
1
7
,
5
0
0
4
5
9
,
6
2
5
1
5
7
,
0
0
0
5
8
3
6
0
,
0
0
0
3
6
,
0
0
0
N
A
2
4
0
0
N
A
6
0
7
P
i
n
e
a
p
p
l
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
1
.
0
1
.
0
1
5
0
1
5
0
2
0
1
2
0
6
0
3
0
3
N
A
5
7
N
A
N
A
2
1
8
O
i
l
p
a
l
m
b
u
n
c
h
e
s
5
1
.
0
2
0
.
0
4
0
0
8
,
0
0
0
3
0
5
,
6
0
0
4
5
2
,
0
0
0
1
6
7
1
5
,
2
1
2
8
,
3
6
6
N
A
6
0
8
3
0
1
5
9
S
.
M
a
l
e
y
e
n
s
i
s
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
1
1
0
0
5
5
0
0
1
0
4
5
0
4
5
2
2
5
1
9
N
A
1
,
0
0
0
N
A
4
0
N
A
1
1
0
C
o
c
o
y
a
m
k
i
l
o
g
r
a
m
s
1
1
0
.
8
1
0
0
8
0
1
5
6
8
2
0
5
2
4
N
A
3
7
N
A
7
N
A
1
1
1
J
a
c
k
f
r
u
i
t
p
i
e
c
e
s
5
1
2
0
0
5
1
,
0
0
0
2
5
7
5
0
2
5
5
0
0
4
2
2
,
4
3
3
1
,
4
6
0
N
A
9
7
N
A
3
1
2
M
a
n
g
o
t
r
e
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
0
1
2
0
0
0
4
.
5
9
,
0
0
0
3
0
6
,
3
0
0
4
5
2
,
2
5
0
1
8
8
1
8
,
2
5
0
1
1
,
0
0
0
N
A
7
3
0
N
A
1
8
1
3
C
o
c
o
n
u
t
t
r
e
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
0
4
2
4
0
5
0
1
2
,
0
0
0
4
0
7
,
2
0
0
5
0
1
,
2
0
0
1
0
0
2
3
,
7
5
0
1
4
,
2
5
0
N
A
9
5
0
N
A
2
3
1
4
L
e
m
o
n
t
r
e
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
5
1
4
0
0
1
.
5
6
0
0
2
0
4
8
0
5
5
1
5
0
1
3
N
A
6
6
7
N
A
2
6
N
A
1
1
5
O
r
a
n
g
e
t
r
e
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
5
1
5
0
0
3
1
,
5
0
0
2
0
1
,
2
0
0
4
0
6
0
0
5
0
N
A
2
,
6
7
1
N
A
1
0
6
N
A
3
1
6
M
k
w
e
m
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
2
1
6
0
0
5
3
,
0
0
0
3
0
2
,
1
0
0
4
0
9
0
0
7
5
N
A
1
,
6
9
7
N
A
6
8
N
A
2
1
7
P
a
w
p
a
w
p
i
e
c
e
s
2
2
0
5
0
1
,
0
0
0
1
0
9
0
0
5
0
4
0
0
3
3
N
A
1
,
1
1
0
N
A
4
5
N
A
1
1
8
P
a
s
s
i
o
n
f
r
u
i
t
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
2
5
0
0
2
5
,
0
0
0
4
0
3
,
0
0
0
4
0
1
,
0
0
0
8
3
1
,
8
8
6
1
,
1
3
0
N
A
7
5
N
A
2
1
9
G
u
a
v
a
p
i
e
c
e
s
4
1
3
7
5
0
2
7
,
5
0
0
3
5
4
,
8
7
5
4
5
1
,
5
0
0
1
2
5
5
,
4
4
4
3
,
2
6
6
N
A
2
1
7
N
A
5
2
0
A
v
o
c
a
d
o
t
r
e
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
5
1
2
4
0
5
0
1
2
,
0
0
0
3
0
8
,
4
0
0
4
5
3
,
0
0
0
2
5
0
1
3
,
3
5
0
6
,
6
7
5
N
A
5
3
4
N
A
1
3
2
1
S
u
g
a
r
c
a
n
e
p
i
e
c
e
s
1
1
1
0
2
0
0
2
,
0
0
0
2
0
1
,
6
0
0
4
0
8
0
0
6
7
7
7
0
3
1
N
A
3
1
N
A
1
Page  43
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 43 of 55 
ANNEX 2 
 
DEREMA CORRIDOR 
 
TOTAL REVISED COMPENSATION DUE 
FOR ALL CROPS INVENTORIED, BY VILLAGE  
 
NOT INCLUDING COMPENSATION for inflation 2003-2006 
 
CROP 
È
KISIWANI KAMBAI KWEZITU 
KWEMDIM
U
MSASA IBC 
TOTAL BY 
CROP 
CARDAMOM 
4,610,910 6,025,191 356,439,969 445,802,740 1,230,348,512 
2,043,227,322 
BLACK 
PEPPER 
1,319,975 186 
103,465 
1,572,243 
2,492,447 
5,488,316 
CLOVE 
1,003,200 685,140 6,289,940 1,406,260 72,571,626 81,956,166 
CINNAMON 
96,242 2,300 321,747 143,959 3,655,427 4,219,675 
AVOCADO 
117,480 15,456 1,198,872 
64,535  3,445,390  4,841,733 
BANANA 
3,351,270 200,021 12,983,802  9,108,422  84,669,044 110,312,559 
COCONUT 
0
0
1,900 199,546 
28,050 
229,496 
COCOYAM 
50,563 8,821 948,622 136,312 2,446,925 3,591,243 
COFFEE 
289,745 110,930  2,486,354 
515,872  11,082,512  14,485,413 
GUAVA 
148,644 
7,553 1,280 6,749 66,913 231,139 
JACK FRUIT 
122,815 34,698 
59,284  361,235 
856,515  1,434,547 
KWEME (tree) 
240 5,091 
19,415 
3,462 
76,047 
104,255 
LEMON 
18,148 442 12,527  8,546  20,986  60,649 
MALEYENSIS 
3,920 
0 0 0 
432,409 
436,329 
MANGO 
142,220 85,030 
35,773  511,272 
289,526  1,063,821 
OIL PALM 
794,711 167,590 
42,475  1,230,751 
300,459 
2,435,986 
ORANGE 
318 
0 98,594 18,649 
69,297 176,858 
PASSION 
FRUIT 
0
0
150 0 
1,296 
1,446 
PAWPAW 
2400 0 
0 
2,445 1,136 5,981 
PINEAPPLE 
139 0 
13,276 
5,895 
14,439 
33,749 
SUGAR CANE 
620 0 
6,214 
19,074 
4,577,866 
4,603,774 
VILLAGE 
TOTALS 
12,073,560  7,348,449 381,083,659 461,117,967 1,417,446,822 
2,279,070,457 
Page  44
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 44 of 55 
ANNEX 3 
SAMPLE INVENTORIES OF CROPS 
(FARMER NAMES REMOVED FOR PRIVACY) 
 
FROM PROPER CONSULT INVENTORIES, 2002 
 
NAME OF PEASANT: 
KITONGOJI; IBC-JUU
SN
CROP NAME
LEVEL
QTY
RATE
F/RATE
 R  E  M  A  R  K  S
1 Cardamon
DOS
520
51.00
 
26,520.00
 
NEW  FARM
2 Banana
M
50
3,080.00
 
154,000.00
 
3 Avocado
DOS
50
13.00
 
650.00
 
4 Cinamomum
DOS
400
2.00
 
800.00
 
TOTAL
181,970.00
 
NAME OF PEASANT:
KITONGOJI; MAJENGO
SN
CROP NAME
LEVEL
QTY
RATE
F/RATE
 R  E  M  A  R  K  S
1 Cardamon
M
655
5,100.00
 
3,340,500.00
 
WELL  TENDED
2 Banana
M
50
3,920.00
 
196,000.00
 
3 Cocoyam
S
200
7.00
 
1,400.00
 
TOTAL
3,537,900.00
 
KITONGOJI; MAGODA
SN
CROP NAME
LEVEL
QTY
RATE
F/RATE
T
R
E
M
A
R
K
S
1 Cardamon
S
50
204.00
 
10,200.00
 
WELL TENDED
2 Cardamon
M
87
5,100.00
 
443,700.00
 
3 Cardamon
DOS
120
51.00
 
6,120.00
 
4 Banana
M
13
3,080.00
 
40,040.00
 
5 Banana
S
19
224.00
 
4,256.00
 
6 Cocoyam
S
70
7.00
 
490.00
 
7 Avocado
M
1
6,675.00
 
6,675.00
 
TOTAL
511,481.00
 
Page  45
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 45 of 55 
ANNEX 4  
LIST OF PERSONS CONTACTED  
 
Dar es Salaam 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism 
Felix Mallya, Coordinator, Tanzania Forest Conservation and Management Project 
Evariste Nashanda, Manager, Eastern Arc Forestry Project (GEF) 
Mathias J. Lema, Regional Catchment Forest Manager, Catchment Office, Tanga 
Region
Dr. Neil Burgess, Scientific Adviser, Eastern Arc Forestry Project (UNDP – GEF) 
Ministry of Lands 
Albert Mallya, Legal Adviser 
Proper Consult (Consultants on valuation of Derema crops, 2002) 
Mr. Alec R. D. Rwongezibwa, FRS, MBA, Estate Valuer, EMACK (T) Ltd. 
 
Embassy of Finland  
Veli Juola, Counsellor (Forestry) (outgoing) 
University of Dar es Salaam and WWF 
 
Professor George Jambiya, Geography, UDSM, and Policy Officer, WWF Tanzania 
 
Iddi Mwanyoka, Water Resources Planner 
World Bank 
 
Christian Albert Peter, Senior Forestry Specialist 
Tanga Regional Administration 
Mrs. Gertrude K. Mpaka, Regional Commissioner 
Mr. Gervas Msanga, Regional Executive Secretary 
Mr. Ndihalema Kisheru, Regional Administrative Secretary 
Muheza District Administration 
Mrs. Joyce Mgana, District Commissioner 
Mr. M.T. Mujibhila, District Administrative Secretary 
Mr. Obed. J. Mwasha, District Executive Director 
 
Mr.  Mzo, District Administrative Officer 
Mr. M. Mussa, District Crops Officer 
Amani Nature Reserve 
 
Corodius T. Save, Curator, Amani Nature Reserve 
Mathaya Mbanga Matthew, Director, Tourism, Research and Training, Amani 
Nature Reserve 
Derema Corridor Villages 
Village chairmen, other officers and affected farmers in the following villages: 
 Kisiwani 
Msasa 
IBC 
 
Kwemdimu 
  Kwezitu 
 Kambai 
Page  46
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 46 of 55 
Lushoto District 
Mr. E. Mbara, Lushoto Land Officer
 
Page  47
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 47 of 55 
ANNEX 5 
 
ITINERARY OF CONSULTANCY 
 
25
May 2006  
Arrive in Dar es Salaam 
26
-
31
May
2006 
Meetings with FBD officials, other Tanzanian officials, and donor and 
other stakeholders in Derema Forest Corridor 
1
-
7
June 2006 
Field work in Derema villages, Tanga Regional and Muheza District 
Headquarters 
 
1 June 
Tanga Region – Meet with Regional Administrator and TFCMP 
 
2 June 
Muheza District – Meet with District Administrative Secretary 
 
3 June 
Meeting in Kisiwani village 
 
4 June  
Meeting in Kwemdimu village 
 
5 June  
Muheza District – Meet with DAS, Crops and Land Officers, travel 
through areas of land availability around Msozwe and Mkwajuni 
 
6 June  
Meeting in Msasa IBC village and in Kwezitu Village 
 
7 June  
Meeting in Kambai village 
8
–
28
June 2006 
Report writing in Dar es Salaam 
29
June 2006 
Presentation of results, workshop at FBD Ivory Rooms, DSM 
30
June 2006 
Depart Dar es Salaam 
6
–
13
July 2006 
Discuss report findings with World Bank officials, revise report 
 
Page  48
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 48 of 55 
Annex 6 
Letter of 31/3/1999 from Ministry of Lands to Ministry of Agriculture 
Listing and Assigning Plantations to be used for Muheza farmers
 
Page  49
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 49 of 55 
Annex 6 (continued)
 
Page  50
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 50 of 55 
 
Annex 6 (continued)
 
Page  51
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 51 of 55 
 
Annex 6 (continued)
 
Page  52
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 52 of 55 
Annex 6 (continued)
 
Page  53
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 53 of 55 
Annex 7:  Letter of 31/1/2001 from District Commissioner to Muheza Divisional Secretaries 
setting out terms for facilitating lowland villages to provide 3-acre plots to villagers from 
Amani Nature Reserve area 
 
Page  54
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 54 of 55 
Annex 7 (continued) 
Page  55
Derema Corridor 
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN 
Page 55 of 55 
Annex 8:   
Letter of 9 August 2001 from District Executive Director to respective Villages in lowlands, 
providing lists of Amani area residents seeking ex-plantation land allocation 
 
