E650
November 2002
Environmental and Social Considerations
TANZANIA: Forest Conservation and Management Project
INTRODUCTION
The project has been classified as Category B with respect to its expected enviromnental and social
impacts. The project is not expected to result in significant negative environmental or social impacts. The
project will support the implementation of a series of participatory forestry management activities, which
government has endorsed in its National Forest Program, which are intended to bring about the proper
management of Government Forest Reserves, industrial plantations, forests on village lands, and
community and private forests. As part of this process, provisions will be made to bring about sound
forest management, and when required, the preservation of critical biodiversity habitats. In particular,
areas classified as catchment forest that are important for watershed protection and the Eastern Arc
Montane Forests will be targeted for priority protection and conservation.
Environmental risks are associated with well-known and documented forest management constraints -
encroachment into forest reserves, difficulties in implementing practical sustainable forest management
plans and sometimes ineffective traditional government forest management polices and regulatory
measures. Furthermore, the project will support Government initiatives more fully to involve the private
sector in the management in industrial forest plantations. Social and economic impacts will be assessed
for all plantation forests which are expected to be directly affected by this component of the project,
consultations will be undertaken with all stakeholders. Special attention will be directed at small
sawmillers to ensure they are adequately protected during project implementation. An additional benefit
of the involvement of the private sector is that the creation of an expanded investment climate could
introduce new sawmilling technologies including opportunities to use currently discarded mill waste.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT
A national environmental regulatory and policy framework has been evolving during the last several
years. Currently, two indepenident agencies oversee environimenital assessment and review processes, the
National Environment Management Council (NEMC), a semi-autonomous statutory body, and the
Division of the Environment (DOE) of the Vice-President's Office. The National Environmental Policy
(NEP) of 1997 provides guidance for environmental assessment procedures, including EIA requirements.
These provisions are primarily concerned with development projects and their potential impacts on the
biological and physical environment. However, it is important to point out that currently there is no
comprehensive legislation to implement the NEP policies and there is no empowerment of NEMC or of
DOE to make EIA requirements legally binding.
The national capacity for management and implementation of environmental assessment requirements is
still limited, particularly in light of the nearly complete lack of a regulatory framework. There are no
clearly defined institutional responsibilities for EIA review, approval and enforcement, and an EIA
regulatory framework is usually only introduced on an ad hoc basis in a few protected areas such in the
national parks, marine parks and game reserves. Unfortunately, there is no effective co-ordination and
collaboration among environmental and sector agencies, such as FBD, in this regard.
- 86-FILE COPY



Policies and regulations with respect to                     TableAII A.: Objectives of dr(aft Forest Legislation
environmental assessment related to forest and
biodiversity are based on the National Forest Policy       . encourage and facilitate the active citizen involvement
of 1998 and the National Forest Program of 2001.             in the sustainable planning, management, use and
conservation of forest resources through the
There are plans to formal ize a regulatory framework         development of individual and community rights;
in proposed changes to forestry legislation. These
instruments will provide GOT with a comprehensive          . ensure ecosystem stability through conservation of
sector framework with the objective of bringing about        forest biodiversity, water catchments and soil fertility;
sustainable forest management and protection, and
which recognizes multiple uses and interests in these        resourees to the nosiest possible level of local
resources.                                                   management consistent vith national policies;
Draft forest legislation, which describes the              . ensure the sustainable supply of forest products and
objectives and instruments for managing forest lands,        services by maintaining sufficient forest area under
outlines the need for a well defined and                     efficient, effective and econoe mical management;
comprehensive forest management plan for each              * enhance the quality and improve the marketability of
forest reserve and private forest. Such management          forest products and regulate their export;
plans should include:
* promote coordination and cooperation between the
forest sector and other agencies and bodies in the
*   a description of the biological,                     public and private sectors;
environmental, economic, geological and
cultural resources of the forest, and an          . facilitate greater public awareness of the cultural,
inventory of resource uses;                         economic and social benefits of conserving and
*   a statement of the economic, environmental           increasing sustainable forest cover by developing
programs in training, research and public education~
and social objectives to be achieved in the         and
management of the forest;
*   a description of the surrounding areas and        . enable 'I'anzania to play a full part in contributing
villages and their interaction with the forest;  towards and benefiting from international efforts and
villages and    theireaston        with  the        measures to protect and enhance global biodiversity.
* a description of the areas of land within the
forest reserve in which it is proposed to          Source& Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism.
establish local user zones to facilitate local    Forest Bill (draft). 2001
communities obtaining benefits from the
forest reserve;
*   a description of the local communities residing in the vicinity of the forest and their relationship
to the forest, including their forest resource use;
*   in respect of forests other than village land forest reserves, an for the involvement of the
communities and management of the forest resources;
*   provisions regulating commercial forest exploitation including afforestation and reforestation;
*   provisions directed to forest conservation and preservation, including wild animals and wild
plants;
*   proposals for forest including a management plan; and
*   an identification of financial and human resources needed to implement the management plan
including forest use charges and fees between the various authorities and persons likely to be
involved in the management of the forest.
- 87 -



A key provision of the draft forestry
legislation addresses EIA requirements for any             Table A 11.2: Clnssification of Forests in
legislation                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~draftFrs  eilto
proposed development in forest reserves,                          ,rft Forest Legislation
private forests, or sensitive forest areas      iNationalforests
including watersheds. The law clarifies that all  .  forest reserves;
parties, persons, or organizations in the public  .  nature forest reserves;
or private sector, must prepare and submit to    .   forests on general land other than unoccupied or unused
the FBD Director an environmental impact              villagc land which are not reserved and of which the right of
assessment of the proposed development from  occupancy or a lease has not been granted to any person or
assessment Of the proposed dlevelopment from         body;
independent consultants selected from a list
approved by GOT.                                 Local authorityfbrests
*   local authority forest rescrves;
The list of development activities subject to     .  forests on general land other than unoccupied or unused
village land which are not reserved and of which the right of
environmental assessment inicludes:                  occupancy or a lease or a license has been granted, to the
local authority;
*   commercial logging and forest
industry exceeding five hectares;         Villcigeforests
*   village land forest reserves which are declared or gazetted
* mining developments;                           community forest reserves created out of village forests;
*   road construction or the laying of       .   forests which are not reserved wvhich are on village land and
pipelines;                                   of which the management is vested in the village assembly;
*   the construction of dams, power          Privateforests
stations, electrical or                  .   forests on village land held by one or more individuals
telecommunication installations;             under a customary right of occupancy;
*   the construction of a building or group  .    forests on general or village land of Nvhich the right of
of buildings for purposes other than         occupancy or a lease has been granted to a person or persons
the management of a forest reserve on         or a partnership or a corporate body or a Non-Governmental
an area of land exceeding one hectare         Organization or any other body or organization.
or such area as may be prescribed; and
*   agricultural, aquacultural or horticultural development on an area of land exceeding five hectares
or such area as may be prescribed.
LAND TENURE AND SOCIAL ISSUES
Comprehensive revisions to Tanzania's land legislation were recently enacted by Parliament, comprised
of the Land Act of 1999 and the Village Land Act of 1999. These laws define modern constructs of
customary land rights and if and how compensation is to proceed when land is expropriated. Tanzanian
legislation is emphatic in declaring that any person whose right of occupancy, recognized long-standing
occupation, or customary use of land is revoked or otherwise interfered with to their detriment by the
State is entitled to compensation as defined by full and fair pay. Furthermore, the Land Act sets out
detailed terms for compensation under the following considerations: market value of the real property,
disturbance allowance, transport allowance, loss of profits or accommodation, cost of acquiring or getting
the subject land, any other cost loss or capital expenditure incurred to the development of the subject land,
and interest at the market rate.
A significant portion of the Village Land Act details how people may secure their customary land rights.
The customary land right may be registered and titled to an individual, spouse, clan, group or to an entire
community. The process of adjudicating, registering and issuing title deeds over village land is devolved
to the community, and elected Village Councils become the Land Manager through an elected Land
Committee.
- 88 -



These modern forest and land laws provide the framework for the rights of citizens to create their own
reserves, to manage central and local Government reserves and to sustain customary and granted access
and use rights. Within this regulatory framework are specific rights and processes available to individuals
and/or groups affected by the declaration of national forest or local forest reserves for proper
compensation based on well-defined consultation and investigation procedures.
Other legislation provides for mitigating social and economic impacts whicih might be an outcome of the
loss of employment by current employees of FBD (a possible impact of involving the private sector in
management of industrial plantations). GOT has been engaged in numerous privatization procedures
during the past decade and has established transparent provisions for reducing the civil service work
force under such initiatives. The Parastatal Sector Reform Commission (PSRC), responsible for these
undertakings, has established norms for determining what will happen to the work force, how many and
what jobs would be redundant. At the same time, terms for retrenchment, separation and redeployment are
defined.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARD ISSUES
The key safeguard issues which require evaluation in this project are summarized here. The applicable
safeguards are defined in OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP/GP 4.36 Forestry, OP/BP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement and OP/BP 4.04 Natural Habitats. This section summarizes the important
triggers and mechanisms in the project for achieving these policy objectives.
The adequacy of implementing institutions to address environmental management - OP/BP 4.01
Although the shortcomings of a national environmental management and regulatory framework have been
highlighted, the forest sector has a strong assortment of provisions to address virtually all potential
environmental concerns that which arise as a result of this project. These are specifically contained in the
relevant forest sector policy, national program and draft law. In aggregate, Tanzania's forest policy
framework is one of the most constructive and forward looking in Africa.
Financing commercial logging operations or tlte purchase of logging equipmentfor use in primary
tropical moistforests - OP/GP 4.36
The project will not be financing any commercial logging in natural forests. The project will be
supporting commercial operations only in plantation forests. These forests consist of eucalyptus, cypress,
pine and teak - most of which were established over the last 30 years. The current standing crop has a
history going back decades on land that was never covered by tropical moist forest, but was primarily
grassland. The sixteen plantation forest blocks covered by the project will continue to undertake
silvicultural practices including harvest and replanting. Participatory forest management plans will allow
for expansion of village and community based plantation woodlots, but only with management plans that
ensure protection of sensitive, biologically important and watershed catchments.
Use of a sector-wide approach forforest management - OP/GP 4.36
The National Forest Policy, National Forest Program, draft forestry legislation, and techinical guidelines
all constitute essential components of a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector in Tanzania. All of
the Bank policy commitments have been addressed by GOT and include: adoption of policies and a legal
institutional framework for forest management; adoption of an appropriate forestry conservation and
development plan; use of social, economic and environmental assessments of commercial forests; setting
- 89 -



aside compensatory preservation forests; and establishmenit of institutional capacity to implement and
enforce these commitments.
Protection offorest areas that are considered critical natural habitats and preservation and sustainable
use offorests of high ecological value - OP/GP 4.36, OP/BP 4.04
The project proposes to support a number of activities within its three components that will adhere to
forest sector provisions for identification, protection and management of critical habitats. These include,
in particular, catchments and the Eastern Arc Montane Forests. Miombo woodlands, an important and
widely distributed and relatively abundant forest ecosystem, and will continue supplying woodfuel and
other forest supplies to adjacent communities. Unlike other more fragile forest types, miombo woodlands
are resilient to sustainable harvesting due to their regenerative capacity. Forest management plans to be
promoted by FBD will contribute to increasing the viability of these woodlands. The participatory forest
management approach advocated in the project also provides for local communities and forest users to
identify and manage, based on their own needs, ecologically important forest areas.
Stakeholder consultation includling the private sector and local people inforest management - OP/GP
4.36
Provisions for stakeholder consultations are evident across the three project components. For National
Forests, Local Authority Forests, Village and Community Forests, and Private Forests, the basic premise
for future sustainable use is the development of forest management plans that are defined by a stakeholder
involved process. FCMP has specified particular provisions for ensuring that all stakeholders, from the
private sector to local people, are included in the development of forest management plans.
Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement as it applies in particular to encroachment inforest
reserves - OP/BP 4.12
MNRT has developed a set of detailed guidelines for community based forest management which define
methods for defining forest reserve boundaries, identifying encroachment problems, consulting with
offenders and establishing fines and provisions for getting such offenders off designated lands. The Land
Act also contains specifications for ensuring that peoples rights are duly respected and that in cases where
land appropriation is required, due compensation is provided. Measures for appeals and investigationis are
also defined.
Lastly, the Government has reiterated that involuntary resettlement would not be carried out in
conjunction with any project implementation activity. Government has also agreed that in the unforeseen
event that involuntary resettlement becomes necessary in the course of project implementation, a detailed
resettlement plan (including any compensation for lost livelihood) would be completed and subject to
IDA review well in advance of any resettlement actions associated with any of the project components.
Other issues
The project will finance the construction of a new HQ building for FBD. The proposed construction site
is a parking area under the immediate control and use of the FBD at the so-called 'Ivory Rooms' facility.
No resettlement is envisaged as an outcome, though a bus stop will be relocated to an adjacent location to
allow access to the new building.
- 90 -



IMPLEMENTATION OF PROJECT ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS
Participatory forest management
A national strategy and program for participatory forest management has been developed which addresses
key safeguard issues. These measures constitute a comprehensive approach to sustainable forest
management and multiple resource use, including preservation of critical forest and special biologically
important areas. The emphasis in recent GOT policy and legislation is that central ministry control is no
longer the only administrative process. Government decentralization has continued over the years to the
extent that local participation in management and administration of forest resources is a principal
objective. Overall, the essential ingredients of participatory forest management in Tanzania are that it:
*  reflects priorities within the sector for community based forest management;
*  balances the need for protection, resource extraction and sustainable use;
*  acknowledges that specific forest uses requires stakeholder inputs;
*   identifies critical forest habitats requiring strict protection;
*  provide for the community and other stakeholders to undertake that protection;
*   makes provisions for national and local management;
*  allows for joint forest management between government and local communities in certain cases.
The project will support the enabling framework for the establishmenit of Village Forest Reserves under
the management of local Village Councils (as well as other private and community forest constructs as
defined in policy).
Simply because of their much greater extent, these Reserves will be established primarily in miombo
woodlands. Miombo is characterized by (among other things) its rapid regenerative capacity, and low
biodiversity. Miombo tends to be found in relatively flat areas, and virtually all miombo in Tanzania has
been heavily modified by human use. The literature suggests that the extensive areas which are now
miombo, in central Tanzania, were under cultivation 150 years ago, prior to the Ngoni invasions. Much
miombo which was cleared during the establishment of Ujamaa villages in the 1960s is has been rapidly
regenerating, and accounts for significant new areas of woodland. The establishment of VFRs in miombo
woodland areas is unlikely to pose any significanlt environmental risk, or any risks whichi cannot be
mitigated through natural regeneration.
The establishment of VFRs in forests of more significant ecological important is consistenit with the GEF
Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation, and specifically with the objectives of GEF
Operational Programs 3 and 4 on Forest Ecosystems and Mountain Ecosystems. Consistent with these
objectives, the project will provide finance for the creation and strengthening of participatory and co-
management schemes to build support and ownership for biodiversity conservation, develop socio-
economic activities to reconcile biodiversity conservation with human needs, identify processes which are
likely to have significant adverse impacts on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, and
support capacity building efforts while focusing primarily on a moulitaini tropical forest ecosystem that is
at risk.
Government's Guidelines for the establishment of VFRs emphasize the need to raise awareness at the
local level about the potential for multiple resource use, provide guidance for the identification of specific
management use zones, recommend the development of a protection process when it is required, clarify
that VFRs will have legal status, and also outline conflict resolution procedures. Establishment of VFRs
is a decision taken by the village, and social impacts are determined by the village, and compensated
withiln the framework of the village's operation. Government is responsible for providing technical
support for resource use zoning and mapping, and for providing a generic safeguards checklist for all new
-91-



forest reserve areas - Village Forest Reserve, Community Forest Reserve, Village Forest management
Area- whicih are thought to contain critical ecosystems. The project will provide specific support for
implementation of all of these measures.
Involvement of the private sector in industrial plantation management
The large forests of Tanzania include natural forests and plantations which cover only a fraction of the
total forest area of 33.6 million hectares. The total area of forest plantations is relatively small and
comprises both state-managed industrial plantations and village, farm and private company plantations.
State plantations are distributed within 16 plantation areas. Sao Hill is the most important plantation area,
followed by Meru/Usa, North Kilimanjaro and West Kilimanjaro plantations. These four plantation areas
cover altogether more than 80 percent of the growing stock in state-managed plantationis. Sao Hill alone
covers about 50 percent of the total state plantation area.
Many individual forest plantations under state control were established without clear management
objectives. In the early 20i' century and later in the 1950s trees were planted mainly to provide long term
timber supply, to act as buffer zones for natural forests and to protect waterslheds. Plantations were
established for industrial purposes in the 1950s and 1960s but only on a small scale and without linking
management to the development of forest industries. Larger scale industrial plantation development
started only in the mid-1970s when the Sao Hill plantations were greatly expanded to provide raw
material for the proposed paper mill at Mufindi.
Farmer and community tree planting has taken place throughiout the country but particuilarly in Central
and West Tanzania e.g. in Njombe and Mufindi districts. Forest plantationi by the private sector is a
relatively new development in the country with several operations initiated in the 1990s by the
Commonwealth Development Corporation and more recently by private Norwegian investors. Specific
measures that address safeguard concerns are highiligilted below.
Table A 11.3: Elements of thle EIA Processfor Plantations in  EIAs for dlesignated plantations
Environmentally Important Habitats
Objective:                                           The project proposes to support the
.   Ensure that environmental issues are considered as part of  involvement of the private sector in industrial
plantation management plan.                      plantation management through three pilot
*   Ensure that environmental impacts are reduced or  schemes (private management of a selected
minimized.                                       industrial plantation, co-management of an
*   Solicit feedback from affected stakeholders      industrial plantation which brings an industrial
Actions:                                             plantation with multiple stakeholders under
*   Review the current biophysical status of the plantation.  commercial management, community-based
*   Assess the potential environmental impact to critical or  plantation management for areas which cannot
sensitive habitats associated with the management plan.  be managed commercially either by private
*   Identify mitigation or protection measures.      companies or by the state but which have
Party Responsiblefor Mitigation:                     potential to provide benefits to communities.)
*   Leaseholder                                      Pilot areas are to be identified during the early
*   TFS with Technical Support from regional Catchment and  stages of project implementation.
Forestry Officers
Verification:                                        Proposed pilot areas will be inventories and
*   Environmental Assessment Statement/Report        map. The result will be the demarcationi and
*   Environmental audit/inspection by TFS            establishment of plantation boundaries,
_including identification and mapping of areas
to be excluded from cutting such as critical watersheds and areas containing important natural habitats. A
- 92 -



standard assessment and documentation process will be developed to accomplish this objective. When
appropriate, mitigation or protection measures will be identified and implemented.
Socio-economic studies
There has been some concern that the involvement of the private sector will have serious economic
impacts on small sawmillers and on plantation-adjacent communities. The sawmilliig industry is an
important source of employment and revenue generationi for local communities. Wood products are sold
for building material, poles and other associated enterprises such as furniture making. Each pilot
plantation will develop general socio-economic information to portray the social, economic and social
service instruments within surrounding communities. The information to be collected will include:
*  Community/village profiles that include population statistics, demographics, overview of labor
force, employment opportunities and services;
*  a description of each small to medium sawmill includinig equipment, labor force, daily volume of
production, sources of wood supply, clients and or end product markets;
*  a summary of sawmill operator issues regarding supply and /or production problems,
opportunities and potential solutions; and
*  an overview of economic situation in each community.
The information will be incorporated into any social impact mitigation plans, as relevant, for individual
plantation areas posed for PSI.
Stakeholder participation in plantation management
The project will support the adoption of participatory plantationi management. This will require an
acceptance of certain responsibilities and changes in the roles of the various stakeholders in forest
management. The village, the state, and the private sector will have to cooperate and work with each other
if participatory or joint forest management is to succeed. The following actions will be undertaken to
facilitate success:
*  clarify through contractual arrangement as appropriate the respective roles of communities, state
and industry in forest management and protection;
*  establish mechanisms to ensure that the expectations of respective partners regarding plantation
management is understood by everyone;
*   strengthen the organizational and technical capacity of villagers in resource management;
*   integrate plantation management related activities with other village land uses and development
activities;
*  recognize traditional/customary rights and possible claims to land based on traditional village
boundaries (if such situations exist);
*  develop local conflict resolution mechanisms for situations requiring consideration of different
stakeholder objectives.
Encroachment in plantation or other reservedforest areas and
issues with respect to involuntary resettlement
Government has established several mechanisms to reduce the problem of encroachmenit in reserved
forest lands, including boundary demarcation, patrols, voluntary resettlement and the implementation of
benefit sharing schemes for communities living in buffer zones around the forests. Many of these
measures have also been applied to plantation forests as well. However, a shift to havinig non-forest
- 93 -



Department staff involved in some of these sensitive matters will require establishinig good lines of
communication between the plantation operators and local community stakeholders.
The Government has confirmed that involuntary resettlement will not be carried out in conjunction with
any activity in this project, and such policy is expected to be applied in the plantation forest lands. Many
of the plantation forests have individuals living on the border, and at times, withini the forest who as
Forest Department employees serve as forest guards. Each plantation management plan will identify such
individuals and indicate how these persons will be effected during the privatization process.
Production waste management
An issue related to the development of industrial operations around plantation areas whicih could benefit
from project activities relates to the accumulation of commercial wood-based wastes. It is common
practice in many sawmill operations to dump and/or burn these byproducts, resulting in deleterious
environmental impacts and inefficient use of woody biomass. Use of this biomass for alternative products
such as blocks, fuel and or other products is uncommon. Several operators expressed the desire for
technical assistance to help identify viable alternatives to these practices, and looked to the project for
providing possible solutionls from experts outside the coulitry.
Eastern Arc Conservation and Management: catchment forests and critical and sensitive habitats
Specific activities will be undertaken, with GEF support, within the Uluguru mountains which are both
"catchment forests" as defined by recent legislation and high mountain forests of unique biodiversity
value. As such, this component of the project will have the challenge of applying the new GOT joint
forest management policy, which recognizes the involvement of local communities or NGOs in the
management and conservation of forests and forest lands. The project will strive to meet the needs of
different stakeholder groups in this region through a combination of initiatives that will ensure protection
of the Catchment Forest Reserves, especially those areas with high biodiversity and hydrological values.
It is anticipated that some degree of resource use will occur but that this will be balanced with
conservation and protection.
Other issues
MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
An outline safeguard monitoring plan has been developed to ensure that safeguard provisions are
adequately implemented and sustained. The monitoring program will be further developed, and will
indicate how well each of the components is implementing the key provisions defined previously. The
monitoring plan will define indicators for measurement, methods to be used, frequency of measurements,
detection limits, and monitoring responsibilities. The plan will be implemented withini the overall context
of institutional reforms in the Forest and Beekeeping Department. The plan will include a description of
how reviews of selected issues of concern will be undertaken. A simple and pragmatic collection of
monitoring indicators is provided below.
The safeguard indicators and monitoring plan will be incorporated into the overall project monitoring
plan as described in the PAD. Consequently, the MNRT will be the ultimate GOT information focal
point. The Bank will include in the project supervision plan the participation of an environmental
specialist in selected missions, the Mid-Term Review and in the Implementation Completion Report. This
specialist will review progress in implementation of the project safeguard provisions.
- 94 -



Table A11.4: Monitoring Compliance witlh Environmental and Social Safeguards
Component/     Safeguard Issue    Monitoring Indicator  Responsibility  Frequency
Sub-                                                    for Monitoring
component                                               and Mitigation
Institutional  * Encroachment     * Community           FBD            Annual survey/report
reform:         problems in         complaints to FBD
Participatory   specific forests  * Claims filed agailst
Forest         * Resource use and   FBD
Management      extraction without  * Legal actions against
stakeholder        citizens by FBD
consensus
Involvement    * FBD employees    * Grievances filed    FBD monitors   Annual survey
of the private  not provided        against FDB or mill  performance of
sector in       adequate            owner               private sector  Parastatal Sector
industrial      compensation      * Mill closures, worker  partners    Reform Commission
plantation     * Small mill        layoffs, sale of                    Reports
management      operators           operations
experience        * ManagemTent plans                  Socio-economic
econoni ic          completed and                      survey and
downturn           reviewed                            privatization reports
* No logging of high                                     for pilot plantationis
forests
Conservation   * Modification or  * Number of           FBD and NGO    Catchment Forestry
and             deforestation of    unauthorized        partners        Project Reports
Management      critical habitats  incursions into
of the Eastern                      protected forest zones             Uluguru Mountains
Arc Mountain                      * Forest change as                   Biodiversity
forests                             detected through                   Conservation Project
aerial photography or               Reports
other remote sensing
- 95 -



