Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3604 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Forest Conservation and Management  Project)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  March 13, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3604 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 13, 2002, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower has, under its National Forest Policy of March 1998, and its 
National Forest Program of November 2001, clearly stated its commitment to develop alternative 
forest management and conservation regimes, financing mechanisms, as well as to establish 
nature reserves in areas of high biodiversity value and to integrate local institutions and 
communities in forest conservation and management;
(C)
the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
(GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF 
Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF, to provide additional 
assistance towards the financing of Part C of the Project, and that such assistance would be 
stipulated under the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement (GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement) to be concluded at a later date between the Borrower and the Bank; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below, with the modifications set forth below (the 
General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and the 
existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as paragraphs 
(13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 
of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and 
‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.”; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
Page  3
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“EAMCEF” means the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund, 
a non-governmental organization legally established and operating under a Trust Deed dated 
June 6, 2001 pursuant to the Borrower’s Trustees’ Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) of 1956;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the eligible categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“FBD” means the Forestry and Beekeeping Division of MNRT (as hereinafter 
defined);
(e)
“fiscal year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which begins on July 1 and ends 
on June 30 of the following year;
(f)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(g)
“Independent Auditors” means auditors of the Borrower’s Office of the 
Controller and Auditor General or an auditor/auditing firm appointed by the Controller and 
Auditor General to execute independent audits on his behalf;
(h)
“MNRT” means Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism, the Borrower’s 
Ministry responsible for natural resources and tourism;
(i)
“MOF” means Ministry of Finance, the Borrower’s Ministry responsible for 
finance;
(j)
“NFP Steering Committee” means the National Forest Program Steering 
Committee established and operating pursuant to the laws of the Borrower;
(k)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual, to 
be adopted pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (a), for implementation of all the 
components of the Project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, and referred to 
Page  4
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and containing, 
inter alia
, disbursement and 
procurement arrangements, work plans, training plans, the monitoring and performance 
indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and procedures to be used for the purposes 
of implementation of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in consultation with 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(n)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated May 19, 2000 and May 
20, 2000 between the Borrower and the Association;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this 
Agreement; and
(p)
“TFS” means Tanzania Forest Service, a proposed specialized executive agency 
responsible for natural forests, woodlands and industrial plantations, to be established in 
accordance with the laws of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to twenty-four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
24,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the 
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date 
and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
(c)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007, or such later date as the 
Page  5
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semi-annually 
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15, commencing March 15, 2012 and ending 
September 15, 2041. [Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
September 15, 2021, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount. [Each installment to and including 
the installment payable on ____________________, ____ shall be one and one-fourth percent 
(1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half 
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
Page  6
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to 
in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
MNRT with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate environmental, 
administrative, financial and economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the works, 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
Page  7
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this AgreementAgreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution for the 
financing of the Project:
(a)
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project 
Account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
deposit into the Project Account by September 30, 2002, an initial contribution 
of $50,000;
(c)
thereafter replenish said account up to an amount of $80,000 at the end of each 
quarter of the fiscal year until the completion of the Project, or whenever its balance shall be less 
than $50,000; and 
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the 
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the 
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
Page  8
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
Independent Auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association 
for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the 
Borrower, not later than eighteen months after the Effective Date,
 
or
such later date as the 
Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
Page  9
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a 
Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Borrower’s National  Forestry Policy dated March, 1998, has been amended, 
suspended, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project; 
(b)
the Borrower’s Trustees’ Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) and the Trust Deed dated 
June 6, 2001, establishing the EAMCEF, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the Project; and
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any loan 
or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the Program 
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
Page  10
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Program are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has established a financial management and accounting system 
acceptable to the Association; and
(c)
the Borrower has appointed to MNRT a Project Accountant, with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  11
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile
TREASURY
41329
(255) 222 117790
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477 6391
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Page  12
By
/s/ Mustafa Nyang’anyi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Mary Barton-Dock
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works
4,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2)
Goods
3,300,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
Page  13
(3)
Consultants’
6,700,000
100%
services and Audits
(4)
Training
4,800,000
100%
(5)
Incremental operating costs
3,900,000
90%
(6)
Refund of Project 
500,000
Amount due pursuant to 
Preparatory Advance
Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
1,400,000
_________
TOTAL
24,600,000
========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and and
(c)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means building, equipment and vehicle 
maintenance costs, fuel, office supplies, building rental charges, utilities, and 
telecommunications costs, Project support staff,
 
but
excluding salaries of officials of the 
Borrower's civil service. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) civil works under contracts not exceeding $50,000 
equivalent each; (b) goods under contracts not exceeding $30,000 equivalent each; (c) consulting 
firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent each; (d) individual consultants under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) training and incremental operating 
costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. 
Page  14
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars a 
special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal 
on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. For each payment made by the Borrower out 
of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), 
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule 1.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account, or (ii) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
Page  15
6.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Association 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
7.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified 
by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association, provide such additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $500,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
Page  16
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
for withdrawals of said Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into said Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed said Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
for replenishment of said Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into said Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into said Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of said Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into said special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of 
the said Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions , shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the said Special Account’s 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to said Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the said Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of said special Account’s Eligible Categories.
Page  17
2.
Each application for the withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the 
amount which the association has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, 
that the amount deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management 
Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed the amount of $3,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in the establishment of a framework 
for long-term sustainable management and conservation of its forest resources by strengthening 
the role of all stakeholders, that is, individuals, local institutions and communities and the private 
sector in management and conservation of forests.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Supporting Institutional Change and Improving Service Delivery
1.
Establishment of the TFS as a specialized executive agency responsible for protection 
and management of forests, and development and management of individual plantations 
including: (a) change management in FBD; (b) capacity building for administration and 
management; and (c) strengthening policy and planning services and capital investment in 
infrastructure, all through the provision of technical advisory services, training, acquisition of 
goods and equipment. 
2.
Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands through the development of 
alternative revenue collection mechanisms and monitoring systems to improve rates of collection 
including: (a) improving non-tax revenue administration; (b) redesigning a revenue collection 
system; (c) centralizing revenue collection and accounting; and (d) governance information and 
social marketing, through the provision of technical advisory services, training, acquisition of 
goods and equipment.
3.
Improving service-delivery mechanisms for participatory forests and woodland 
management by: (a) facilitating the establishment of village forest reserves; (b) encouraging 
woodland management by individual communities and through joint forest management building 
on experiences piloted in earlier operations through support to existing participatory forest 
management initiatives and capacity for new initiatives; (c) provision of the required legal, 
technical and environmental guidance; (d) working with the local government reform process to 
Page  18
build capacity to manage a wider program of participatory forest management through local 
government; and (e) networking and information sharing and monitoring activities; all through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training, acquisition of goods and equipment.
Part B
:
Private Sector Involvement in the Management of Industrial Plantations
1.
Improving the plantation resource information base and management planning capacity 
through: (a) the carrying out of aerial photography, interpretation, mapping and indicative 
inventories of around 40,000 hectares of state-owned plantations; (b) the carrying out of a rapid 
socio-economic assessment to identify key stakeholders, the concerns thereof, and expectations; 
(c) the development of a plantation database for management purposes; (d) preparation of basic 
guidelines for plantation management and establishing parameters for monitoring commercial 
plantation operations; (e) preparation of basic growth and yield tables for key species relying on 
existing data; (f) the carrying out of preliminary estimates of growing stock and allowable cut; 
and (g) the strengthening of the capacity of staff in selected areas, all through the provision of 
technical advisory services, training, acquisition of goods and equipment.
2.
Strengthening institutional support for private sector involvement through the creation of 
an enabling institutional and market environment for private sector involvement in plantation 
development and management, all through the provision of technical advisory services, training, 
acquisition of goods and equipment. 
3.
Carrying out a pilot program of alternative management of selected industrial plantations 
through, 
inter alia
: (a) the development of leasing or concession arrangements for involving the 
private sector in plantation management; (b) the development of co-management arrangements; 
and (c) designated community management for plantations, all through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training, the acquisition of goods and equipment.
4.
Establishment of a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation in order  to determine 
performance indicators for the operation of the pilot program referred to in B.3 above, through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training, the acquisition of goods and equipment.
Part C
:
Eastern Arc Forests Conservation and Management
1.
Operation of EAMCEF as a biodiversity conservation and sustainable financing 
mechanism for tropical high forest conservation in the Borrower’s territory, through the 
provision of technical advisory services, training, acquisition of goods and equipment.
2.
Strengthening institutional support services for forest biodiversity conservation through 
the provision of technical advisory services, training, the acquisition of goods and equipment. 
* * *
Page  19
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007.December 31, 2000
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member countries” 
and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to “Participating 
Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to qualify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $150,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Page  20
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Works estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods and equipment estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office equipment including fax machines, printers, laptop computers and vehicles, 
estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$300,000, may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of 
the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
Page  21
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a) 
With respect to the first three contracts for civil works irrespective of value and 
thereafter, each contract estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and 
(b) 
With respect to the first three contracts for goods under National Competitive 
Bidding procedures, irrespective of value, and thereafter, each contract estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part 2A 
(the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  22
1.
Single Source Selection
Services may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $100,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
Page  23
given.
(d)
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) above the 
Association shall carry out a prior review of the terms of reference and qualifications in respect 
of all contracts both for consulting firms and individuals.
(e)
The following will also be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval: (i) each contract for the employment of consultants under single source selection 
procedures; (ii) the contract for financial audit of the Project; and (iii) training.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Project Implementation Manual 
(a)
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Project 
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, setting out details 
of all procedures and guidelines (including procurement and/or contract management procedures) 
to be followed in the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or waive any position of the Project Implementation Manual if, in the opinion of the 
Association, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.
Implementation of the Project 
(a)
The Borrower shall, within twenty-four (24) months after the Effective Date, 
establish and operate TFS as an autonomous institution responsible for protection and 
management of forests, and development and management of individual plantations. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain the NFP Steering Committee. The NFP Steering 
Committee shall be responsible for overall guidance of the Project, and shall be comprised, 
inter 
alia
,
of representatives from MNRT, MOF, President’s Office, Planning and Privatization, FBD, 
donor representation, and other representation as the Borrower shall deem necessary. 
Page  24
(c)
The Borrower shall ensure that no involuntary resettlement would occur as a 
result of the Project and in the event that this should occur, the Borrower shall ensure that a 
resettlement plan satisfactory to the Association is adopted and implemented.
(d)
The Borrower shall within three (3) months after the Effective Date appoint and 
thereafter maintain in position a senior forestry officer who shall be responsible, 
inter alia
,
for 
the daily management of the Project.
3.
Work Programs; Review
(a)
the Borrower shall: (i) not later than three months before the beginning of each 
fiscal year, furnish to the Association for approval a draft annual work plan which shall include, 
inter alia
,
a
procurement plan and budget for the Project; and (ii) by June 30
 
of
each year, 
furnish to the Association the final annual work plan as approved by the Association, and carry 
out the activities for the year in question on the basis of such work plan;
(b)
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, carry out 
each annual work program in a manner satisfactory to the Association;  and
(c) 
the Borrower shall, on every June 30
 
and
 
December 31 of each year, furnish to 
the Association semiannual reports, including financial information on Project implementation.
4.
Progress Reports and  Performance Indicators
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement: 
(i) the carrying out by the Borrower of the Project; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, no later than September 30 of each year, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on: (i) 
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project, during the period preceding the date of 
said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project; and (ii) the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
and
(c)
review with the Association by December 31 of each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
Page  25
SCHEDULE 5
Key Performance Indicators
Target Date
(a)
A functioning TFS is established with clearly 
December 31, 2004
defined service delivery functions and 
responsibilities with regard to natural forests, 
woodlands, and industrial plantations. 
(b)
Significant areas of natural forest and woodlands
June 30, 2007
are under effective management as an outcome of 
partnerships and initiatives with multiple partners 
(primarily communities and local governments).
(c)
A range of mechanisms for improving revenue 
June 30, 2004
collection involving partners such as the Tanzania 
Revenue Authority and/or the private sector
are tested and implemented; time-bound forest 
revenue collection targets are established 
and achieved; and effective mechanisms for 
sharing revenues with villages are put in place.
(d)
An institutional framework consistent with overall
June 30, 2006
civil service reforms is in place which enables 
Government to undertake forest biodiversity 
conservation initiatives, in particular in the Eastern 
Arc Mountains; institutional capacity to do so is 
strengthened.
(e)
The modalities for the establishment of a 
June 30, 2005
sustainable financial mechanism for conservation 
of Eastern Arc mountain forests are developed 
and implemented.
(f)
A framework for the private sector 
June 30, 2006
participation in the management of 
industrial plantation is established,
including guidelines, incentives, regulatory
monitoring and control mechanisms; and three 
Page  26
pilots operations are in place and
have been evaluated.
