Report No. PIC5397
Project Name            Madagascar-Urban Infrastructure Project, AGETIP II (+
Region                           Africa Region
Sector                           Urban Development
Project ID                       MGPE48697
Borrower                         Government of Madagascar
Implementing Agency              AGETIPA
Zaza Ramandimbiarison
Directeur General
31, rue Kasanga
B.P. 8590 - Antananarivo- 101
Madagascar
Fax:(261-2) 330 88
Tel: (261-2) 330 84
Date this PID was prepared       April 15, 1997
Date PID updated                 June 16, 1997
Projected Appraisal Date         May 1997
Projected Board Date             June 1997
Country and Sector Background
With about 70t of its population living in poverty and with a GDP
of about US$230 per capita growing at a mere 2t in real terms,
Madagascar is among the poorest countries in the world. Two decades
of ill advised economic policies have blocked economic growth at
various intervals and set the country back for many years. While
stabilization measures and structural reforms have helped,
Madagascar still remains steeped in poverty.
Clearly, the Government's main objective is to steadily reduce the
incidence of poverty over the next 20 years, mainly by achieving
ambitious economic growth rates. Such high growth will require
opening up to foreign investment and tourism. Provision and
maintenance of the basic infrastructure necessary for fostering
investments has, hence, become a Government priority.
However, so far the management of contracts for urban works and
maintenance by public sector entities has been inefficient and
plagued by cost and time overruns. The ongoing Urban Works Project,
which is focused in Antananarivo, has been effective in
demonstrating the effectiveness of the delegated contract
management approach while improving infrastructure throughout the
city and achieving low administrative costs (less than 4t of
investment costs). The Government is now interested in encouraging
the use of the delegated contract management system outside of the
capital and introducing efficiencies in other regions of the
country and in other sectors.



Project Objectives
The proposed project is expected to create employment, improve the
efficiency of local public works and build private sector capacity
by establishing a regional capacity for delegated management for
small-scale works.
Project Description
The project includes a program for improvement of infrastructure in
four to six cities as well continuation of works in Antananarivo
and technical and sectoral support for public institutions and SMEs.
Benefits will include improved roads, drainage and other
infrastructure in Antananarivo and regional towns. Reduced traffic
congestion and flooding would benefit all population groups.
Establishment of a regional capacity for efficient delegated
contract management of urban infrastructure and other types of
investment such as inter-city roads, schools and health clinics,
would be a long-term benefit. The project would generate about
25,000 man months of employment to benefit the urban poor during
implementation.
Project Financing
The project financing will be secured through a proposed IDA Credit
of US$35 million, and local and Central Government contribution of
about US$10 million.
Project Implementation
Works will be contracted through a delegated contract management
system already in use under the ongoing Antananarivo Urban Works
Project (AGETIPA). This project has been highly successful both in
implementing small-scale works and in building capacity for
delegated contract management in the capital, Antananarivo. AGETIPA
is also beginning to create four branches in regional cities. Under
the proposed project these branches would be further developed to
contract urban works sub-projects to the private sector and build
regional capacity. The new branches would eventually be available
for managing additional types of investment.
Project Sustainability
Additional revenues generated from project investments are
projected to be higher than maintenance costs. Parallel efforts
will be made to improve local government finances and maintenance efforts.
Poverty Category
Almost 50t of urban dwellers are beneath the poverty threshold. The
project will assist development of small and medium sized public
works companies thus creating jobs and enhancing the livelihood of
population in secondary urban areas. Improved basic infrastructure
will also improve the living conditions of people in the project area.
- 2-



Lessons Learned
In Madagascar in the past, institutional development at the local
level has been based on top-down approaches, heavily dependent on
foreign technical assistance and incumbent local officials. These
efforts have not proven sustainable.
AGETIPA provided a new impetus to urban development. It has proven
an efficient way to contract small-scale works and have a rapid and
direct impact on poverty by creating employment, building private
sector construction and consulting capacity through steady demand,
fast payment and transparent procedures and increasing
infrastructure services demanded by local governments and user
groups. Similar success has been reflected in other AGETIP projects
in Africa . The strengths of AGETIPs have been their independence
from government and transparent involvement of the private sector;
they have quickly provided highly visible results. The risk of this
pattern is that AGETIPs could take over resource allocation and
subvert the prerogatives of elected authorities and user groups.
For this reason, more recent AGETIP projects are placing a greater
emphasis on enhancing the municipalities' ability to plan for and
manage urban facilities.
Environmental Aspects
The sub-projects financed under the new project would provide
localized improvements in the urban environment, as has been the
case under the ongoing AGETIPA project. This is consistent with
experience under most AGETIP projects in Africa. In order to
identify relevant environmental issues for each type of sub-
project, AGETIPA carried out environmental assessments for a
representative sample of each type of project in each city before
appraisal. During implementation AGETIPA supervising engineers will
ensure that any mitigation measures called for are taken by
contractors. The communes (local governments) will also monitor
environmental impacts and mitigation measures as they take over the
new investments.
Program Objectives Category
The project would support private sector and human development,
poverty reduction on an environmentally sustainable basis.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending July 4, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environment
The sub-projects financed under the project would provide localized
improvements in the environment, as has been the case under the
ongoing AGETIPA project, consistent with experience under most
AGETIP projects in Africa. The project has, therefore, been given a
"B" rating. As was the case under the ongoing project,
environmental assessments have been carried out for a
representative sample of each type of sub-project in each city
before appraisal. Based on this information and on experience under
the ongoing project, a questionnaire has been developed for
screening sub-projects which deserve special investigation and
specific mitigation measures. Sub-projects likely to have
significant environmental impact, and all revenue generating sub-
projects, will be subject to an environmental assessment. During
implementation, AGETIPs and supervising engineers will ensure that
any mitigation measures called for are taken by contractors. The
adequacy of environmental assessment and mitigation procedures will
be carefully examined at annual reviews.
- 5-



