                                  Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 33784-MAG

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (IDA-29680)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 35.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                                    FOR THE


                         URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                December 21, 2005




Water & Urban I
Country Department 8
Africa Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2005)

                                Currency Unit = Malagasy Ariary (MGA)
                                       1MGA = US$ 0.000461
                                     US$ 1.00 = 2169 Ariary

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1 -     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD       Agence Française de Développement
AGETIPA   Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Infrastructures Publiques d'Antananarivo
AGETIP    Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Infrastructures Publiques
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
HIPC      Highly Indebted Poor Country Initiative
FY        Fiscal Year
IST       Institut Supérieur de Technologie
LIL       Learning and Innovation Loan
MINATAV   Ministère de l'Aménagement du territoire et de la Ville
MTR       Mid-term review
NGOs      Non Government Organizations
PIPM      Priority Investment Program of Municipalities
RMF       Road Maintenance Fund
SME       Small and medium enterprises
SOE       Statement of Expenses
TOR       Terms of Reference
UDMP      Urban Development Master Plan
VAT       Value Added Tax




                               Vice President:     Gobind T.Nankani
                            Country Director:      James P. Bond
                             Sector Manager:       Jaime M. Biderman
                          Task Team Leader:        Susanne Holste

                                  REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR

                             URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT)


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
    6. Sustainability                                                                13
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
    9. Partner Comments                                                              16
    10. Additional Information                                                       17
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
    Annex 8 Borrower's Contribution                                                  29
Map IBRD No. 28798

Project ID: P048697                                                  Project Name: MG-Urban Infrastructure Project
Team Leader: Susanne Holste                                          TL Unit: AFTTR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: MG-Urban Infrastructure Project                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-29680
   Country/Department: MADAGASCAR                                                          Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: General transportation sector (36%); Sub-national government
                            administration (27%); Other social services (24%); Irrigation and
                            drainage (12%); Central government administration (1%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services and housing (P); Decentralization (P);
                            Municipal governance and institution building (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/22/1997                                     Effective: 10/14/1997                10/14/1997
     Appraisal: 04/25/1997                                         MTR: 03/15/1999                  10/18/2002
      Approval: 06/25/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR/AGETIPA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               James P. Bond                                  Michael Sarris
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Susanne Holste                                 James Wright
ICR Primary Author:             Susanne Holste


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
Quality at Supervision (6) : Satisfactory

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The project objectives, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report, were:

i)       Two development objectives;
l improved provision and maintenance of urban infrastructure, and
l increased income and employment for the poor.
ii)      These objectives were to lead to the following outcomes:
l Efficient system for delegated project management developed in six regions,
l Small-constructions enterprises and consulting firms developed,
l Project management enhanced, and
l Improved municipal investment priorities.


The objectives were timely and responsive to needs expressed by both central government and participating
municipalities. They were clearly justified and spelled out in the body of the SAR and their scope delineated
in the logical framework annex of the SAR. Both development objectives and outputs were realistic and
should be interpreted as deepening relevant impacts, and improving the processes of the highly satisfactory
Urban Works (AGETIPA) project (Credit No 2591-MAG; US$ 18.3 million) completed in December
1998.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The development objectives have not been revised.

At MTR the job creation indicator was readjusted downward from 111,000 person months to 65,000
person months. This adjustment was made to take into account community preferences which favored
projects, such as markets and asphalted roads, that were less labor intensive than previous projects selected
by AGETIPA and which had served as a baseline to define the indicator. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA6) took note of this revision and indeed considered the initial objective as too ambitious.

The Implementation period was extended from 5 years to approximately 7.5 years. The additional 30
months are explained by an eighteen month suspension of all AGETIP projects resulting from the
Africa-wide review of these operations and the political crisis that paralyzed Madagascar in 2002 (see
detail in section 5.3).

3.3 Original Components:

The components were straightforward and closely related to achieving the project objectives. The technical
assistance activities were focused on providing support for identifying and designing the subprojects and
for strengthening the capacity of the SMEs. Following the MTR the project increased its technical
assistance support to municipalities and added the preparation of urban development master plans (UDMP)
which are an important tool for town planning.




                                                     - 2 -

The project components were:

PART A: Civil works
         Contracts for design, construction/rehabilitation, and supervision of economic infrastructure and
revenue earning projects in Antananarivo, Antsirabe, Antsiranana, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Toamasina,
and Toliary.

PART B: Equipment
         Limited amounts of laboratory equipment and machines to produce self-locking cement blocs for
street paving in cities with insufficient SME presence; as well as office equipment for participating
municipalities.

PART C: Consultancy Services:
         Assistance to municipalities and beneficiaries to formulate and evaluate Priority Investment
Programs of Municipalities (PIPMs) and to AGETIPA to conduct analysis and training for SMEs,
facilitate participatory seminars, provide information services, and finance technical and financial audits.

PART D Project management costs- AGETIPAs:
         Management costs to be financed as a percentage of the contract amounts.

3.4 Revised Components:

l The works component has been slightly modified to cover some contingency works related to the
    cholera emergency experienced during project implementation. The modifications were considered as a
    shift in focus for subproject selection and did not warrant a specific amendment to the Development
    Credit Agreement.
l The original Development Credit Agreement limited project coverage to six provincial cities in addition
    to Antananarivo and called for the creation of up to six autonomous regional delegated project
    management agencies. At the time of MTR, the decision was taken to: (i) extend the benefits of the
    project to additional cities, and (ii) change the implementation arrangements by consolidating all
    implementation within the well established, central executing agency thereby deferring the creation of
    additional autonomous delegated project management agencies. This was warranted because the
    volume of works was too small and did not cover the overhead costs of setting up a regional branch. It
    was found more cost efficient to manage the regional programs from Antananarivo with dedicated staff
    and dispatch them to the participating cities whenever needed. The Development Credit Agreement was
    amended in December 2002 to reflect these changes.

The output indicator for the number of conventions signed was revised downward from 300 to 60
agreements because it was agreed that after the MTR participating municipalities would sign one delegated
project management convention covering all subprojects in their respective Priority Investment program of
Municipalities (PIPMs) as opposed to the earlier arrangement of signing one convention per subproject.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry is rated satisfactory.

The project design was consistent with the CAS priorities, as discussed at the Board on February 18, 1997,
which aimed at (i) broad based growth led by the private sector, (ii) strengthening the public sector in its
changing role, and (iii) human capital development.



                                                       - 3 -

The project built on a large body of experience and knowledge in Madagascar, the region, and Bank-wide.
As a follow-on project it capitalized on experience gained through the highly satisfactory Urban Works
(AGETIPA) Project (Credit No 2591-MAG; US$ 18.3 million), as well as the knowledge developed and
lessons learned through other AGETIP projects in Africa.

Project preparation was greatly reinforced by the experience accumulated during the Urban Works
(AGETIPA) Project, particularly for all aspects related to delegated contract management and urban
infrastructure provision in the capital city of Antananarivo. Several other factors also contributed to
strengthen and accelerate the preparation process and readiness including; (i) the existence of a fully
operational executing agency, AGETIPA, set up under the Urban Works Project, (ii) requests from elected
mayors for infrastructure investments and extension of the benefits of delegated contract management in
their cities, (iii) Government's request to extend AGETIPA's activities to six provincial cities, and (iv)
AGETIPA's initiative to identify and train personnel for regional activities.

Project preparation was completed in record time and it took only four months from appraisal to
effectiveness. Consistent with the AGETIP approach, project components were broadly defined.
Concerning Part A of the Project, eligible categories and sub-project selection criteria and a phased process
for establishing autonomous regional AGETIPs were clearly spelled out at appraisal. The actual selection
of subprojects was, however, deferred to implementation. This ensured that subprojects were
demand-driven and enabled participation of local governments and communities in the selection process and
design. It further ensured a sense of ownership by the beneficiaries and their elected representatives as
evidenced by the fact that the completed infrastructure is currently functional and by a high degree of
satisfaction among beneficiaries. The actual selection of the cities for the establishment of regional
AGETIPs was also deferred to implementation and until such time as the PIPMs were developed and the
feasibility and sustainability of such regional agencies demonstrated. This proved to be a judicious choice
on both counts. Under Part B of the Project the institutional development and capacity building was closely
interwoven with the immediate objectives of the project and focused on strengthening municipal capacity to
(i) define investment priorities through a participatory process and (ii) improve SME's capacity to plan and
execute maintenance and construction works.

A procedures manual was prepared and project launch workshops were organized in the seven participating
cities shortly after effectiveness to disseminate project objectives and procedures.

Critical risks and adequate mitigation measures were identified at appraisal. Only the risk of establishing a
feasible regional system has materialized. To overcome this difficulty, project management was
consolidated into AGETIPA and its office in Antananarivo. Focusing capacity building efforts on
AGETIPA allowed it to adequately handle procurement, fiduciary and other requirements of donors and to
respond to the increasing volumes and diversity of investments. Implementation in the six other cities was
ensured through regular site visits and, where justified, the creation of temporary antennas.

The Monitoring and Evaluation system was based on standard indicators used for public works and
particularly AGETIP projects. The QSA6 considered the monitoring indicators to be well defined. There
was no formal amendment but following the MTR the project enhanced its poverty monitoring and carried
out client satisfaction surveys. The results are detailed in Annex 1A. AGETIPA put in place a highly
responsive M&E system which provides real-time reporting for project indicators and is complemented by
a monitoring platform for sub-project implementation.




                                                      - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievement of objectives and outputs is rated satisfactory.

Overall assessment

The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory, as the project achieved most of its objectives and these
objectives were in line with Government policies. With regard to the first development objective and within
the limit of the funds made available, demand driven infrastructure, identified through a participatory
process, was built or rehabilitated (see section 4.2 for details). The infrastructure was built in a socially
and environmentally sensible manner. The degree of satisfaction of the beneficiaries with the infrastructure
improvements (see Annex 1A), the high level of cooperation between central government and municipal
authorities, and AGETIPA's strong performance resulted in Government requesting a follow-on urban
infrastructure and local government development project in July 2005. Due to the scarcity of IDA funds
this request could not immediately be honored. The infrastructure built under the project changed the
appearance of recipient cities, induced economic activity, improved environmental conditions, eased traffic
flow, and linked otherwise isolated neighborhoods to the city fabric. The preparation of updated Urban
Development Master Plans for the seven cities provides city manager with the tool to strategically plan for
the upgrading of their cities.

Concerning the second DO, the job creation targets were revised downward at MTR, in order to reconcile
community priorities and preferences and the use of labor intensive construction methods. Indeed
communities and municipalities took the driver's seat for the selection of subprojects. Labor intensive
works approaches were not feasible for the particular subprojects selected or were not deemed appropriate
in light of the quality requirements. The project exceeded its revised target of 65,000 man months of jobs
created. These were unskilled or low-skilled jobs which were typically taken up by the poor (see annex 1A
for examples). Future projects should continue to give a high priority to employment and job creation. The
focus should, however, be shifted from the creation of jobs through the construction of infrastructure to the
creation of jobs through economic development made possible by the infrastructure built by the project.

The indicators for both DO's have been exceeded as indicated in Annex 1.

Assessment outcome indicators:
Efficient system for delegated project management developed in six regions: As mentioned earlier, the
intention to create six autonomous delegated project management units was abandoned in favor of a strong
focus on streamlining AGETIPA's capacities and procedures and building its capacity to meet donors'
requirements. During project implementation three AGETIPA antennas were created in cities which had a
sufficient investment portfolio to merit closer supervision of the consultant and civil engineering works
programs delegated to AGETIPA. The revised indicators of 60 delegated project management conventions
and US$36 millions investment were substantially met with 58 conventions signed and US$27 million
invested (for a credit total of US$36.3 million).

Small-construction enterprises and consulting firms developed: It is estimated that approximately 20 new
SMEs were created as a result of the project. For the 178 construction companies and 107 consulting firms
which worked with AGETIPA under the project, the main impacts have been; (a) increase in revenues; (b)
access to AGETIPA training program for SMEs; (c) on-the-job training acquired through AGETIPA strict
controls and highly qualified supervision; and (d) improved commercial reputation as successfully



                                                      - 5 -

completing an AGETIPA contract is considered an excellent reference in the construction industry. The
performance indicators for this outcome objective have been exceeded.

Project management enhanced: The indicators for this outcome have been either largely met or exceeded
as indicated in Annex 1 with the exception of the financial contribution of municipalities which was
discussed earlier. It should be stressed that achievement of this outcome is highly satisfactory on at least
two counts; (a) after a difficult starting period plagued with procurement and financial procedural errors
(see section 5.3 for details), the Government, the Bank, and the agency's new management team joined
forces to strengthen AGETIPA - and turn it into one of the best performing delegated project management
agency in Africa, fully capable of meeting the fiduciary, procurement, environmental, and social
requirements of donors while providing services highly appreciated by municipalities and SMEs alike; and
(b) the participation of communities and municipalities in the selection and design of subprojects created a
true sense of ownership which in turn generated the necessary motivation for successful implementation
and subsequent operation and maintenance.

Improved municipal investment prioritization: A total of eleven PIPMs were prepared under the project as
compared to an initial objective of six PIMPs. In addition, seven comprehensive urban development master
plans were prepared and are at the final stages of approval by Parliament. The preparation process and the
quality of both PIPMs and master plans have been highly satisfactory and involved the participation of
beneficiaries and relevant stakeholders.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Civil works:

The project was to finance US$ 21.45 million worth of subprojects for infrastructure construction/improvement and
revenue earning facilities in the capital city of Antananarivo and surrounding municipalities and in six other
secondary cities. The table below summarizes the nature of infrastructure and the quantities achieved under the
project per participating municipality:

Table 1: Categories of infrastructure per participating municipality.



                    Kms                           Kms.                                        Ccm                                                                                         and
                                                                                                                                                                                                             waste
                                                                                                                                                                              terminals
                       Roads      Streets    Kms.     Stairs     Sidewalks    sqm Retaining      Walls Canal    Construction Canals    Rehab Gardens   Markets   Transportati          on    Toilets showers      Solid containers
Antananarivo                60.06        16.24              2.47          40.20            5.90             31.72 194.00                            5         1                           40                 133
Peripheral                  34.60                           0.05           4.20            1.70             32.53                  0.90
Municipalities
Antsirabe                   11.94        0.28                             10.40            0.40             15.95                  2.00
Antsiranana                  8.10        0.17               0.20          25.50            0.09             15.50                  5.02             1         2
Fianarantsoa                10.13                           0.01           2.60            0.10             13.71                  4.63                                      1                      8
Mahajanga                    5.17                                         20.50            0.02              2.74                  7.86                                                             4
Toamasina                    8.90                                         20.90            0.11             11.82                  11.45
Toliary                      0.41                                          1.00                              1.29                                   1         1                                     1                  3
Total               139.31               16.69              2.73 124.30                    9.40 125.30 225.90                                       7         4              1            53                 136




                                                                                             - 6 -

The allocation of investments among participating municipalities is indicated in the table below:

Table 2: Investment distribution among cities.
                        Investment        Population `000  Investment %  Population %         Investment
                        US$ million                                                         US$ per capita
Antananarivo               10.27                 998.5          49.45         32.77             10.28
Peripheral                  1.19                 233.4           5.75          7.66              5.11
Municipalities
Antsirabe                   1.05                 538.9           5.06         17.69              1.95
Antsiranana                 2.26                 423.5          10.90         13.9               5.34
Fianarantsoa                1.96                 110.0           9.45          3.61             17.83
Mahajanga                   0.89                 118.4           4.27          3.89              7.49
Toamasina                   1.87                 232.6           9.03          7.63              8.06
Toliary                     1.26                 391.4           6.09         12.85              3.23
TOTAL                      20.76              3,046.8                                            6.81
* At the rate 1US$= 10,000 FMG. Amounts not including VAT


Table 2 indicates that the allocation of investments varied widely among participating municipalities.
Fianarantsoa and Antananarivo received USD 17.83 and USD 10.28 per capita respectively while Toliary
and Antsirabe received USD 3.23 and USD 1.95. The average investment per capita of USD 6.81 over a
period of more than seven years is well below the needs.

The selection of subprojects shows a strong preference for roads, sidewalks, water drainage, and sewerage
disposal. Road rehabilitation often changed the appearance of cities with improved traffic flow and public
transportation, and commercial exchanges with neighborhoods which were previously inaccessible. The
works have lowered the dust level and water stagnation on the right-of-way and increased municipal
revenues from rental of commercial space along the newly improved roads and sidewalks and from induced
commercial activity in general.

The construction of markets was rightly preceded by thorough consultation with beneficiaries and
neighboring communities for the design of the market, relocation during construction, and subsequent
operation and maintenance of the markets. As a result, and contrary to African experience, all the markets
are functional and enjoy a high degree of satisfaction among traders and patrons. Such subprojects have
resulted in a noticeable improvement in food hygiene, environmental conditions inside and around the
market, increased and diversified clientele. The most successful market sub-project was the reconstruction
of the country's largest wholesale and retail market in the Anosy neighborhood of Antananarivo. The
market was designed and built in such an exemplary way that it earned the Metropolis prize. The works
have generated a strong interest for similar subprojects by other mayors.

Public ablution facilities as well as public laundry stands have resulted in tangible hygiene and
environmental improvement in their immediate vicinity. In Antananarivo, AGETIPA undertook a
successful partnership with the municipality and the international NGO CARE. As a social intermediary
CARE carried out all community consultation leading to the site selection of ablution facilities, the
preparation of relevant design characteristics, and the subsequent organization for operation of
maintenance. The partnership proved successful and offers a possibility for replication in other cities.




                                                           - 7 -

The rehabilitation of the National Road RN1 segment and the Anosibé wholesale market are two
complementary subprojects that have changed the urban landscape in Antananarivo. The Beneficiaries
and visitors are proud and entirely satisfied with the quality of the infrastructures and their resulting
impacts (improved traffic fluidity, improved hygiene, improved security conditions, improved drainage
and improved landscape thanks to the quality of design and street lining with trees). Beneficiary
participation in the design of these two subprojects and particularly the whole sale market insured a deep
sense of ownership and a smooth transition to a fully functioning market. The Market has won the city
an international prize. The social intermediation that preceded and accompanied its construction greatly
contributed to the success of the operation by providing real-time information to and consultation with
the people. A specialized NGO provided HIV/AIDS awareness campaigns in the market and its
neighborhood. The participatory technical design could advantageously serve as an example for other
similar subprojects in Africa and elsewhere. The market currently houses 1738 traders and is fully
equipped with toilets, parking areas, and unloading areas.

Equipment:

All participating Municipalities have received standardized sets of computer equipment, local area network,
and office furniture for computer assisted management of maintenance, investment programs, and urban
physical planning. User training was provided and an after-sales service for maintenance was contracted.
Training and specific software delivered to municipalities is developing capacities for:

·        Cartographic, technical and digital databases,
·        Computer assisted urban planning and production of detailed cartographic documents,
·        Construction permit and cadastre management,
·        Land surveys and stacking,
·        Project management,
·        Maintenance programming and management; and
·        Networking and information sharing with other municipalities and institutions.

Under this component AGETIPA also purchased a mobile testing laboratory. The management of this lab
was contracted out to a private company. The lab provides all interested engineering and construction firms
with the necessary soil analyses on a fee basis. Prior to the acquisition of the mobile lab these analyses
were either carried out abroad, given to the National Laboratory, or simply foregone.

Consultancy services:

Under this component consultancy services and training were provided to municipalities, construction
enterprises, and AGETIPA.

Participating municipalities received consultancy services for the preparation of their PIPMs. These
consultancy services covered the organization of community participation in the selection and design of
priority infrastructure. Municipalities also received consultancy services for the social intermediation which
preceded such complex sub-projects as wholesale and retail market rehabilitation/reconstruction.

Seven municipalities received technical assistance for preparing their Urban Development Master Plans
through a participatory process and study tour to France, Germany and La Réunion. These UDMP will
provide a shared database for the respective cities and allow informed decision making about future city's



                                                         - 8 -

growth and priority investment plans.

Construction and engineering firms received training through approximately 70 different modules covering
a wide range of technical, managerial, and financial topics. The total number of student days reached
4,553. Courses, provided on a fee basis, have been delivered in all project cities. All training sessions have
been carefully evaluated and satisfaction levels reached up to 90%. Beneficiary enterprises appreciate the
training offered and continue to send trainees. They have requested that AGETIPA training modules be
complemented by hands on skill training.

AGETIPA received consultancy services for its quality standards charter and environmental manual which
led to its certification under ISO 9000 and ISO 1401 standards. It also benefited from consultancy services
for streamlining its operations and strengthening its internal controls, as well as for financial and technical
audits. These consultancy service and persistent motivation of the management to improve performance are
paying off as clearly shown in the various audits, aide-mémoires, and ISR/PSRs.

Project management cost

A total of USD 3.2 million has been paid for project management cost under this project which is
equivalent to 6.6% of the total cost. It is worth noting that project management involved preparation and
supervision of works programs as well as technical assistance to municipalities distant from AGETIPA's
headquarters in Antananarivo.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An economic analysis has been carried out as part of this evaluation. This analysis of a representative
sample of subproject revealed that the ERRs of sample subprojects either exceeded or are within/close to
the ranges set forth in the Staff Appraisal report for the relevant investment category. The results of the
economic analysis are summarized in Table 3 below:

Table 3
Subproject               Investment            Projected ERR         Actual ERR             NPV FMG Billion
                         category              range as per the              %
                                                     SAR
Anosibé Market          Markets                29 to 50%                   48.87                   54.95
RN1 Road                Roads and drainage     17 to 36 %                  28.52                   21.23
Community               NA                     NA                          70                       0.12
equipments (toilets,
showers, laundry)
Ambohimitsimbina        Staircase              64%                         43                       0.41
public staircase
Seafront Garden-        NA                     NA                          28.19                    0.82
Toliary
Betania Market          Markets                29 to 50%                   17.8                     0.78
Toliary
J. Ralaimongo           Roads and drainage     17 to 36 %                  46.87                    4.65
Street ­ Antsirabe

It should be noted that the full economic benefit of the subprojects have yet to materialize. An ex-post



                                                      - 9 -

economic analysis, to be carried out within two to three years, would provide a better insight into the
economic and financial impacts of the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

A minimum financial rate of return (FRR) of 15% was expected for all revenue-earning infrastructure (eg.
markets, abbatoirs). The project financed no abbatoirs and only two markets: the Anosy market in
Antananarivo and the Betania market in Tuléar. The FRR of the Anosy market is 16.5% based on an
annual increase of stall fees of 12%. The FRR of Betania market is 16% based on an annual increase of
stall fees of 10%. Both cases meet the requirements set for in the SAR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact is rated substantial.

Participating municipalities were substantially involved in project selection and in the follow up of
subproject execution. The process involved systematic consultation with communities and their
representatives not only in setting investment priorities but also in the design of sub-projects and the
operation and maintenance of infrastructure. Priority investment programs were genuinely debated and
formally approved by the municipal councils of participating municipalities making them fully accountable
for their execution. The process of participatory subproject selection has been enhanced by the preparation
and approval of revised master plans for 7 cities.

Municipalities received hands-on advice on social engineering. Beneficiary communities were
professionally identified and fully consulted for the design of infrastructure its execution and its subsequent
management. Both in Toliary, Antsirabe (AFD), and Antananarivo complex market rehabilitation
operations were successfully carried out as a result of thorough prior social engineering work. The city was
awarded the Metropolis Price for the reconstructed Anosy market in Antanarivo, housing 1700 merchants.
The process is an important local best practice case, which can be replicated in other cities in the country.
It is also worth disseminating to other countries in the region where urban infrastructure is rebuilt but
remains idle for lack of prior social engineering work and acceptance.

Municipalities were also substantially supported in the preparation of urban development master plans.
The UDMP are an essential tool for town plan and the preparation, which included an intensive study tour,
enabled city managers to familiarize themselves with modern planning and management tools. The
UDMPs were complemented with satellite images which will be extremely useful in town planning. The
provision of equipment and training targeted at the maintenance of urban infrastructure will improve
sustainability.

The large training program targeting municipalities and SMEs resulted in enhanced management capacities
and a steady improvement in the quality of both works and studies. Training for municipalities focused on
the technical departments and introduced skills such as maintenance programs planning, budgeting, and
supervision. This training sensitized municipalities as to the magnitude of maintenance needs and the
necessity to mobilize additional resources for that purpose. As part of this training, AGETIPA organized a
study tour of municipalities in France and Germany, including municipal development fund agencies.
Training to SMEs encompassed management, budgeting and technical skill development. Targeted training
under the project totaled approximately 4,553 person/days. Demand for such training is strong as evidenced
by the willingness of SMEs to pay the training fee. It should be noted that the current construction industry
boom has resulted in an acute shortage of skilled workers. It would be beneficial to the industry, and the



                                                     - 10 -

economy, if AGETIPA's training program could be substantially upscaled.

In 2004 AGETIPA started an academically recognized executive degree course in project management. The
program targets young engineering graduates and undertaken in cooperation with the IST Institute and the
University of Antananarivo. It aims to train highly qualified project managers for industry and for
AGETIPA's own needs. The first class graduated earlier this year and all participants found immediate
employment.

Interviews with SMEs which worked on AGETIPA subprojects revealed that substantial training was
indirectly acquired through the supervisory engineering missions. Such supervisory engineering work
allowed participating SMEs to learn new techniques and better comply with rigorous quality requirement
and timeliness in contract completion.

During the period October 2002 until project closing, AGETIPA, assisted by its technical and financial
auditors, as well as by Bank missions, undertook a sustained program for improving its management and
monitoring capabilities. The results of these efforts include an efficient system for project monitoring and
evaluation, streamlined financial controls and record keeping, proactive environmental and social
assessments, certification for compliance with ISO 9000 quality standards and ISO 1401 environmental
standards, responsiveness to sudden variations in work loads, and satisfactory compliance with procedures
and safeguards required by different donors. AGETIPA's current management standards and financial
standing make it one of the best among the AFRICATIP network. The agency's recognized capacity
enabled it to contract for other delegated project management conventions such as AFD (US$39 million)
ending in 2008, HIPIC (US$3 million), FER (US$2.04 million renewable), IDA (Integrated Growth Poles
Project: contract management of infrastructure projects valued at US$21 million).

AGETIPA has commissioned a continuous client satisfaction survey. This survey rates: (i) public
(beneficiary) perception of AGETIPA (professionalism, responsiveness to community demands, quality of
infrastructure produced, contribution to environmental improvement, and degree of satisfaction with
AGETIPA programs), (ii) degree of satisfaction with the infrastructure built through AGETIPA programs,
and (iii) degree of approval of the prioritization of investments. Responses are largely favorable and allow
AGETIPA to measure its performance and timely adopt corrective measures.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Two major factors outside the control of the government have affected the pace of project implementation:
(i) the political instability and turmoil that followed the December 2001 presidential elections and which
lasted until July 2002, and the ensuing economic crisis, and (ii) the downward fluctuation of exchange rates
of the local currency against USD and of USD against SDR. The depreciations made extra funding
available while also leading to some increase in factor prices, such as cement and fuel.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Delays in mobilizing Government and municipal financial contributions particularly during the period
following the political crisis slowed down the pace of project implementation. It should be noted that the
adverse impact of these delays were mitigated by the remedial action taken by the Bank, which consisted of
suspending the obligation for municipal contributions for a one year transition period and subsequently
earmarking such contributions for maintenance as opposed to investment.




                                                       - 11 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

During the 1997-1999 period procurement problems were discovered in most AGETIP projects and the
Africa Region decided to carry out multiple comprehensive audits. Project activities came to a virtual
standstill for eighteen months. In February 2000, a sample procurement audit established that contracts
worth US$955,792 were not in conformity with procurement practices and the Government of
Madagasccar Government was asked to refund this amount and apply it to its cholera eradication program.
Furthermore Bank agreed with GOM on an action plan to address the procurement problems and on an
extended procurement audit of 100% of the remainder of the contracts financed from 1997 through 1999
under the Credit. Following the conclusion of the sample audit, AGETIPA was required to submit all
contracts to prior review and adopt the AFRICATIP Manual of Procedures. This manual that became
available in March 2000, was the result of an extensive review, led by the Bank, of various versions used
by other contracting agencies in order to remove ambiguities and contradictions that could cause
misprocurement. The extended audit was carried out in 2001 and established that the procurement process
for 173 contracts, or 51%, of the 336 contracts for Works and Goods was not in conformity ("NC") with
the DCA and AGETIPA's Manuel of Procedures. The total amount disbursed for the NC contracts was
US$2.24 million. The average contract amount was below $15,000 and there is no large contract, only one
contract of about $100,000 and five between $50,000 and $100,000. Misprocurement cases fall in the
following categories: (i) a bidding period of less than 7 days was given to bidders to prepare their bids, (ii)
a single bid, unless in case of rebidding, was evaluated, and (iii) bid evaluation and award were inconsistent
with the provisions of the DCA and/or manual of procedures        Due to the political crisis of 2002, IDA's
decision was made only in May 2003. It was then decided to waive the reimbursement of the balance of
non-conform contracts because IDA was satisfied with the results of the remedial actions and with the track
record of AGETIPA's new management team. IDA was also reassured by the auditor's finding that there
had been no corrupt intent. [cf letter by Callisto Madavo, VP, to Shengman Zhang, MD: Request for
Waiver to Refund Policy, May 12, 2003].The new team's efforts consisted of rigorous comprehensive
ex-post reviews, major staffing changes, and capacity building efforts focusing on streamlining
procurement and financial procedures, revising the procedures manuals, adopting more efficient monitoring
and evaluation system, improving environmental and social evaluations, and strengthening AGETIPA
management capacity across the board and extending the closing date to June 30th 2005. These preventive
actions led to a restart of implementation activities by mid to late 2002, the return to the thresholds of the
original Development Credit Agreement following the MTR and the completion of the project by the
revised closing date.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$ 45.8 million equivalent. Of the total cost, USD$ 35
million (75%) was to be financed by IDA, US$ 8.7 million (20%) by the Government, and US$ 2.1 US$
million (5%) by participating municipalities. At closing date the rate of disbursement of IDA was 99.62%
all categories combined, Government contributions (counterpart fund and VAT) reached US$ 9,799,000,
and Municipal contributions were US$1,532,000. It should be noted that municipalities mobilized their
contributions in full.

All project activities were tax exempt. Government was sometimes very slow in reimbursing contractors for
the VAT they advanced for intermediate goods and services causing undue cash flow burdens and
discouraging some companies from bidding.

The foreign exchange rate dropped from approximately FMG7,000/US$1 in late 2002 to approximately



                                                      - 12 -

FMG 10,000/US$1 at project closing. The windfalls resulting from the changes in exchange rates from
XDRs to US$ and from US$ to FMG allowed to fund additional subprojects and required a further six
months extension of the project to complete the extra works.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability of the project is rated likely.

The works financed under the project are for basic infrastructure. The training provided by AGETIPA to
municipal maintenance committees has resulted in strengthened skills for programming and budgeting of
maintenance programs and increased awareness for the need to preserve infrastructure and other assets.
The Urban Development Master Plans, prepared under the project, allowed mayors, city councils, and
technical staff to have a clear idea of the extent of dilapidated infrastructure in some neighborhoods and to
actively seek funding for their improvement. Some municipalities are experimenting with contracting out
operations and maintenance to the private sector with clear obligations for maintenance of the devolved
infrastructure. This is the case for instance for the retail market and the public garden in Toliary and the
ablution facilities built in Antananarivo.

Following the one-year grace period for the municipal contribution after the 2002 crisis, this contribution
was reinstated and earmarked exclusively for maintenance. Some maintenance programs have accordingly
been undertaken by AGETIPA.

For the first time the Government allocated FMG 50 billion (US$5 million) from the road maintenance fund
to municipalities for the maintenance of urban roads improved by AGETIPA over the past twelve years.
The first phase of this program, intended as a recurrent program, is being implemented.

While the long-term solution to ensuring adequate maintenance requires i.a. improved revenue-raising
capacity of municipalities and further strengthened technical capacities, the achievements so far indicate a
stronger awareness of maintenance problems which is the very first steps towards a solution. Madagascar
remains one of the most centralized countries for resource allocation and there is a strong need to reform
the tax system. In particular the intergovernmental transfers need to reviewed. It is only once these
reforms are put in place that the sustainable management of the municipal assets can be ensured.

AGETIPA is entering a phase of consolidation and maturity. After a period of crisis (2000-2002)
AGETIPA has, as noted previously, undertaken an aggressive program for strengthening its management
capabilities, gearing up its procedures and internal controls with the requirement of donors, improving the
quality of studies and infrastructure, and constantly monitoring changes in its institutional and social
environments and adapting to them. AGETIPA's current pipeline is equivalent to about a 2.5 years
workload beyond the closing date of this project. This pipeline includes such sources of financing as IDA,
AFD, government funds, and the Road Maintenance Fund.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The infrastructure built has been officially transferred to the respective municipalities for operation and
maintenance. In some cases the municipalities delegated operation and maintenance activities to private
entrepreneurs or associations (Toliary), but most are managed directly by the municipalities. The training
provided by AGETIPA for municipal maintenance committees has been instrumental in creating capacity to



                                                      - 13 -

identify and budget maintenance programs. Municipalities are actively seeking funds for maintenance
through alternative sources, such as the Road Maintenance Fund. Overcoming the huge maintenance
backlog and ensuring maintenance in a sustained manner will require a dedicated municipal revenue
enhancement effort.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The preparation of the project was carried out in record time. The staff mix and continuity during
preparation were adequate. Economists, engineers, urban development/AGETIP specialists, financial
analysts, and environmental specialists provided the core expertise. Peer reviewers and other staff provided
valuable inputs. The team capitalized on past experience with the Urban Works projects. It drew on
Bank-wide stock of knowledge and experience in other African countries.

7.2 Supervision:

Despite frequent changes in task team leaders at the beginning of the project the quality of supervision is
rated satisfactory. This rating is justified by; the adequate number of supervision missions, the adequate
skills mix, and above all, the timely identification of problems and the appropriateness of the curative and
preventive remedies put in place. For the last three years, implementation assistance was provided from the
Madagascar Country Office through a resident TTL and a fiduciary team. A Quality of Supervision
Assessment carried out in 2004 rated some aspects of supervision highly satisfactory. Among these are the
high in-country team involvement in supervision, the effective use of monitoring indicators, and the strong
support provided by country and sector management. The assessment commented positively on the
supervision of fiduciary/safeguards aspects and the thoroughness of supervision documentation and
follow-up of recommendations. QAG considered that the task teams performance in monitoring indicators
and using them to interact with the Borrower and to guide project implementation was superior. The
review also rated as superior the timely coordination of the Country Portfolio Performance Review and
project's MTR which occurred both in October 2002 and led to the project restructuring.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance was satisfactory, with Bank staff cooperating closely with Government and
AGETIPA in pursuing the objectives of the project, in substantially increasing the accountability and
management capacity of AGETIPA, and in setting the stage for a longer term vision. Involving
municipalities, extending the project to a larger number of cities, and gradually shifting the project focus
from subprojects to PIPMs generated a strong interest among government officials and local elected
officials to intensify investments in their cities. There was an interest to shift the focus to citywide
engagement, and to tackle such issues as economic development, revenue enhancement, better asset
management, and a more aggressive capacity building agenda. With the country team cooperating closely
with AGETIPA, there have been tangible improvements in its management capacity and accountability and
it has demonstrated it capacity to comply with donors' financial, procurement, and other safeguard
requirements, and to handle diversified and increased volume of investment.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Borrower participation is rated satisfactory. The Government actively contributed to the preparation of the
project, allowed broadening of AGETIPA's management board to include representatives of elected city



                                                       - 14 -

mayors, and was timely in mobilizing counterpart financing.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance was satisfactory.

During implementation the government complied with all Bank supervision recommendations, and with the
different covenants of the DCA. In particular, Government complied with the Bank's request to refund the
non-conform contracts in 2001, it recognized the need to change AGETIPA's management team, and it
subsidized poorer municipalities which were not able to pay their contribution. In 2005 there have been
delays in the repayment of VAT to contractors due to a treasury shortfall.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Based on a review of the financial and technical audits and the ISR/PSRs the implementing agency
performed satisfactorily on all project components particularly since the MTR.

The Africa Region audit of AGETIP procurement problems during the 1997-1999 period also concerned
AGETIPA (cf. section 5.3). During that time the project came to a virtual standstill and implementation
was severly slowed down while remedial actions were applied. These actions required a 100% prior review
of all procurement and financial management activities. Given the political turmoil starting end of 2001 and
the subsequent economic crisis, the idle period extended until the fall of 2002. During this period
AGETIPA worked closely with Bank supervision teams and with various auditors and strictly complied
with recommendations.      AGETIPA purged all previous Delegated Project Management conventions,
worked closely with municipalities to prepare eleven new PIPMs, evaluated the fight against cholera
subprojects, improved its procurement and financial management capacity, and set the stage for a
successful continuation and completion of the project.

A new management and core technical team joined the agency in mid-2002. Management launched an
aggressive program for strengthening AGETIPA's procurement capacity, its fiduciary and other internal
controls, and its capacity for social and environmental assessments.         The MTR of October 2002
repositioned the project and through intense cooperation with the country-based Bank team, AGETIPA
worked hard to satisfactorily complete all project components. During the remainder of the project, the
agency continued to strengthen its management capacity, improve the quality of infrastructure and to
ensure its sustainability by actively seeking new Delegated Management Conventions. The management
team also actively sought additional funding sources to become less dependent on World Bank financing.
The ISR/PSRs and the audits during this period attest to the improvement of AGETIPA's management
capabilities on all counts. The continuing client perception survey indicates a high degree of satisfaction
with AGETIPA and the infrastructure built under its programs.

As a first step towards further extending the benefits of Delegated Project Management to an increasing
number of cities AGETIPA set up three regional antennas and this trend will be intensified as the workload
increases.

AGETIPA does not exist in a vacuum and the quality of its projects and the speed of delivery remains
dependent on the capacity of its partners namely the municipalities, the engineering firms, and the public
works companies. Despite some improvements and all the efforts, there is still room for improvement,
particularly with regard to quality and timely payment. Notwithstanding the shortcomings, AGETIPA is
widely perceived as one the most transparent and professional organizations in the country.



                                                   - 15 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

In light of the above, overall performance and participation of the borrower are rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l In-country teams closely cooperating with the borrower and the implementing agency can achieve
     highly satisfactory results.
l Supervision with a strong focus on objectives leads to higher degrees of achievement.
l Community involvement in subproject identification, prioritization and design is very likely to improve
     acceptance and sustainability. The implementation arrangements clearly assign PIPMs preparation and
     subproject selection to municipalities with strong community involvement. This has ensured the
     demand-driven nature of subprojects and provided a strong sense of ownership by cities and
     communities.
l The level of municipal contributions needs to be set following a prior evaluation of their capacity to
     mobilize the required funds. The failure to do this at project evaluation, let to some delays and distorted
     allocations favoring the richest municipalities, (particularly Antananarivo), excluding other
     municipalities with pressing needs. In future projects, and where feasible, municipal and government
     contributions should favor earmarking for maintenance.
l A strong emphasis on labor intensive approaches is not always compatible with community preferences
     and infrastructure priority needs. Employment creation can be achieved through investment in support
     of local economic development.
l Improving infrastructure coverage/rehabilitation requires a long-term commitment and can not be
     achieved through a one-time intervention. Involving municipalities, extending the project to a larger
     number of cities and gradually shifting the project focus from subprojects to PIPMs, generated a strong
     interest among government officials and local elected officials to intensify investments in their cities, to
     shift the focus on city-wide engagement, and to tackle such issues as economic development, revenue
     enhancement, better asset management, and a more aggressive capacity building agenda. These issues
     will require follow-on activity to build on the interest and experience that has been gained.
l Improving infrastructure coverage/rehabilitation requires a concomitant effort to enhance municipal
     finances. Future projects should seek higher investments levels and should be accompanied by an
     adequate capacity building effort to enhance municipal ability to mobilize resources for operation and
     maintenance. This could be accomplished through improving revenue collection, increasing taxes and
     fees, and promoting infrastructure in support of local economic development. Government is
     determined to make decentralization effective and is tackling to reform the tax system. Reflections are
     underway to create a local development fund which would provide an equitable and sustainable
     financing mechanism for municipalities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
                                    Summary of Borrower Contribution

The overall result of the project has been very satisfactory and the project has reached most of its
development indicators (see logframe).        Project impact can be summarized at the institutional level,
municipalities, and beneficiaries:

Institutional level
l Satisfaction expressed by central government and participating municipalities




                                                      - 16 -

l Assistance with contract management, development and social and economic infrastructure, and
    SMME strengthening
l Ownership of the sub-projects by the beneficiaries through involvement of all partners (government,
    elected officials, municipal services, civil society) and use of social intermediaries/NGOs at different
    phases in sub-project development; this was particularly important for the Anosibé market
l Improvement of revenue-raising capacity
l Improvement of public hygiene, food hygiene, cleanliness of neighborhoods
l Contribution to the ongoing process of decentralization and municipal development through the
    capacity building component
l Improvement and capacity strengthening of SMMEs in the areas of business skills and works execution
l Provision of managementt tools for planning and programming of municipal investments through the
    municipal priority investment plans and the urban development master plans

Municipalities
l City improvements
l Strenghtening of urban spatial planning, traffic flows, access to poor neighborhoods, increased
    commercial and economic activity
l Substantial improvement of urban environment through road rehabilitation (less dust and stagnant
    water), rehabilitation of markets (decrease of communicable diseases, important improvement of food
    hygiene, cleanliness in and around markets), ablution facilities, green spaces and parks
l Application of national and WB environmental and social safeguard procedures


Beneficiaries
l 72 % of the population confirmed that the sub-projects financed corresponded to their needs and
    improved their quality of life

The following aspects had a positive impact on project implementation:
l The project built on a large body of experience from the Urban Works Project (Credit No. 2591-MAG)
    and the Africatip network
l Development and implementation of a quality control system at AGETIPA for project management and
    environment (ISO 9001 : 2000 et 14001 :1996 ), delegated contract management, institutional
    development and capacity strengthening of SMMEs, to respond the expectations of all partners

The following aspects influenced project implementation:
l Political and economic crisis from December 2001 to July 2002 (delays in project planning and
    execution, factor cost increases, shortfall in municipal revenues)
l Weak capacity in the SMME and engineering consulting, important shortfall of qualified personnel


The logframe and its end-of-project indicators illustrate the substantial achievements of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix



Objective                                             Original     Revised    Performance Degree of
                                                      indicator at indicator  As of June  achievement
                                                      appraisal    MTR        2005        %
Development Objectives
Improved provision and      Number of contracts       600           600         875           145
maintenance of urban        signed
infrastructure
                            Amount in US$ mio                 36    36               27          75
Increased income and        Workers and               4,000             4,000   4,553         113
employment for the poor     supervisors trained in
                            student days.
                            Employment generated      150           65.5        73            111
                            in Man mos. 000
Output Objectives
Efficient system for        Number of                 300           61          58            95
delegated project           Conventions Signed
management developed in
six regions
                            Amount in US$ mio         36            36          27            75
Small construction          Const. enterprise with    150           150         179           119
enterprises and consulting  at least one contract
firm developed
                            Consulting firm with at   65            65          108           166
                            least one contract.
                           Consulting firms with at   80            80          87            108
                           least one contract less
                           than US$ 100,000


Project management          Works completed on        85            85          79            92
enhanced                    time %
                            Works completed w/in      85            85          87            102
                            budget
                            Average contracting          30 to 40   35          59            168
                            time days
                            Payment within 30         95            95          82.7          87
                            days
                            Average contribution      5             5           3             60
                            from cities % contract
Improved municipal          Number of PIPMs           6             6           12            200
investment prioritization




                                                - 18 -

Annex 1A. AGETIPA monitoring system

In addition to the indicators required by the logframe, AGETIPA monitors aspects related to client
appreciation and poverty impact.

The client survey takes place annually and is administered to about 700 beneficiaries in the greater
Antananarivo region. The table below presents an excerpt:

                                                       2003                     2005
Are you satisfied with AGETIPA                         58%                      58%
Works carried out by AGETIPA respond to                67%                      72%
the needs of the population
AGETIPA helps improve quality of life and of           68%                      72%
the environment
AGETIPA handles itself professionally                  55%                      64%
AGETIPA provides quality infrastructure                46%                      57%

The same survey also question the beneficiary regarding the usefulness of the infrastructure
provided: roads, ablution facilities, markets, and parks:




                                                 - 19 -

AGETIPA monitors several dimensions of poverty impact of the project.
1) Infrastructure provided in poor neighborhoods which have a direct impact on the quality of life (eg
ablution facilities, access roads). The project dedicated more than US$10 million to such improvements
which potentially benefits about 800,000 people. AGETIPA will carry out surveys to measure the
utilization of the facilities and estimate the direct beneficiaries.

Infrastructure          Investment (US$)       Population served     Improvements provided
Labor-intensive         64,310                6,788                  Neighborhood upgrading, IEC,
works
Angarangarana
Labor-intensive        39,932                 3,990                  Neighborhood upgrading, esp. reduction
works Ivolaniray                                                     of water-borne diseases, IEC,
Ablution facilities    645, 128               782,077                Neighborhood upgrading, time and cost
and public laundry                                                   savings
facilities in 46
neighborhoods
Restructuring of       9,952,851              67,251 and 1,735       Neighborhood upgrading, esp. reduction
Anosy neighborhood                            merchants              of water-borne diseases, incoming
                                                                     generating activities

2) Job creation through labor-intensive works and demonstration work sites
The project created 43,384 work days for unskilled or low-skilled workers which tend to be the poor. Each
worker earned about 3000 ariary per day ($1.3). Typically pro-poor solution were added to the
equipment-based works.

Pro-poor technical      Investment (US$)       Days of work          Payments made
solution                                       created               (US$)
Laying of cobble       2,714,385              22,367                30,500
stones
Walls made of          46,837                 5,861                 8,000
stones
Labor-intensive        206,864                12,130                16,540
works
Canal cleaning         875,557                3,026                 4,125
Total                  3,843,642              43,384                59,165




                                                       - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                                            Estimate        Estimate         Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million     US$ million
Component 1                                               39709.00          41311.00               104
Component 2                                                 2538.00            410.00               16
Component 3                                                  600.00           3334.00              555
Component 4                                                 2983.00           3174.00              106

Total Baseline Cost                                       45830.00          48229.00
                          Total Project Costs             45830.00          48229.00
                    Total Financing Required              45830.00          48229.00


Project costs by procurement category (appraisal estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                           Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB           NCB         Other         N.B.F      Total Cost

1.Works                        00             36.80        00                        36.80
                              (00)           (27.60)     (00)                       (27.60)
2. Services
Design and supervision                                      2.90                       2.90
(local)                                                    (2.20)                    (2.20)
Audits (foreign and                                         0.32                       0.32
local)                                                     (0.30)                    (0.30)
Technical studies                                           0.93                       0.93
                                                           (0.88)                    (0.88)
Training (local)                                            1.30                       1.30
                                                           (1.24)                    (1.24)
3. Goods                        0.30           0.20         0.10                       0.60
                                (0.27)        (0.19)       (0.10)                    (0.56)
4. Agency operating                                         3.0                        3.0
cost (fees)                                                (2.21)                    (2.21)
5. Project Preparation
Facility Refund
Total                           0.30          37.0          8.55                     45.85
                                (0.27)       (27.79)       (6.93)                   (35.00)




                                                - 21 -

  Project costs by procurement category (Actual/latest estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                         Procurement Method
  Expenditure Category           ICB      NCB        Other     N.B.F       Total Cost
  1.Works                        21.88    19.93       0.22                     42.03
  2. Services
  Design and supervision                              2.47                      2.47
  (local)
  Audits (foreign and local)                          0.37                      0.37
  Technical studies
  Training (local)                                    0.23                      0.23
  3. Goods                        0.32    0.21                                  0.53
  4. Agency operating cost                            2.47                      2.47
  (fees)
  5. Project Preparation
  Facility Refund
  Total                          22.20    20.14       5.76                     48.10



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                            IDA       Govt.       CoF.     IDA        Govt.       CoF.    Bank   Govt.   CoF.
Component 1                 29.80     10.97                30.35     11.06               101.8   100.8
Component 2                 0.57      0.41                 0.30       0.22                52.6    53.7
Component 3                 2.40      0.84                 2.78       0.28               115.8    33.3
Component 4                 2.23      0.60                 1.95       0.51                87.4    85.0
PPF Refund
Total                       35.00     12.82                35.38     12.07               101.1    94.1




                                                   - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

An economic analysis has been carried out as part of this evaluation. This analysis of a representative
sample of subproject revealed that the ERRs of sample subprojects either exceeded or are within/close to
the ranges set forth in the Staff Appraisal report for the relevant investment category. The results of the
economic analysis are summarized in the table below:


                                          Projected ERR
Subproject            Investment          range as per the     Actual ERR           NPV FMG
                      category            SAR                          %            Billion
Anosibé Market         Markets              29 to 50%               48.87               54.95
RN1 Road               Roads and            17 to 36 %              28.52               21.23
                       drainage
Community              NA                   NA                         70                 0.12
equipments (toilets,
showers, laundry)
Ambohimitsimbina       Staircase            64%                        43                 0.41
public staircase
Seafront Garden-       NA                   NA                      28.19                 0.82
Toliary
Betania Market         Markets              29 to 50%                17.8                 0.78
Toliary
J. Ralaimongo          Roads          and   17 to 36 %              46.87                 4.65
Street ­ Antsirabe     drainage



It should be noted that the full economic benefit of the subprojects have yet to materialize. An ex-post
economic analysis, to be carried out within two to three years, would provide a better insight into the
economic and financial impacts of the project.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/25/1997


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/06/1997


 Supervision
              06/1997                   3    Task Team Leader, Fin.               S               S
                                             Analyst, Economist
              10/1997                   3    Economist; Consultant, Fin           S               S
                                             Analyst.
              04/1998                   2    Sr. Urban Spec., Urban Spec.,        S               S
                                             Engineer.
              10/1998                   2    Sr. Urban Spec., Engr. )             S               S
              03/1999                   3    Sr. Urban Spec., Engr, Team          S               S
                                             Assistant.
              10/1999                   2    Task Team Leader,                    S               S
                                             Engr/Consultant
              03/2000                   7    Task Team Leader, Mun. Fin.          U               U
                                             Spec., Team Assistant., Fin.
                                             Mgmt. Spec., Procurement Spec.,
                                             Urbanist/Consultant, Civil
                                             Engr./Consultant .)
              12/2000                   5    Task Team Leader, Urban Spec.,       U               U
                                             Sector Manager AFTU1,
                                             Procurement Spec., Fin. Mgmt
                                             Spec.
              03/2001                   5    Task Team Leader, Urban Spec.,       S               S
                                             Procurement Spec., Fin. Mgmt
                                             Spec., Environmental Spec.
              10/2002                   6    Task Team Leader, Lead Transp.       S               S
                                             Spec., Fin.Analyst, Proc.Spec.,
                                             Environ.Spec., Social Dev.Spec.
              05/2003                   7    Task Team Leader, Lead               S               S
                                             Transport Spec., Fin. Mgmt
                                             Spec., Procurement Spec., Sr.
                                             Environmental Spec., Social
                                             Dev. Spec., Environmental Spec.
              12/2003                   7    Task Team Leader, Lead               S               S
                                             Transport Spec., Procurement
                                             Spec., Fin. Mgmt Spec., Social
                                             Dev. Spec., Environmental Spec.,
                                             Team Assistant.
              06/2004                   7    Task Team Leader, Lead               S               S
                                             Transport Spec., Environmental



                                              - 24 -

                                            Spec., Social Dev. Specialist,
                                            Procurement Spec., Fin. Mgmt.
                                            Spec., Team Assistant.
               01/2005                 7    Task Team Leader, Lead              S    S
                                            Transport Spec., Env. Spec.,
                                            Social Spec., Proc. Spec., FMS,
                                            Assistant

 ICR
               06/2005                8     Task Team Leader, Lead              S    S
                                            Transport Spec., Urban Dev.
                                            Spec., Env. Spec., Social
                                            Spec., Proc. Spec., FMS,
                                            Assistant



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              4.5                             17.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 13.6                              46.2
  Supervision                          161.3                            466.5
  ICR                                     6.2                             14.8
  Total                                185.6                            544.7




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

SAR
DCA and its amendments
A complete series of PSRs
A complete series of supervision Aide- Mémoires
Project Archives in World Bank office at Antananarivo
AGETIPA bi-annual reports.
Evaluation Environnementale et Sociale du Projet d'Infrastructures Urbaines de l'AGETIPA.
L'Enquète Omnibus de l'AGETIPA.




                                                 - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution




                                         - 29 -

- 30 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 28798

                      44°                                                     46°                                                              48°                                                                                       50°




12°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12°


                                   M A D A G A S C A R                                                                                                                                                            Antsiranana

               URBAN INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
           PROJET D'INFRASTRUCTURES URBAINS

                                           PROJECT CITIES
                                           VILLES CONCERNEES PAR LE PROJET                                                                                                                       Ambilobe
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mahavavy

                                           PAVED ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                 Vohimarina
                                           ROUTES GOUDRONNEES
                                           ALL-WEATHER ROADS
                                           ROUTES ACCESSIBLES EN TOUTE SAISON                                                                                              Ambanja

                           l  l  l         RAILROADS                                                                                                                          A N T S I R A N A N A
                                           CHEMIN DE FER
14°                                        RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                           14°

                                           RIVIERES
                                           FARITANY                                                                                                                                                                         Sambava

                                           LIMITES DES FARITANY                                                                                                                        Bealanana
                                                                                                                       Analalava

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Andapa
                                                                                                                                 Antsohihy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Antalaha



                                                                                                                                                                                 Befandriana

                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Maroantsetra
                                                                                                                    Port Berge                      Sofia
                                                              Mahajanga
                                                                                                                                                Anjombony
                                                                                                                                                                                           Mandritsara

16°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         16°
                                                                                        Marovoay                                    Mampikony
                                                                                                                                             Bemarivo                                                                         Mananara

                                                                                                                          Mahajamba

                                                                                            Ambato
                                                                                            Boeni

   M o z a m b i q u e                                   M A H A J A N G A                                                             Tsaratanana
                                                                                                              Boinakely                                                                  Soanierana-Ivongo
                                                                                           Maevatanana
                                                                                                               Betsiboka                                                         Andilamena



     C h a n n e l                                                                                                                                                                     Maningory                  Fenoarivo-Atsinanana
                                                                                                                                Andriamena                                             Vavatenina
                                          Manambaho                                                                                                                                 Imerimandrosa
                                                                                                                                                                                 Lake             Onibe
                                                                                                                                                                            l    Alaotra
                                                                                                                                                                          l
                                                                                                                                                                  l
                                     Morafenobe                                                                                                                               Ambatondrazaka
                                                                                                                                                       l
                                                                                                                                           Vohidialal                               Ivondro
18°                           Maintirano           Bemahatazana
                                                                                                                                                      l                                                            Toamasina                                                18°

                                                   Beravina            Mahavavy                                                                  T O A M A S I N A
                                                                                                                                                         l
                                                                                                               Ankazobe                                    l                         Fanandrana                 l
                                                                                                                        Anjozorobe                        l                                                    l
                                                                       Ambaravaranala                                                                   l      l                                              l

                                                                                                                                                              l                                              l
                                           Antsalova          Tsiroanomandidy                                                  Ankzondandy                   l                                             l
                                                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                           ANTANANARIVO                                           l                                                       l
                                                                                                                                                                                        l
                                                                                                                                            l l                                       l      l
                                                                                           Analavory                                            l                     Perinet                            l
                                                                                                                              l          l                                         l            l
                                                                                                                                      l            l        l         l
                                                                                                                                                                             l  l
                                                                     Fanjakamanaroso                     Arivonimamo             Manjaklan
                                                                                                                                 l                                                               Vohibinany
                                                                                                                           l                        Moramanga
                                          Manambolo                                                                              -driana
                                                                                     Soavinandriana                          l

                                                                            A N TA N A N A R I V O                             lAndramasin

                                                                                                                              l                     Anosibe
                                                                                                 Faratsiho                                                                                    Vatomandry
                                                                                                                            l

                                         Belo       Miandrivazo                                                          Ambatolampy
                                                                                                                          l                                                             Canal
                                         Tsiribihina                                   Mandoto                          l
                                                                                                                     l
                                                                                                                  l
                                          Tsiribihina                                           Betafo          l

                                                                                                          l  l                                      Mangoro         Mahanoro
                                                                                       Antsirabe
20°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20°

                       Morondava                                                                                        Fandriana                 Marolambo
                                              Mahabo             Malaimbandy
                                      Morondava
                                                                                                                   Ambositra
                                                                                Ambatofinandrahana                                                                            Nosy Varika                                                 I N D I A N

                                                                                                                                        Vohilava

                                                                                              Ambohimahasoa                                                     Pangalanes                                                                 O C E A N
                                                                                                                                 Ifanadiana                        Mananjary
                                    Manja                                      Fianarantsoa                l
                                                                                                              l
                                                                                                                  l   l
                                              Beroroha                                                                   l
                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                l
           Morombe             Mangoky                                                                                             l
                                                                                                          Ambalavao                  l

                                                                                  Ankarmena                                            l

                                                                                                                                          l
22°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22°
                                                                                                                              Manakara

                                                                       Ihosy            F I A N A R A N T S O A
                       T O L I A RY                                                                  Ivohibe              Vohipeno



                           Sakaraha
                                                                                                         Vondrozo                       Farafangana                                                                      This map was prepared by the Map

                                                                                                            Mananara                                                                                                     Unit of the World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         The boundaries, colors, denominations

                                                                                 Betroka                                                                                                                                 and any other infoomation shown on

           Toliary                                                                                                                                                                                                       this map do not imply, on the part of
                         Fiherechana                                                                                                                                                                                     The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                          Vangaindrano                                                                                                   on the legal status of any territory, or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                         Midongy-du-Sud
                                    Betioky Onilahy                                                                                                                                                                      such boundaries.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         50°

24°                                                                                                                                                                                      24°
                                                    Bekily                                                                                                                                                   TANZANIA
                                                                  Berakete                                                                                                                                                                     45°                50°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             COMOROS             Antsiranana
                                                                                                 Manantenina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        E                         (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       U
                                 Amponihy                                    Mandrave                                                                                                                     15°        IQ                     Mahajanga                       15°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    B
                                                                                             Taolagnaro                                                                                                            M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ZA
                                                                                                                                                                                                              O
                                                              Ambovombe                 Amboasary-Sud                                                                                                      M                        Channel              SCAR    Toamasina

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       G   Antananarivo
                                                                                                                                                                                                           20°                 bique                    A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ozam                       A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     D    Fianarantsoa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          M                         A
                                                                                                        0              50             100          150                           200                                                  Toliary      M

                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                           25°                                                              25°

                      44°                                                      46°                                                             48°                                                                       40°                   45°                50°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MAY 1997

