Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2968-MAG
Project Agreement
(Urban Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INFRASTRUCTURES PUBLIQUES D'ANTANANARIVO
Dated July 14, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2968-MAG
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 14, 1997 between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INFRASTRUCTURES PUBLIQUES 
D'ANTANANARIVO (AGETIPA).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Republic of Madagascar (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty five 
million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 25,200,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
AGETIPA agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement; and
(B)
under a Convention to be entered into between the Borrower and AGETIPA, 
part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement 
will be made available to AGETIPA on terms and conditions set forth in said 
Convention; and
WHEREAS AGETIPA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) AGETIPA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this 
end, shall carry out the Project (other than Part A.2 thereof) with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Association and AGETIPA shall otherwise agree, AGETIPA shall carry 
out the Project (other than Part A.2 thereof) in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Section 2.02. Except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works, and consultants' 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. AGETIPA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. AGETIPA shall duly perform all its obligations under the AGETIPA 
Convention and the Procedures Manual. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
AGETIPA shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of 
assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the AGETIPA Convention, the Procedures 
Manual or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) AGETIPA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Convention, and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
AGETIPA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by AGETIPA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the AGETIPA Convention.
(c)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, AGETIPA shall 
participate fully in each annual review referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 4 
to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall: (a) furnish to the 
Borrower and the Association such reports as may be required for that purpose, and in 
such detail as the Borrower or the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
progress and status of the Project; and (b) following each such review, act promptly 
and diligently, in order to take, or assist the Borrower in taking, any corrective 
action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in the implementation of the 
Project, or to implement, or assist the Borrower in implementing, such other measures 
as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of 
the Project.
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of AGETIPA 
Section 3.01. AGETIPA shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices, under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  3
Section 3.02. AGETIPA shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
financial, engineering, environmental, and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. AGETIPA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) AGETIPA shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
AGETIPA shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each semester 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
have its administrative, technical and managerial performance for 
each 
semester audited by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association, having 
regard to the provisions of this Agreement, 
the Development Credit Agreement, 
the AGETIPA Convention and the 
Procedures’ Manual;
(iii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later 
than three months after the end of each such 
semester, (A) certified copies of 
its financial statements for such 
year as so audited and (B) the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iv)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
AGETIPA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify AGETIPA 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
Page  4
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Agence d'Exécution des Travaux d'Infrastructures:
Publiques d'Antananarivo
31, Rue Kasanga
B.P. 8590
Antananarivo -101
Madagascar
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of AGETIPA or by 
AGETIPA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by its Director General of AGETIPA, or by such other person or persons as 
the Director General of AGETIPA shall designate in writing, and AGETIPA shall furnish 
to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
AGENCE D'EXECUTION DES TRAVAUX D'INFRASTRUCTURES 
   PUBLIQUES D'ANTANANARIVO
Page  5
By /s/ Biclair Andrianantoandro
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1 
Implementation Program 
1.
In the city of Antananarivo, as in other Selected Cities, Beneficiaries shall 
identify and select Subprojects eligible to be financed under the Project, having 
regard to criteria set forth in the Procedures Manual, and develop PIPs accordingly, 
for transmission to AGETIPA and the Association, as the case may be, for review and 
approval.
2.
Where, in relation to any of the Selected Cities, it is determined that an 
annual PIP of at least $1 million is sustainable for at least two years, and that the 
Beneficiary has the resources necessary to provide the requisite amount of counterpart 
funds, AGETIPA may enter into a contract for the management of Subprojects included in 
the PIP with the Beneficiary in the form of the model form provided in the Procedures 
Manual (hereinafter referred to as Delegated Works Management Contract), on terms and 
conditions which shall be acceptable to the Borrower and the Association, setting 
forth the respective obligations of the parties thereunder, details of works schedules 
and Subproject costs, the amount of the Beneficiary’s contribution to the cost of the 
Subprojects, including, but without being limited to:
(i)
the right of the Beneficiary to require AGETIPA to manage the 
Subprojects with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with 
sound technical, 
financial, and managerial standards and 
practices, and to maintain 
adequate 
records; and
(ii)
the right of AGETIPA: (A) to require the Beneficiary to deposit 
the required 
amount of counterpart funds into the Project Account prior 
to commencement of 
works and, upon completion of the works, to make 
adequate provisions for 
maintenance of completed works; and (B) 
to suspend or terminate the right of 
the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of a Grant upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to 
perform any of its obligations under such contract.
3.
AGETIPA shall exercise its rights under the Delegated Works Management Contracts 
and the Civil Works Contracts in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Delegated Works Management Contracts and the Civil Works Contracts, or any 
provision thereof.
