Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7304 -TUN 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Fourth Economic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan)
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated June 28, 2005
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7304 -TUN 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 28, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
February 28, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to 
promote private investment, growth and employment (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and  
 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two (2) 
tranches as hereinafter provided; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency. The Bank, at the request and acting as an 
agent of the Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn 
from the Loan Account such currencies as shall be required to meet 
payments to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.” 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) 
Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the 
execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.”; and 
 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted in its entirety and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified 
above), 9.08 and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) “
Comité Général des Assurances” 
means the Borrower’s committee for 
the supervision of insurance companies established and operating under Decree No. 556 
dated April 23, 1991, as amended to date; 
 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement;  
 
(c) 
“FY” means the fiscal year of the Borrower beginning on January 1 and 
ending on December 31 in each calendar year; and 
 
(d) 
“VAT” means Value Added Tax. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE
 
II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
sixteen million one hundred thousand Euros (EUR116,100,000), as such amount may be 
converted from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of one hundred fifteen 
million five hundred nineteen thousand five hundred Euros (EUR115,519,500) from the 
Loan Account in support of the Program. 
 
(b) 
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree: (i) all withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into an account designated by the Borrower 
and acceptable to the Bank; and (ii) the Borrower shall ensure that upon each deposit of 
an amount of the Loan into said account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Borrower’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank determines at any time that an amount of the Loan was used to 
make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of said payment to the Bank. 
Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be cancelled. 
 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account: (i) unless the 
Bank has received payment in full of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; and (ii) after the aggregate amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan 
Account has reached the amount of fifty eight million six hundred thirty thousand five 
hundred Euros (EUR58,630,500), unless the Bank is satisfied, after an exchange of views 
as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Bank: 
 
(A) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
 
(B) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed 
between the Borrower and the Bank; and 
 
(C) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken.
 
Page  5
-
4
-
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank is not so satisfied, the Bank may give 
notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within ninety (90) days after such notice, the 
Borrower has not taken steps satisfactory to the Bank, in respect of (A), (B) and (C) 
above, as the case may be, then the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2007, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion 
of such fee as may be determined by the Bank from time to time. The Borrower agrees 
that on or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:  
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and  
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
Section  2.10.  Without  limitation  upon  the  provisions  of  paragraph  (a)  of     
Section 2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the 
Bank in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate 
basis applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each 
Interest Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Particular Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.01(a) of the 
General Conditions, the Borrower shall promptly furnish to the Bank such information 
relating to the provisions of Article II of this Agreement as the Bank may, from time to 
time, reasonably request. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b)
 
Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the 
Deposit Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Additional Event of Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Development and International Cooperation of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of  
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Development and International Cooperation 
 
Place Ali Zouaoui 
 Tunis 
Republic of Tunisia 
 
Cable 
Address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
MDCI 
  18060 
  216-71-351666 
216-71-799069 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391  
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA 
 
By
 /s/ Mohamed Néjib Hachana  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Christiaan Poortman 
 
Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa  
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02(c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan shall 
not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1.  
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan, credit, or grant;
 
2.  
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
Page  11
-
10
-
nuclear reactors 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
Machinery 
 
897 
 728.43 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 
    -  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
4. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
5. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
6.  
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of 
the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation.
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share). If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
February 15, 2010 
7.20% 
August 15, 2010 
0% 
February 15, 2011 
0% 
August 15, 2011 
0% 
February 15, 2012 
0% 
August 15, 2012 
2% 
February 15, 2013 
0% 
August 15, 2013 
7% 
February 15, 2014 
7% 
August 15, 2014 
6.5% 
February 15, 2015 
7% 
August 15, 2015 
6.5% 
February 15, 2016 
7% 
August 15, 2016 
6.5% 
February 15, 2017 
7% 
August 15, 2017 
5.6% 
February 15, 2018 
5% 
August 15, 2018 
5% 
February 15, 2019 
5% 
August 15, 2019 
4.3% 
February 15, 2020 
3.5% 
August 15, 2020 
2.7% 
February 15, 2021 
2.7% 
August 15, 2021 
2.5% 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02(d) of this Agreement
 
1.  
Macro Economic Framework
The Borrower has prepared a medium-term fiscal framework satisfactory to the 
Bank, envisaging a positive primary fiscal balance (excluding grants and privatization 
receipts) as of 2008, and presented it to its Chamber of Deputies as part of the economic 
budget documentation for FY 2006. 
 
2. 
Private Investment Climate
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank that it has taken the following actions: 
 
(a) 
Published, in the official gazette of the Republic of Tunisia, a regulation 
providing for the reduction in the number of prior authorizations for private investors to 
no more than 120. 
 
(b) 
Submitted to its Chamber of Deputies for adoption in 2006 a draft law 
providing for an increase as of 2008 to 100 % of the rate of VAT restitution for accrued 
credits. 
 
3. 
Financial Sector Development
The Borrower has furnished to the Bank evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank that it has taken the following actions: 
 
(a) 
caused its Central Bank to certify that commercial banks operating in the 
Republic of Tunisia and recording a provisioning gap, as estimated by the Central Bank 
pursuant to the prevailing prudential requirements, have used in 2005 the full amount of 
their earnings and, as needed, part of their reserves for the purpose of fully eliminating 
such gap, without decreasing the capital adequacy ratio below the prevailing regulatory 
limits;
 
(b) 
caused its Central Bank to adopt prudential regulations applicable to 
credits to companies which do not comply with the transparency requirements set forth 
under the law on financial security
;
(c)  
submitted to its Chamber of Deputies for adoption a draft law for the 
establishment of the 
Comité Général des Assurances,
 to provide for its administrative and 
financial autonomy; 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
(d) 
submitted to its Chamber of Deputies for adoption a draft law on 
financial security providing for, inter alia: (i) the creation of independent audit 
committees within boards of listed companies; (ii) the inclusion of information on 
internal control rules and the implementation thereof in the annual reports of companies 
making public offerings for savings; (iii) certification by managers on the 
comprehensiveness and compliance of financial statements with prevailing regulations; 
(iv) the obligation for quarterly disclosure of financial data for listed companies; (v) the 
rotation of auditors; (vi) strengthening the disciplinary authority of the securities market 
regulatory agency; (vii) strengthening the investigative powers of the securities market 
regulatory agency; (viii) the tightening of sanctions for securities offences; (ix) the 
establishment of a legal framework for individual savings management similar to that for 
collective savings; and (x) the clarification of the take-over regulations and the reduction 
of the delays for the declaration when ownership thresholds are reached; and 
 
(e) 
submitted to its Chamber of Deputies for adoption, a draft law 
eliminating the restriction on majority participation of foreign investors in the capital of 
insurance companies.
 
