                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR0000534




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-73040)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF 116.1 EURO MILLION
                         (US$ 150 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA

                                      FOR A

             Fourth Economic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan




                                December 18, 2007




Finance, Private Sector Development Department
Maghreb Countries
Middle East and North Africa Region

                        Tunisia ­ Government Fiscal Year
                             January 1- December 31

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 4, 2005)

                         Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar
                                1.00 US$ = 0.80 TD




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AAEU     Association Agreement with the European Union
AfDB     African Development Bank
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
ECAL     Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
FIAS     Foreign Investment Advisory Service
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
EU       Gross Domestic Product
FSL      Fixed-Spread Loan
GNP      Fixed-Spread Loan
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LDP      Letter of Development Policy
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MENA     Middle East and North Africa
MFA      Multi-fiber Agreement
MFN      Most Favored Nation
MOF      Ministry of Finance
NPLs     Non-Performing Loans
OED      Operation Evaluation Department
PER      Public Expenditure Review
ROSC     Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes
SMES     Small and Medium Enterprises
TD       Tunisian Dinar
VAT      Value Added Tax
WTO      World Trade Organization




                          Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                        Country Director: Mats Karlsson
                         Sector Manager: Zoubida Allaoua
                       Task Team Leader: Didier Debals
                        ICR Team Leader Catherine Burtonboy

                                            COUNTRY

     TUNISIA - Fourth Economic Competitiveness Development Policy Loan


                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
 A. Basic Information
 B. Key Dates
 C. Ratings Summary
 D. Sector and Theme Codes
 E. Bank Staff
 F. Results Framework Analysis
 G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
 H. Restructuring

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 15
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 15
Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............. 17
Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 19
Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 20
Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 25
Annex 6: Intermediary outcome indicators................................................................... 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
MAP

A. Basic Information

Country:               Tunisia                 Program Name:         TN - ECAL IV
Program ID:            P075893                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-73040
ICR Date:              12/27/2007              ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:    SAL                     Borrower:
                                                                     TUNISIA
Original Total
                       USD 150.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 149.2M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministere du Developpement et de la Cooperation Internationale
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
African Development Bank (AfDB)
European Union (EU)


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/17/2004     Effectiveness:        09/14/2005         09/14/2005
Appraisal:             02/25/2005    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/09/2005    Mid-term Review:
                                      Closing:              06/30/2007         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory      Government:                  Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:      Satisfactory      Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:             Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:                 Satisfactory      Performance:                 Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)               Rating:

Potential Problem        No                    Quality at Entry     Satisfactory



                                               i

Program at any time                              (QEA):
(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                           Quality of
                           No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                         25                  25
Capital markets                                                 10                  10
Central government administration                               20                  20
General industry and trade sector                               25                  25
Non-compulsory pensions, insurance and contractual
                                                                20                  20
savings


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                     Secondary          Secondary
Macroeconomic management                                      Secondary          Secondary
Other financial and private sector development                 Primary            Primary
Regulation and competition policy                              Primary            Primary
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization         Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Daniela Gressani                  Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Cecile Fruman                     Theodore O. Ahlers
Sector Manager:            Zoubida Allaoua                   Zoubida Allaoua
Program Team Leader:       Didier Debals                     Didier Debals
ICR Team Leader:           Catherine H. Burtonboy
ICR Primary Author:        Catherine H. Burtonboy



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The program will support mutually reinforcing development objectives
  a/ maintaining a sound and reactive macroeconomic framework, in particular by
promoting fiscal consolidation and strengthening the medium term fiscal framework;


                                                ii

  b/ improving Tunisia's investment climate and increasing private investment
opportunities;
  c/ reinforcing the financial sector's capacity to finance growth, by supporting initiatives
to reduce the level of non-performing loans, further strengthening the regulatory
framework for bank intermediation, and fostering the development of contractual savings,
especially in the insurance sector.

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

    Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from     Revised         Achieved at
                                                  approval        Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)       Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Level of bank provisioning as a share of NPLs

Value                                        Above 55% (NB.

(quantitative or  44.1 %                     In 1999 it was                  46.2%
Qualitative)                                 52.7%)

Date achieved     12/31/2003                 12/31/2006                      06/30/2007
Comments          The results of the actions taken during ECAL IV could not yet be measured at
(incl. %          project close, but the percentage of provisioning has increase beyond the
achievement)      results available at the time.
Indicator 2 :     Job creation by private sector
                                             No target value                 By the end of 2006,
Value             In 2005, 76,540 jobs       was set at the time             78,000 new jobs
(quantitative or  were created out of        of approval                     had been created
Qualitative)      which 69,039 in the        because the data
                  private sector             listed above was                out of which 77,220

                                             not available.                  in the private sector

Date achieved     06/24/2005                 12/30/2005                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Evolution of investment by on-shore and off-shore companies
                                             On-shore: 175
Value             On-shore: 159.4 MDT MDT                                    On-shore: 169.2

(quantitative or  Off-shore: 43.5 MDT Off-shore: 60                          MDT

Qualitative)                                 MDT                             Off-shore: 51.2
                                                                             MDT

Date achieved     03/31/2004                 03/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments          While the target numbers were not met, the numbers have increased increased
(incl. %          a lot and should continue progressing with the improvement of the private
achievement)      sector environment.



                                                  iii

Indicator 4 :    Evolution of foreign direct investment
                                                                             852.4 MDT Please
                                                                             note that this
Value                                    2,200 MDT                           amount does not
(quantitative or 752 MDT                 (cumulative FDI,                    include the 1.7
Qualitative)                             2006-2007)                          MDT receipt from
                                                                             the partial sale of
                                                                             Tunisia Telecom
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         The cumulative amount is higher than the target value.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Number and amount of new life insurance contracts
                                                                             The total number of
                                                                             contract has slowed
                                                                             down between 2005
                                                                             (372,890) and 2006
                                                                             (284,017) but this is
                                                                             mostly due to
Value            Data to be collected                                        consolidation a
(quantitative or during next supervision                                     numerous small
Qualitative)     mission                                                     contracts, the value
                                                                             amounts of the
                                                                             contracts has
                                                                             increased
                                                                             considerably from
                                                                             56.5 MDT to 78.4
                                                                             MDT.
Date achieved    06/24/2005                                                  06/30/2007
Comments         The baseline data was unfortunately not collected, but the result at project close
(incl. %         shows a good amount of activity in the sector and should contiue to increase in
achievement)     the coming years.



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval         Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)     Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / GDP Growth
Value                                    6.0
(quantitative or 5.6                                                         5.3
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Non Agricultural GDP growth


                                               iv

Value
(quantitative or 3.6                     6.4                             5
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Macroeconomic performance indicators / Exports of goods and services growth
Indicator 3 :    (constant prices)

Value
(quantitative or 0.3                     5.8                             4.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Macroeconomic performance indicators / Imports of goods and services growth
Indicator 4 :    (constant prices)

Value
(quantitative or 1.7                     5.9                             7.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Current account balance (% of GDP)
Value
(quantitative or -3.0                    -3.0                            -2.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Investment growth
Value
(quantitative or -3.2                    8.0                             5.1
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         Target not met but substantial progres made
achievement)
Indicator 7 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Investment rate (% of GDP)
Value
(quantitative or 23.4                    24.0                            22
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                      06/30/2007



                                               v

Comments
(incl. %         The amount of investments increased significantly, but unfortunately the % of

achievement)     GDP regressed a bit.

Indicator 8 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Private Investment (% of total)
Value
(quantitative or 56.5                      57.5                              56
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments         The results of the reforms and actions taken could not yet be measured at
(incl. %         project close but the improvement should be measurable in the next fiscal
achievement)     year.
Indicator 9 :    Macroeconomic performance indicators / Inflation (Consumer Price Index)
Value
(quantitative or 2.8                       3.0                               4.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         This high number was drive by the rise in oil prices
achievement)
Indicator 10 :   Macroeconomic performance indicators / Unemployment rate
Value
(quantitative or 14.3                      12.6                              14.2
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments         Target value not met, considerable improvements have been made, but their
(incl. %         consequences on the rate of employment could not yet be measured at project
achievement)     close
                 Macroeconomic performance indicators / Fiscal balance (excl. grants &

Indicator 11 :   privatizations)
                 (% of GDP)

Value
(quantitative or -3.2                      -2.6                              -2.9
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments         Considerable improvements have been made on fiscal consolidation. The exact
(incl. %         numbers reached were not available yet at project close, but should come very
achievement)     near the target values.
                 Macroeconomic performance indicators / Primary fiscal balance (excl. grants

Indicator 12 :   & privatizations)
                 (% of GDP)

Value
(quantitative or -0.5                      0.0                               0.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003                12/31/2007                        06/30/2007
Comments         The target was only substantially met because the authorities opted to subsidize
(incl. %         part of the oil price increase



                                               vi

achievement)
Indicator 13 :   Macroeconomic performance indicators / Total public debt (% of GDP)
Value
(quantitative or 60.4                    58.3                                56.4
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         96% achieved. Without the increase in the price of oil, the target would most

achievement)     certainly have been met

Indicator 14 :   Macroeconomic performance indicators / External debt (% of GDP), including
                 external short-term debt.
Value
(quantitative or 64.4                    51.5                                54.6
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         94% achieved is a considerable improvement particularly given the price of oil
achievement)

Indicator 15 :   Macroeconomic performance indicators / Foreign exchange reserves (imports
                 in months)
Value
(quantitative or 2.9                     3.5                                 3.5
Qualitative)
Date achieved    12/31/2003              12/31/2007                          06/30/2007
Comments
(incl. %         120% achieved
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                       IP                  Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/24/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                         0.00
  2     11/22/2005          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       71.84
  3     06/21/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       71.84
  4     12/28/2006          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       71.84
  5     06/22/2007          Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       71.84



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             vii

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., Program Document/ISR,
not evaluative):

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)
Project Context:
The ECAL project evaluated here was the fourth in a series. The first ECAL, (ECAL I)
introduced wide-ranging first generation actions aimed at promoting private sector development
(PSD); the second ECAL (ECAL II) supported improvements in the soundness, efficiency, and
competitiveness of the banking system. ECAL III consisted of a broad range of second generation
measures aimed at enhancing private sector development, through financial sector reform,
expanding it to the non-bank financial sector, and supporting the liberalization of the
telecommunications sector. The ECAL IV was designed with the aim of furthering this set of
reforms, in a de facto programmatic approach, with an emphasis on macroeconomic stability,
fiscal consolidation and financial sector development, in particular by removing impediments to
the efficiency of the banking sector stemming from the high level of non-performing loans.

Macroeconomic Context:

Sustained structural reform efforts since the early 1990s, supported by the World Bank and other
multilateral institutions, prudent macroeconomic policies, and deeper trade integration in the
global economy, created an enabling environment for growth of the private sector and improved
competitiveness of the economy. Thanks to a favorable rainfall on the 2002/03 season, GDP
growth was boosted from 5.6 percent in 2003 to 5.8 percent in 2004. Non-agricultural GDP was
resilient, supported by construction and other services, especially telecommunications. Non
agricultural GDP has accelerated to 5.4 percent in 2004. Tunisia's 2004 account deficit (reflecting
the sizeable trade deficit, at over 10 percent of GDP) was kept under control, at around 3 percent
of GDP for most of the late 1990s. However, the external current account deficit surpassed 4
percent of GDP in 2000 and 2001, and in early 2002, the external shocks were further
exacerbating the pressures on the current account. The authorities tightened fiscal and monetary
policies, thus containing domestic demand pressures. The current account deficit was brought
under control, also with support from strong agricultural production, reaching 3 percent of GDP
in 2003 and 2.1 percent of GDP in 2004. Foreign exchange reserves stabilized at the equivalent of
three months of imports since early 2003.

Strong growth has contributed to a sharp reduction in poverty between 1995 and 2000, with the
core poor (those living below a lower poverty line, reflecting a minimum consumption
expenditure level) accounting for only 4 percent of the population in 2000.

Fiscal consolidation progressed, but a primary budget deficit still persisted. After an important
fiscal consolidation effort during the 1990s, fiscal policy turned expansionary in 2000-2001 and
the primary budget deficit broadened to 0.7 percent of GDP. The fiscal stance was tightened in
the 2002 and 2003 budgets, but the primary budget deficit remained at 0.5 percent of GDP in
2003.




                                                  1

Rationale for Bank assistance

The World Bank support was needed to help the Government move forward with its programmed
set of reforms. The loan was underpinned by analytical work on competitiveness and a PSD
strategy. The Bank's assistance was divided into a series of well designed operations to
implement the various stages of the reform. Fourth in a series of Economic Competitiveness
Development Loans, the present operation supported a reform program including actions to
improve Tunisia's private investment climate, strengthen competition, enhance corporate
transparency and governance; take further steps to improve the quality of banks' loan portfolios
and reduce the amount of non-performing loans in the banking sector, liberalize the insurance
sector, while reinforcing the regulatory and supervisory framework in securities markets and the
insurance sector, and further strengthen the medium-term macroeconomic framework. In such, it
was consistent with the base-case scenario reflected in the Bank Group Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) for Tunisia discussed by the Executive Directors on June 3rd, 2004 and addressed
the first challenge identified in the CAS: "to strengthen the business environment to support the
development of a more competitive, internally integrated private sector and improve
competitiveness of the Tunisian economy". The operation supported the creation of new
opportunities for private investment, by improving the regulatory framework for investment and
facilitating market entry through the strengthening of competition policy. The operation was
prepared in collaboration with the International Monetary Fund for the macroeconomic
framework and performance indicators, and with the European Union (EU) and the African
Development Bank (AfDB) for the design, implementation and supervision on the basis of a
common policy matrix making the best use of the synergies between the four institutions. The
proposed loan amount was in line with the level of development policy lending foreseen in the
CAS.

1.2 Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The program supported mutually reinforcing development objectives
     · Maintaining a sound and reactive macroeconomic framework, in particular by
          promoting fiscal consolidation and strengthening the medium term fiscal framework;
     · Improving Tunisia's investment climate and increasing private investment opportunities;
     · Reinforcing the financial sector's capacity to finance growth, by supporting initiatives to
          reduce the level of non-performing loans, further strengthening the regulatory framework
          for bank intermediation, and fostering the development of contractual savings, especially
          in the insurance sector.

Key Indicators:

PDO Indicators                     Base Line value                End-of-Project Target Value
1. Level of bank provisioning as a 44.1 %            12/31/2003   Above 55% (NB. In     12/31/2006
share of NPLs                                                     1999 it was 52.7%)
2. Job creation by private sector  No Data           06/24/2005
                                   available
3. Evolution of investment by on-  On-shore: 159.4   03/31/2004   On-shore: 175 MDT     03/31/2007
shore and off-shore companies      MDT Off-shore:                 Off-shore: 60 MDT
                                   43.5 MDT
4. Evolution of foreign direct     752 MDT           12/31/2003   2,200 MDT             12/31/2007
investment                                                        (cumulative FDI,
                                                                  2006-2007)
5. Number and amount of new life   No data           06/24/2005   56.5 MDT              06/30/2007
insurance contracts                available



                                                  2

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification
The PDO and Key Indicators were not revised during the project.

1.4 Original Policy Areas Supported by the Program (as approved)

The main policy areas of the proposed operation are macroeconomic stability and fiscal
consolidation and financial sector development.

On the macroeconomic front, Accelerated reforms, supported by the proposed program, would
pave the way for healthy growth, despite increased international competition, with GDP growth
potentially reaching 6 percent by 2007. Non agricultural GDP growth could accelerate to a
projected 6.4 percent by 2007, from an estimated 5.4 percent in 2004. Exports could grow
steadily due to the development of new markets, although at a more moderate pace due to stiffer
competition as a result of the removal of MFA quotas. Improvements in the business environment
could lead to a gradual increase of the investment-to-GDP ratio by more than 1 percentage point
of GDP over 2004-07. However, given the continuing strong growth of the labor force, and
assuming no growth of employment in the public sector and agriculture, the unemployment rate
will be reduced only marginally, to slightly below 13 percent by 2007 from 13.9 percent in 2004.

Regarding the private investment climate the policies supported by the project aimed at:
    · Further improving the Country's import substitution bias through a reduction in
        transaction cost, fast registration, reduction in the number of procedures and custom
        documents, new system of normalized and simplified documentation for external trade
        organizations)
    · Removing the restriction on majority capital ownership by foreign investors and Improve
        the private investment regulatory framework in order to improve access to service
        markets, network industries(ICT in particular) and transport to private investors
    · Furthering the Government's divesture in areas such as the "Société Nationale de
        Développement des Hydrocarbures" and further support its privatization program.
    · Developing financing mechanisms to Small-and-Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and start-
        ups through incentives such as investment advantages granted to export oriented
        activities and reducing the gap between incentives framework for the offshore companies
        and the others.

The financial sector was overall well developed in the Country, but the banking sector remained
almost the sole source of finance for the economy. Therefore the program provided support to
financial sector policies aiming at:
    · further improving the provisioning and reducing the worrisome level of non-performing
        loans (NPLs) of public enterprises (22% of commercial banks total claims in 2003)
    · Boosting the non-banking financial sector, particularly the insurance sector.
    · Improving the availability and quality of financial information as well as the enforcement
        of corporate governance requirements essential to the credit assessment and management
        by banks.
    · Improving the development of securities market so far hindered by excessive reliance on
        easy bank financing for large companies, and by weaknesses in Tunisia's corporate sector
        and the weak corporate governance framework, with insufficient protection of minority.
        The conclusions of the ROSC provided strong evidence of the need for reform to improve
        trust and confidence in financial information.




                                                 3

  The main benefits from fiscal consolidation would include:
       · Securing domestic finance for greater investment, by mobilizing more public savings, so
            as to minimize pressures on the external balance over the medium term.
       · Reducing the level of public debt. This would further bolster the confidence of domestic
            and foreign investors. At 60 percent of GDP, public debt remains high by international
            standards and possibly denies Tunisia more favorable access to international capital
            markets.
       · Creating enough room in the budget to: i) adjust to severe shocks; and ii) possibly
            conduct counter-cyclical action, to offset part of the impact of adverse external shocks.
       · Creating room for expanding the social safety nets, to offset the social impact of
            structural changes due to deeper trade integration.

  1.5 Revised Policy Areas (if applicable)
  The Policy areas were not revised during implementation.

  1.6 Other significant changes
  (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
  allocations)
  There were no significant changes made to the project.

  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

  2.1 Program Performance (supported by a table derived from a policy matrix)
  *For multi-tranche DPL:

                                                    Tranche 1
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                         Status
Condition 1: Modify through the budget law the rate of advance VAT reimbursement from     Condition met
15% to 25% for companies with certified accounts                                          as pre-requisite
                                                                                          for Board
                                                                                          presentation
Condition 2: Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law amending the            Condition met
competition law to introduce : the financial and administrative autonomy of the           as pre-requisite
Competition Council; the prior consultation of the Competition Council for every          for Board
legislative or regulatory action potentially impacting competition; the ability of the    presentation
Competition Council to initiate cases ("autosaisine")
Condition 3: Certification by the Central Bank that commercial banks recording a          Condition met
provisioning gap, as estimated by the Central Bank against prevailing prudential          as pre-requisite
requirements, have effectively used in 2004 the full amount of their earnings and, as     for Board
needed, part of their reserves, without decreasing the capital adequacy ratio below the   presentation
prevailing regulatory authorities.
Condition 4: Publication of a circular increasing by 5% of the automobile insurance civil Condition met
responsibility for the administered sector                                                as pre-requisite
                                                                                          for Board
                                                                                          presentation
Condition 5: Macroeconomic performance indicators                                         Condition met
                                                                                          as pre-requisite
                                                                                          for Board
                                                                                          presentation
                               Subsequent Tranche(s) (add more rows, if needed)
                                          Tranche 2
List conditions from Legal Agreement/ Program Document                                         Status


                                                        4

Condition 1: Enactment of laws or decrees reducing the number of prior authorizations for Condition met:
private investors to no more that 120.
         The authorities have reduced prior authorizations for private investors to
         115. The articles related to this reduction were published in the official
         gazette on May 22, 2006 and moved to the substitution of code of duties
         (cahier des charges) for prior approval.
         This new regulation will facilitate private investment in many activities
         and is expected to further enhance competition and job creation.

Condition 2: Submit to the chamber of Deputies for adoption in 2006, a draft law          Condition met
to rebalance VAT rates and to increase as of 2008 to 100% the rate of VAT
restitution for accrued credits, on the basis of the conclusions of the study of the
tax framework.
         The operation has supported the preparation of a comprehensive
         assessment of the Tunisian tax system and the drafting of an action plan
         covering the overall tax framework (VAT and corporate taxation in
         particular). This led to a fiscal law which was drafted by the Government
         and adopted by Parliament in December 18, 2006. among other
         provisions, this law has set up an increase on the VAT reimbursement to
         100% in 2008, a re-balancing of the VAT rates (6%, 12% and 18%) and
         the suppression of the 29% rate.
         The steps are in line with the objectives of modernizing the fiscal
         framework and improving the relations between the corporate tax payers
         and the tax authorities as spelled out in the action plan. The other
         important objective of the plan is to harmonize gradually the incentives
         system between off-shore companies and on-shore companies. To this
         effect, provisions have been taken in the fiscal law in December 2006 and
         in the Finance law for 2007. Offshore firms are now allowed to sell up to
         30% of their production in the on-shore sector and be subject to the
         onshore fiscal regime on that portion. On the other hand, the standard
         corporate tax rate will be reduced from 35 to 30 percent while offshore
         corporate tax rate will be raised from 0 to 10 percent.
Condition 3: Certification by the Central Bank that commercial banks recording a Condition met
provisioning gap, as estimated by the Central Bank against prevailing prudential
requirements, have effectively used up 2005 the full amount of their earnings and ,
as needed, part of their reserves for the purpose of fully eliminating such gap,
without decreasing the capital adequacy ration below the prevailing regulatory
limits. The Central Bank had required that banks which experienced provisioning
shortfalls (four in 2005) allocate their excess in earnings to increase provisioning.
         The requirement is in line with the Central Bank's objective to reach a
         coverage provisioning ration of 70% for the banking sector by the end of
         2009. This requirement is also in line with the overall objective of the DPL
         to address the resolution of the banks' NPL portfolio in order to shore up
         the financial strength of the banking sector.
Condition 4: Adoption by the Central Bank of Tunisia of prudential regulations Condition met
applicable to credits to companies which do not comply with the transparency
requirements set forth under the law on financial security.
         A law on financial security was enacted in October 2005 promoting
         transparency and aiming at enhancing the quality of financial statements.
         A new provision stipulates that all commercial companies, have to provide
         certified accounts if they reached specified thresholds in terms of staff,


                                                     5

         turnover or balance sheet. The BCT has taken this new provision into
         account in drafting a new regulation on internal control framework. A
         specific chapter of this regulation deals with credit risk management.
         Credit institutions have to constitute a credit file in gathering all the
         qualitative and quantitative information on the borrowers, in particular
         the past three financial statements.
Condition 5: Submission to the Chamber of Deputies for adoption a draft law for Condition met
the establishment of the Comite General des Assurances (CGA), to provide for its
administrative and financial economy.
The draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by the Council of
Ministers on May 9th 2007, and submitted to the Conseil Constitutionnel to be
forwarded to the Chamber of Deputies.
         This new supervisory framework will strengthen the efficiency of the
         insurance regulator. The financial autonomy will be achieved through
         proceeds from a percentage of premiums collected by the insurance
         companies which is a good incentive to enhance market development. The
         CGA has been granted disciplinary powers but the most severe sanctions
         (withdrawal of license, revocation of management) will ultimately be taken
         by the Minister of Finance upon recommendation of the CGA. On the
         whole, this new law entrusts the CGA with more powers and expertise to
         tackle the restructuring of ailing insurance companies and develop the
         insurance sector.
Condition 6: Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law eliminating the Condition met
restriction on majority participation of foreign investors in the capital of insurance
companies.
         A draft law, satisfactory to the Bank, eliminating the restriction on
         majority participation of foreign investors in the capital of insurance
         companies was adopted by the Council of Ministers on May 9th, 2007. It
         has been submitted to the Conseil constitutionnel to be forwarded to the
         Chamber of Deputies.
         This measure is expected to strengthen competition in the insurance sector
         and promote an increased efficiency of Tunisian insurance companies. In
         addition, this measure will pave the way for the Societe Tunisienne
         d'Assurance et de Reassurances (STAR)'s restructuring. The new law, in
         line with international standards gives the power to the Ministry of
         Finance to closely monitor changes in shareholders ownership through
         prior approval.
Condition 7: Submission to the Chamber of Deputies of a draft law in financial Condition met.
security, to include: - the creation of independent audit committees within Boards
of listed companies, - the inclusion of information on internal control rules and
their implementation on internal control rules and their implementation thereof in
the annual reports of the companie making public offerings for savings, - the
certification by managers of the comprehensiveness and compliance of financial
statements with prevailing regulations, -the obligation for quarterly disclosure of
financial statements with prevailing regulations, - the obligation for quarterly
disclosure of financial data for listed companies, -the rotation of auditors, -
strengthening the disciplinary authority of the securities market regulator, -
strengthening the investigative powers of the securities market regulator, -the
tightening of sanctions for securities offences, -the establishment of a legal
framework for individual savings management similar to that for collective
savings, -the clarification of the take-over regulations and the reduction of the


                                                   6

delays for the declaration when ownership thresholds are reached.
        The law No 2005-96 relating to "Reinforcement of security in financial
        relations" has been approved by Parliament and promulgated on October
        18, 2005. As such, this achievement went beyond the disbursement
        conditions.
        The law addresses all conditions of the policy loan regarding financial
        security in a satisfactory manner and necessary implementation
        regulations have also recently been adopted. To give full effect to this law,
        the Conseil du Marche Financier should now make proper use of its new
        investigative and disciplinary powers to promote domestic securities
        market development
Condition 8: Lay out a medium-term fiscal framework (2007/09) satisfactory to Condition
the Bank, envisaging a positive primary fiscal balance (excluding grants and Substantially
privatization receipts) as of 2008, and present in the economic budget met
documentation for 2006.
       The Borrower has previously prepared a medium term expenditure
       framework (MTEF) satisfactory to the Bank, envisaging a positive primary
       fiscal balance as of 2008. The MTEF assumed a world price of oil of
       US$45/barrel as was done in the 2005 Budget law. However the significant
       increase in international oil prices (up to US$70/barrel in May 2007) meant
       that the objective of a positive primary fiscal balance would be substantially
       achieved (-0.3%). A new MTEF prepared in May 2007 delayed the
       objective of a positive fiscal balance until 2009. These new projections are
       based on 1) a constant fiscal pressure of 20.1%, 2) a control of recurrent
       expenditures, , 3) a commitment to phase-out the energy subsidies, and 4)
       an international price of oil at US$65/barrel. The last two factors will be
       crucial in meeting the new MTEF objectives. The increase in World oil
       price in 2005 more than doubled the subsidy budget to 508 million dinars.
       The MTEF projects a reduction of subsidies to 350 million dinars in 2009.
        The overarching objective behind the primary surplus objective was the
        reduction of public debt. The public debt ration has declined from 58.4
        percent in 2005 to 53.6 percent in 2006, thanks to the use of a part of the
        Tunisie Telecom partial privatization proceeds. The ratio of public debt is
        projected to reach 50.1% in 2011.



  2.2 Major Factors Affecting Implementation:
  Adequacy of Government's Commitment:
  This project was the fourth in a series of Economic Competitiveness Development Policy loan,
  which in itself demonstrates a strong commitment to the success of the reform program supported
  by the Bank. The Government was very active in the loan preparation, and remained quite
  focused on the attainment of the project development objectives. It must be noted that in some
  instances the authorities have gone beyond the committed benchmarks of the loan agreement1,



  1Condition 1 of the second tranche asked for the number of prior authorization for private investors to be
  reduced to 120, at project close, the number was actually down to 115. Condition 2 of the second tranche
  requested the submission of a draft law providing an increase to 100% of the rate of VAT restitution. A
  much more comprehensive law was not only drafted, but adopted by Parliament on December 18, 2006.




                                                       7

demonstrating that they were motivated by a strong desire to improve the Country's competitive
economic standing rather than by simple compliance with disbursement conditionality.

Soundness of Background analysis, Lessons Learned, Rationale for the Bank's
Intervention:
The main areas of structural reform supported by the ECALs programs have contributed critically
to the long run competitiveness of the Tunisian economy. The background analysis for ECAL IV
was quite extensive, and based inter alia on the work of the authorities in preparing their five year
development plan and on the findings and recommendations of a number of Bank reports: the
Financial Sector Assessment Program, the Development Policy Review, the Accounting and
Auditing ROSC, the Country Assistance Strategy and the Country Economic Monitoring Report.
The macroeconomic framework and performance indicators for this operation were defined in
close collaboration with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
In designing ECAL IV, the team took into consideration the lessons learned from previous
operations and adapted the PDO and the indicators accordingly:
    · Tunisia's successful economic performance was due to three attributes: ownership and
        broad political consensus, a well-developed human resource base, and a stable
        macroeconomic environment.
    · Experience in privatization and the financial sector showed the need for the Bank to be
        flexible in its support, provided there is evidence of genuine and sustained reform efforts
        on the part of the Government. For example, by accepting partial reforms in some areas,
        and building on partial successes to further improve on the reforms in subsequent
        operations. Patience, perseverance and flexibility paid off.
    · An important lesson for other small emerging countries seeking to lay the foundations for
        sustainable growth and poverty reduction is Tunisia's success in laying the foundations
        for a competitive economy by the coordinated use of macro and structural policies and
        reforms.

In addition, the team used two design-related lessons from ECAL III:
    · The need to set clear and precise (measurable) loan conditions.
    · The need to step away from "transactions-related" loan conditions, in the context for
        instance of state divesture.

Assessment of the operation's design
The project was well conceived as a coherent follow-up of the previous ECAL operations. The
project team and the authorities designed this project around the accomplishments of previous
operations, but also around the realities of certain lingering weaknesses keeping Tunisia's
economy from developing at the rate of comparable middle income countries in other regions.
The project team and the authorities laid out a broad policy agenda and for the most part, set out
well balanced disbursement conditions.

Relevance of risks identified

Overall, the potential risks to the program have been correctly identified and the mitigation
options appear appropriate even if they rely heavily on a constant ownership and dedication to the
project on the part of the authorities. However, while the risks of oil price fluctuations on the
Country's trade balance were noted in the background analysis, their effect on the Country's
primary fiscal balance was not properly evaluated during the design of the macroeconomic
conditions. The increase in oil prices was underestimated and the regression in the level of energy
subsidies had not yet been started, therefore the objective of a positive primary fiscal balance was


                                                  8

only substantially met, consequently diminishing the expected progress in the reduction of the
public debt.

Risks identified                                    Mitigation measures
Unfavorable exogenous and/or endogenous shocks      Further   strengthening     the  macroeconomic
could hit the economy, with growth slowing          framework would help Tunisia reduce its
temporarily or permanently, depending on the        vulnerability      to     exogenous       shocks.
duration of the shocks. Regional instability and    Strengthened     fiscal   consolidation    would
increased concerns of terrorism attacks could       mitigate the external pressures on the current
affect Tunisia in the coming years, with            account over the medium term and help reduce
tourism failing to reach the expected levels,       public debt at a faster pace, thus boosting
and Tunisia losing some of its attractiveness for   investor confidence and improving terms of
foreign investors. At the same time, greater        foreign financing.
integration into global markets, will increase
exposure to volatility and put pressure on the
current account, increase competitive threats
and slow down growth. Such unfavorable
developments would be reflected in economic
performance falling short of the projections
underpinning the macroeconomic component
of the program.

The risk and its mitigation measure were very relevant as Tunisia's economy relied heavily on
Tourism and Agriculture, two sectors very vulnerable to exogenous and/or endogenous. The
stronger the macroeconomic framework, the less vulnerable the economy, the more likely the
country is to succeed in its reform agenda.
Weakening drive for reforms or slow pace of         Policy dialogue with the Government in the
change : A slowdown in the pace of reforms, in      context of the implementation of the CAS
particular a failure to strengthen the investment   could help maintain the reform momentum to
climate as needed in the face of stiffer            achieve the key expected outcomes and thus
competition     would      create   unsustainable   mitigate some of the risks attached to specific
external and budget imbalances, increase            components of the program. In addition, the
public and foreign debt, and lead to increasing     tranching of the operation will help maintain a
unemployment and lower FDI inflows                  strong momentum of reforms by balancing the
                                                    contents of the first and second
                                                    tranches
This risk might appear moderately relevant for a fourth operation in reform support. However, in
Tunisia, there is always a real risk of the possible slow down be it for political or economic
reasons. Endogenous and exogenous factors could affect the price of subsidized goods and
therefore the overall budget deficit, creating pressure for the authorities in their decision weather
to go forward with the reforms at the potential detriment of the population. Therefore the risk
identified can be qualified as relevant to the project.
Risk to specific program components: The            The Bank will work with the government of
pace of reduction of the level of NPLs would Tunisia to design and implement a tailored
depend on improvements in the relationship technical            assistance    program     aiming   at
between the banks and some key corporate strengthening institutional capacity to ensure
borrowers, some of which could have a vested effective implementation of the proposed
interest to oppose such NPL reduction. In reforms
addition, the role of the judiciary would be
central in ensuring the realization of guarantees
and loan collateral; expected improvements


                                                  9

could not materialize as quickly and firmly as
expected. As for the investment climate
component, private investors' reactions (both
in the onshore and in the offshore sectors) to
the progressive evolution of the incentives
framework will be key, including to comfort
the   Government's      reformist   stance  (and
hopefully to induce an even more ambitious
approach).
This risk was certainly relevant to the operation. One of the main aspects of the Financial Secor
Development component was the sensitive issue of the NPLs, essential to strengthen bank balance
sheets and to improve risk-taking behavior. However the authorities had expressed concerns that
stronger measures to clean-up the banks balance sheet might have a negative impact, across-the-
board, on the financing of the economy by the banking sector. They were concerned, in
particular, that SMEs might be disproportionately affected, with a negative impact on economic
growth and job creation. While it was not the case, the concern was certainly real and therefore
the risk of seeing the reduction of NPLs slow down was very relevant.

Technical capacity constraints. Notwithstanding     . The Bank will work closely with the
the overall high quality of Tunisian public authorities to ensure that the operation design
administration, some of the proposed areas of includes either the formal training or the
reforms (performance-based budgeting, debt informal             TA     potentially    required    to
management, financial markets) could be successfully implement all components of the
delayed by capacity constraints.                    project.
This risk was relevant as it is for almost all projects involving a high number of reforms to be
implemented. While the Tunisian authorities and the project team were used to this type of
operation and its requirements, the risk remains of not reaching the intended outcome due to a
capacity constraint.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
M&E Design: The policy matrix designed in consultation with the IMF gave an accurate picture
of Tunisia's microeconomic climate, measures accomplished, benchmarks yet to be reached as
well as program outputs linked to the loan. The PDO indicators were designed to measure
periodically the progress made towards attainment of the PDOs. However while the indicators
were relevant to the overall context of the project they did not reflect the PDO closely enough.
Therefore the quantitative monitoring and evaluation of the outcomes did not reach its full
potential.
M&E Implementation: The extensive knowledge and dialogue result of the previous ECAL
operations had a very positive effect on the coordination and continuity of the project. The ISRs
were delivered on time and comprehensive aide memoires were produced at the end of the
supervision missions, helping the Bank and the Government to better monitor progress and
reform implementation. The policy matrix and corresponding sections in the legal agreement
were an essential M&E tool however some of the data on job creation and life insurance contracts
was not collected until the end of the project. In future operations, it is essential for the project
team and the authorities to remain focused on the importance of insuring i) that all baseline data
is collected prior to project effectiveness and ii) that the updated information is collected on all
indicators no matter how well the implementation of the reforms is going.
M&E Utilization: The indicators selected for the M&E of the project served their intended
purpose when the data was provided in a timely manner. They provided the team and
management with an accurate reading of the progress made and were invaluable in the


                                                 10

compliance evaluation of the disbursement conditions, particularly in the evaluation of the
macroeconomic condition where the positive primary fiscal balance was not exactly met. The
regular update of the indicators along with the dialogue on-going with the authorities helped
management in their decision to rate the condition as substantially met and not request a waver.

2.4 Expected Next Phase/Follow-up Operation (if any):
The Tunisian authorities have expressed their desire to continue the collaboration with the World
Bank in their financial sector reform. The specifics of the future ECAL V project should be
discussed during the first quarter of 2008.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)
The mutually reinforcing development objectives to strengthen the macroeconomic framework
improve the private investment climate and reinforce the financial sector, were very much in line
with the Countries priorities and the Bank's Country assistance strategy. As this was the fourth in
a series of operations, the benchmarks were clear and the strategy used in the previous stages of
the reform implementation had proven to be successful.

The design of ECAL IV was the result of an extensive dialogue with the authorities and included
the recommendations of the FSAP and the Accounting and Auditing ROSC. As for ECAL III, the
loan and the policy matrix were designed, negotiated and adopted jointly by the World Bank, the
EU and the AfDB. The renewed association of the three institutions had a very positive impact on
design and implementation, the cooperation between the partners was excellent and the presence
of the EU and the AfDB in Tunisia allowed the project team to continue the policy dialogue with
the institutions involved in the implementation of the program of reform, but also ensured the
deployment of staff and consultants able to advise the government in all of the policy and
technical areas involved in the reforms.

3.2 Achievement of Program Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between policy actions supported by operations and
outcomes)
The PDOs of this project were achieved, and as described in section 2.1, in some respects, the
Government of Tunisia went beyond satisfying the disbursement conditions agreed upon at
project appraisal. More specifically:
(a) the macroeconomic framework has been strengthened and improved, in particular through
fiscal consolidation and strengthening the medium term fiscal framework; growth has reached
5.3 % which is a little under the programmed 5.5%, but still a marked improvement given the
international context. Unfortunately, due mainly to the very important increase in the price of oil,
inflation has gone from 2% in 2005 to 4.5% in 2006. Budget deficit continues to decrease and the
2007 "Loi des Finances" plans to reduce it to 3.1%. The objective of a positive primary fiscal
balance was almost met and the use of a medium term budget framework will help the authorities
in their annual budgeting. It should also help the government in its management of subsidies as
they clearly have an important effect on the budget.
(b) the private investment climate has been improved and the number of private investment
opportunities increased; the number of administrative authorizations for private investments and
the delays in granting the authorizations have been reduced. The rate of immediate VAT
reimbursement was increased to 35%, the total rate of reimbursement should reach 100% in 2008
and the fiscal law of December 18, 2006 re-balanced the rate of VATs to 6%, 12% and 18% for



                                                11

the standard rate and an action plan was prepared, addressing the reform of the taxation system in
Tunisia.
(c) the financial sector's capacity to finance growth has been strengthened, thanks to initiatives to
reduce the level of non-performing loans, strengthening of the regulatory framework for bank
intermediation, and the fostering of contractual savings, especially in the insurance sector. The
banking sector has been strengthened; the level of tax-exempts provisioning has been increased to
100% in order to improve the level of provisioning of NPLs, banks with insufficient level of
provisioning are mandated to affect 100% of their benefit to improve their provisioning. A study
was conducted and recently completed on assets recovery companies, non performing loans and
the options to accelerate their recovery and their guaranties. It should improve the banking
regulator's toolkit to foster enhanced provisioning, in particular by developing comparisons
between banks' provisioning practices. In addition, the Banque Centrale de Tunisie (BCT) has
considerably improved the prudential framework by adopting an administrative memo on internal
control addressing the management of risks linked to banking activities. The insurance sector was
strengthened; the situation of the Insurance supervisor was clarified and increased, the
restructuring of the sector was brought forward with the restructuring of the Societe Tunisienne
d'Assurance et de Reassurance (STAR) et le Groupe d'Assurances Mutuelles (MGA). Foreign
investors can now be majority owners in the capital of insurance companies, which will no doubt
increase the competition within the sector. Sixteen decrees have been adopted for the
implementation of the new law on automobile insurance, the automobile insurance civil
responsibility for the administered sector civil responsibility was increased by 10%. On the
Securities market front, the investor's trust in the reliability of companies' financial information
should have improved; the conseil du Marche Financier (CVM) issued a report on the compliance
with international auditing standards and on sanctions enforced in cases of non-compliance. A
law was adopted enhancing the sanction powers of the securities market regulator, increasing the
sanctions for securities offences, setting a framework for individual savings management, all
measures improving the transparency and respect of international standards of the securities
market sector.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs)
Rating: Satisfactory
The rating of satisfactory is justified by the fact that the project was and remains very relevant
and completely in line with the Country's priorities to improve its economic stability and
investment climate. The PDOs were achieved and will no doubt be further strengthened by the
follow-up operations.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project's objectives to improve competitiveness will have a direct and positive impact on
growth and ultimately job creation. In addition, the efforts made by the Government of Tunisia in
improving the private investment climate will certainly further the positive trend of the country's
social development. While the country would need a sustained growth of about 6.5% to reduce its
unemployment significantly, the estimated growth of 5.4% for 2006 (in a difficult international
context of slow growth in Europe, and sharp rise in oil prices) remains encouraging. An increase
in foreign and local private investments should help develop high skills sectors and help reduce
unemployment for skilled workers and people with a formal education. However, opening up for
more competition from imports could lead to the decline of currently protected activities and lay-
offs, which may hurt segments of the population. Fortunately, the program should better prepare



                                                   12

Tunisia's private sector to the impact of the full roll-over of the AAEU2. This operation aims
precisely at mitigating some of this potential short-term negative impact by improving up-stream
Tunisia's competitiveness and attractivity.
 The results of the 2005 Household Expenditure Survey were released in July 2007, showing
theaverage per capita incomes have increased significantly over time. They increased by 37.6
percent between 2000 and 2005 and have multiplied by 2.5 since 1990. Moreover, the gap
between Grand Tunis, the richest region, and the northwest and center west regions, the least
affluent ones, has narrowed. The project did not have a specific Gender component, but an overall
improvement of the employment context should ultimately have a positive impact gender
employment equality by bringing more women to the labor market and reducing the high level
(16%) of unemployment among thrm.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
This operation had a very important impact on Tunisia's long term capacity and institutional
development:
     ·           The financial disclosure framework has been enhanced
     ·           The transparency and the respect of international accounting standards have greatly
                 improved with the requirement for public companies to publish certified financial
                 statements.
     ·           The continued structural reform efforts and prudent demand management will help
                 keep inflation down and the current account broadly under control.
     ·           The continued fiscal consolidation efforts should help Tunisia come closer to
                 international standards by further reducing its public debt to GDP ratio.
     ·           The introduction of a rolling, medium term budget framework will help strengthening
                 medium-term expenditure planning.
     ·           The relationship between relationship between tax payers and the tax administration
                 has been improved thanks to the steps taken to normalize the VAT reimbursement
                 mechanisms.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
The project did not have unintended outcomes or impacts. The project was well designed and
performed as expected.

3.5 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optionalfor Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
     Rating: Negligible to low
The particular attention given to supporting the reform program, the clear commitment of the
authorities, and the excellent synergy between the WB, AfDB and the EU were essential stepping
stones for the sustainability of the Development outcomes. The progress made on almost all



2In 1995 the authorities signed an association agreement with the European Union (EUAA). The EUAA provides for a phased
establishment of a free trade zone in manufacturing over a 12-year period. By exposing the economy to the full force of EU
competition, the aim is to induce an adjustment in Tunisia's productive sectors as a basis for achieving a high and sustainable increase
in the growth rate, with substantial poverty reduction impacts. Maintaining sound macroeconomic and fiscal frameworks and adopting
international trade and investment procedures would accelerate the implementation of the EUAA.




                                                                 13

components of the operation demonstrate the focus of the authorities in moving along on the
reforms needed to provide the Country with the steady growth required to alleviate its
unemployment and poverty issues. The accomplishments are the result of reforms essential to the
Country's welfare, all involved are fully aware of it and will no doubt do all that is necessary to
preserve the present outcomes.
The Tunisian authorities will have to keep a close watch on the fiscal framework and the use of
subsidies through the "Fonds de solidarite" to prevent the primary fiscal balance from reverting to
negative numbers. A higher price for gas has been factored in the next medium term budget, but
the price of other subsidized goods such as the cereals have become very volatile and could
increase the expenditures beyond what ws planned and therefore worsen the budget deficit.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
    Rating: Satisfactory
The Bank team in cooperation with the AfDB and the EU and the borrower, designed a sound
project based on a large body of analytical work all advocating the strengthening of the
macroeconomic, private sector development and banking sectors. The project team paid particular
attention to ensuring quality at entry for this operation which was rated satisfactory by the Quality
at entry assessment team. The project was designed in close cooperation with the authorities
taking into account both technical and political aspects to ensure optimum adequacy of the
operation

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including M&E arrangements)
     Rating: Satisfactory
The very good design of the operation, the right choice of indicators and a very dedicated and
focused project team made for an effective supervision. All topics were reviewed during the
supervision missions to ensure that the appropriate actions were taken to meet the disbursement
conditions on time. However a higher rating could have been reached in this section of the
evaluation by insisting on the collection of data for the intermediary indicators during each of the
supervision missions.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
     Rating: Satisfactory
The rating of satisfactory is based on the following considerations: (i) the project was very well
designed, its PDO in line with the Country's and the Bank's priorities, the indicators were
relevant even if some of the data was not collected before the close of the project; (ii) the project
team's excellent dialogue with the authorities made it possible to tackle a sensitive issue such as
the bank's non performing loans in an effective way; (iii) the borrower and the co-financiers
maintained a very good level of cooperation that played a key role in the success of the operation

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
     Rating: Satisfactory




                                                  14

The borrower was very involved in the project from its concept to its completion report and
remained focused on the success of the Development Objective and its importance in improving
growth and stability in the Country.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
      Rating: Satisfactory
As this is the fourth loan of this type, the Ministry of Development and International Cooperation
(MDCI) demonstrated its experience in defining and communicating its priorities and objectives.
A long established dialogue between Tunisia, the World Bank and the other co-financiers allowed
for candid discussions on the conditions of the loan as well as their compatibility with the
Government's Xe and XIe plan. The MDCI also served as an efficient coordinator between the
different parties involved in the implementation of the project.
Prior to tranche disbursements, full documentation of compliance was provided to the Bank in a
timely manner. Going forward, the Bank and the authorities may want to focus more on the
quality and timeliness of the data to ensure thorough evaluation of the progress made.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
    Rating: Satisfactory
For the reasons listed above as well as the positive outcomes of the project, the Borrower's
performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both operation-specific and of wide general application)
The quality of dialogue and pro-activity in the advice provided to the borrower are essential to the
success of an operation. During ECAL IV, the team did an excellent job managing the dialogue
and offering the needed advice to the Tunisian authorities for the implementation of the reform
agenda supported by the loan. This was particularly complex given the fact that this project was
implemented in partnership with the AfDB and the European Union. This operation is a good
example of coordination and dialogue leading to the attainment of the desired development
outcomes. In addition, the excellent partnership and coordination between the Bank, the AfDB
and the EU make this project a best practice with respect to donor coordination.
(General application)

In future operations, further attention should given to the results framework. Coherence between
the PDO and the indicators is essential to an accurate measure of the work accomplished. In the
case of ECAL IV, baseline and progress data was not collected prior to the ICR mission for some
indicators. Therefore the data appears to be collected more in order to comply with a requirement
than motivated by a strong focus on impact and results. (General application)


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers
European Union:



AfDB:



                                                 15

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
N/A




                                           16

Annex 1 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                        Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending

Supervision
Catherine H. Burtonboy   Consultant                        MNSSD
Philippe De Meneval      E T Consultant                    MNSED
Ndiame Diop              Senior Economist                  MNSED
Jean Denis Pesme         Lead Financial Sector Speciali     FPDFI
Steve W. Wan Yan Lun     Senior Program Assistant          MNSED



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage
                                    No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                      20                        150.22
  FY05                                      21                        140.31
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
                        Total:              41                        290.53
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                      10                         65.31
  FY07                                       3                         10.98
                        Total:              13                         76.29




                                        17

Annex 2. Beneficiary Survey Results
         (if any)
N/A




                                    18

Annex 3. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
        (if any)




                                  19

Annex 4. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1. Facteurs majeurs ayant influencé la mise en application et les résultats
a)Pertinence de l'engagement de l'emprunteur (Gouvernement et autres partenaires le
cas échéant.)

Dans le cadre de ce programme, l'emprunteur a assuré la mise en oeuvre de réformes
d'envergure qui s'inscrivent en continuité des réformes mises en oeuvre dans le cadre des
trois actions et programmes précédents (PACE I, II et III).

Le PACE IV a concerné trois domaines de réformes :
1) Le climat de l'investissement privé à travers la réduction de certaines entraves à
l'investissement et particulièrement la réduction des autorisations administratives
préalables à l'investissement, la mise en place d'un cadre d'investissement plus incitatif
et plus transparent pour les acteurs économiques, à travers notamment le renforcement
des autorités de la concurrence et la simplification et l'amélioration du cadre fiscal.

2) Le secteur financier à travers (a) la poursuite de l'assainissement des bilans des
banques en vue de réduire le niveau élevé des créances douteuses, notamment par
l'augmentation des provisions et des radiations et cessions sur les créances accrochées
(b) le renforcement du contrôle sur le secteur des assurances et la poursuite de son
assainissement (c) l'amélioration de la gouvernance et de la transparence des sociétés
cotées ainsi que la qualité de l'information financière en vue de renforcer la fiabilité des
états financiers des entreprises.

3) Le maintien d'un cadre macroéconomique solide et réactif

b) Pertinence de l'analyse de fond, de la prise en compte des enseignements tires
d'opérations similaires et du rationnel d'intervention de la Banque Mondiale.

La préparation et l'élaboration des différentes mesures et axes sous-tendant le programme
ont été faites, principalement, sur la base des enseignements tirés des trois programmes
précédents qui ont permis la mise en oeuvre de réformes structurelles importantes
favorisant l'amélioration de la croissance et l'appui à la compétitivité de l'économie
tunisienne.

c) Pertinence des objectifs, de la conception, et de l'exécution (vis-à-vis des priorités
nationales et globales et de la stratégie de coopération de la Banque, du nombre
d'organisations faisant partie du projet, du nombre et de la complexité des politiques
soutenues par l'opération, le cas échéant, de son aspect innovateur, de la capacité de
l'agence en charge de l'exécution et des aspects sociaux, environnementaux et fiduciaires
de cette opération) :

Le quatrième prêt d'appui à la compétitivité de l'activité économique (PACE IV) appuie
un programme de réformes qui repose sur les objectifs nationaux tracés dans le Xème plan
de développement (2002-2006) ; les travaux préparatoires du XIème plan de



                                             20

développement (2007-2011) ainsi que sur les axes retenus dans la stratégie de
coopération de la banque et de la Tunisie (CAS).

d) Pertinence des risques identifiés lors de l'évaluation du projet et efficacité des
mesures adoptées pour y remédier.

L'évolution de la conjoncture internationale et particulièrement l'augmentation
vertigineuse des prix des hydrocarbures depuis l'année 2004 a eu des répercussions sur
l'activité économique et particulièrement sur l'équilibre budgétaire, ce qui a nécessité
l'adoption des mesures adéquates (aménagement des prix locaux, appui et sensibilisation
à la maîtrise de la consommation de l'énergie ...etc).

2. Performance de l'opération (une fois le projet terminer, indiquer ici les commentaires et
évaluation des points suivant. Le cas échéant, indiquer les enseignements a tirer de l'opération
qui vient de se terminer)

Le PACE IV appuie un ensemble de réformes incluant des mesures devant permettre
d'améliorer le climat de l'investissement privé, renforcer la concurrence, consolider la
capacité du secteur financier à financer la croissance et de maintenir un cadre
macro-économique stable et réactif.

Plus concrètement, les actions mises en oeuvre ont permis de lever certaines entraves à
l'investissement à travers la réduction des autorisations administratives préalables à
l'investissement, le renforcement des autorités de la concurrence et l'amélioration du
cadre de l'environnement fiscal (augmentation du taux d'avance sur « le remboursement
immédiat » de la TVA etc).

Au niveau du système bancaire, les réformes mises en oeuvre ont permis de réduire le
poids des créances en souffrance à travers la défiscalisation totale des provisions,
l'obligation pour les banques qui affichent des insuffisances de provisions d'affecter la
totalité de leurs résultats disponibles pour la couverture des dites insuffisances et ce,
jusqu'à leur résorption totale et l'adoption par la BCT de règles prudentielles spécifiques
aux concours accordés aux entreprises ne respectant pas les conditions de transparence
prévues par la loi sur la sécurité financière.


Au niveau du secteur des assurances, le contrôle exercé par ce secteur s'est renforcé à
travers la mise en place d'un contrôle permanent et l'assainissement du secteur s'est
poursuivi à travers la restructuration de la STAR et de la MGA et par l'achèvement de
l'assainissement du secteur de l'assurance automobile outre l'élimination de la restriction
à la participation majoritaire des investisseurs étrangers au capital des compagnies
d'assurance à travers l'amendement du code des assurances.

Au niveau du marché financier les actions sont relatives notamment à l'application par
les entreprises faisant appel public à l'épargne des normes comptables relatives à la
consolidation des états financiers et à l'adoption de la loi relative au renforcement de la
sécurité des relations financières.


                                                21

Au niveau du cadre macroéconomique, les résultats concernent la réalisation des objectifs
macroéconomiques retenus lors de la préparation du programme, l'adoption de
dispositions fiscales confortant un rapprochement des cadres d'incitation, la formulation
d'un cadre budgétaire à moyen terme sur trois ans publié dans le budget économique
2007, le solde primaire hors dons et privatisations serait positif à partir de 2009 et la
création d'une structure chargée de la gestion intégrée de la dette extérieure.

Ces différentes actions sont de nature à permettre une exploitation et un entretien efficace
du programme dans la mesure où il s'agit d'actions et de mesures structurelles touchant
des aspects pertinents de l'économie tunisienne et dont l'impact sur les performances
économiques ne peut être que certain ; comme en témoignent les résultats
macroéconomiques enregistrés.

3. Résultats (Dans cette section, décrivez votre évaluation des éléments ci-dessous)

(a) Accomplissement des objectifs de développement du projet

Les mesures conditionnant le décaissement du prêt ont été remplies dans leur totalité. Les
documents y afférents ont été remis aux bailleurs de fonds.
Les objectifs de développement que comporte le projet ont été atteints dans une large
mesure. En effet, le climat de l'investissement privé s'est amélioré du fait que le nombre
des autorisations administratives préalables à l'investissement a baissé, le cadre fiscal a
été simplifié et s'est amélioré à travers, notamment, le rééquilibrage des taux de TVA et
l'augmentation du taux d'avance sur le «remboursement immédiat » de la TVA et la mise
en place d'un plan d'action pour le rapprochement des cadres d'incitation à
l'investissement.

Au niveau du secteur bancaire, le niveau élevé des créances en souffrance a été réduit
avec l'objectif d'atteindre 15% de créances classées à l'horizon 2009 et 12% en 2011 au
terme du XIème plan de développement. Le contrôle sur le secteur des assurances s'est
renforcé notamment par la mise en place du contrôle permanent. L'assainissement du
secteur des assurances s'est poursuivi à travers la restructuration de la STAR et de la
MGA et à travers l'achèvement de l'assainissement du secteur de l'assurance automobile.

Sur le plan macroéconomique, les résultats enregistrés attestent dans une large mesure de
l'impact favorable des réformes entreprises sur les performances de l'économie
tunisienne.

(b) Thèmes globaux, autres résultats et impacts (le cas échéant, lorsqu'ils n'ont pas été
couverts précédemment ou pour élargir la discussion ci-dessus)

(c) Impact sur la pauvreté, aspects liés au genre, et développement social

Le programme de réformes lié au PACE IV ne comporte pas de composantes à caractère
social. Cependant des mesures telles que celles relatives à l'amélioration du climat de
l'investissement privé et l'accroissement des opportunités d'investissement privé, le



                                                22

renforcement du cadre macroéconomique et de la capacité du secteur financier à financer
l'économie constituent autant de facteurs devant favoriser les créations d'emploi, la
réduction de la pauvreté et le développement social d'une manière générale.

(d) Changement/renforcement institutionnel (notamment en référence aux impacts sur la
capacité à long terme et le développement institutionnel):

Le programme de réformes devra favoriser à long terme, notamment, le renforcement de
la concurrence, l'amélioration de la transparence et de la gouvernance des entreprises et
la libéralisation du secteur des assurances.
Sur le plan institutionnel, le programme devra permettre de renforcer l'efficacité de
l'organisme de contrôle et de supervision de l'assurance, de favoriser l'ouverture du
marché de l'assurance aux investisseurs étrangers et de poursuivre l'assainissement de
compagnies d'assurance encore en difficulté.
Le programme permettra, également, d'améliorer la qualité des informations financières
sur le marché des valeurs mobilières et d'évaluer la performance des sociétés de
recouvrement en vue d'adopter des mesures pertinentes.

(e) Résultats et impacts non intentionnels (positifs et négatifs):

Il importe de signaler à ce niveau que, pour certaines mesures, les réalisations ont été au-
delà des conditions fixées dans le programme. A titre d'exemple, l'ont note que le
nombre des autorisations administratives restantes est de 115 à la date de la dernière
mission de supervision alors que la mesure 1.2 prévoyait la réduction du nombre
d'autorisations à moins de 120 seulement. De même certaines mesures prévoyaient la
présentation d'un projet de loi et en définitive la mesure est satisfaite à travers la
promulgation d'une loi.

6. Enseignements tirés (spécifiques au projet et d'application générale)

En se fondant sur les descriptions et analyses des sections précédentes liées à la
conception, l'exécution et les résultats de l'opération, et sur l'évaluation des
performances de la Banque, de l'Emprunteur et des parties prenantes, cette section doit
décrire brièvement les enseignements essentiels, négatifs et positifs tirés de l'expérience
de l'opération.   Le RA devra indiquer comment ces enseignements sont pris en compte
dans les mesures prises pour les opérations de post-achèvement des investissements
financés, les opérations de suivi et/ou les autres étapes. Les RA devra indiquer également
quels enseignements sont d'application générale pour des opérations similaires dans le
secteur/sous-secteur, le pays ou d'autres pays.)

Le PACE IV comprend un ensemble de mesures devant compléter les réformes et actions
mises en oeuvre dans le cadre des trois programmes précédents. Le présent programme a
appuyé des actions de réformes dans les secteurs privé, financier et du commerce
(concurrence).

Concrètement, le programme a permis de lever certaines entraves à l'investissement,
d'améliorer l'environnement fiscal de l'investissement, d'assainir davantage le système


                                              23

bancaire et le secteur des assurances, d'améliorer la transparence des sociétés cotées et la
qualité de l'information financière tout en maintenant un cadre macro-économique stable
et réactif.

Les enseignements à tirer de ce programme ont trait particulièrement aux aspects
suivants :
    1. La vigilance est requise dans le choix des indicateurs qui devraient refléter d'une
        manière pertinente la teneur des mesures liées au programme. Ils devraient être
        fixés, également, d'une manière assez flexible (à l'intérieur d'une fourchette à
        titre d'exemple) afin de tenir compte des retournements de conjoncture, le cas
        échéant.
    2. Il importe d'entamer une discussion sur la nécessité de distinguer entre les
        conditions de « décaissement » et les « autres » conditions.
    3. Etudier la possibilité de concevoir un cadre d'évaluation sur un horizon
        relativement long qui pourrait couvrir tous les programmes mis en oeuvre. Cela
        permettra de bien cibler les réformes futures.

7. Performance de la Banque dans le travail de préparation du projet (très satisfaisante,
satisfaisante, moyenne, non performante) :

La performance de la Banque est globalement satisfaisante. Le programme a été bien
préparé en étroite coordination avec les autres bailleurs de fonds (UE et BAD) et le
gouvernement tunisien.

La supervision du programme a été suivie minutieusement en coordination avec les autres
bailleurs de fonds. la Banque a fait preuve de souplesse quant à la mesure relative à la
réalisation d'un solde primaire hors dons et privatisations positifs à partir de 2008 sur la
base de la note présentée par le gouvernement tunisien relative au report du résultat
primaire positif de 2008 à 2009 compte tenue de l'impact sur le budget de l'Etat de
l'augmentation vertigineuse et non prévisible des prix des hydrocarbures.

8. Performance de l'emprunteur :

La performance de l'emprunteur est jugée satisfaisante car il a mis en place des réformes
d'envergure dans le cadre de ce programme qui confortent et mettent en exergue, encore
une fois, les efforts déployés en vue de maintenir un rythme de réformes soutenu et
continu en vue d'améliorer la compétitivité de son économie.




                                            24

Annex 5. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    25

Annex 6: Intermediary outcome indicators
Intermediate outcome     Baseline            End    of             End of
indicator(s)             value               project               Project
                                             value                 Target
                                                                   value
1. Macroeconomic         4.2      12/31/2003 5.3       06/30/2007  6.0     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
GDP Growth
2. Macroeconomic         3.6      12/31/2003 5         06/30/2007  6.4     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Non Agricultural GDP
growth
3. Macroeconomic         0.3      12/31/2003 4.9       06/30/2007  5.8     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Exports of goods and
services growth
(constant prices)
4. Macroeconomic         1.7      12/31/2003 7.9       06/30/2007  5.9     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Imports of goods and
services growth
(constant prices)
5. Macroeconomic         -3.0     12/31/2003 -2.4      06/30/2007  -3.0    06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Current account balance
(% of GDP)
6. Macroeconomic         -3.2     12/31/2003 5.1       06/30/2007  8.0     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Investment growth
7. Macroeconomic         23.4     12/31/2003 22        06/30/2007  24.0    06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Investment rate (% of
GDP)
8. Macroeconomic         56.5     12/31/2003 56        06/30/2007  57.5    06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Private Investment (% of
total)
9. Macroeconomic         2.8      12/31/2003 4.5       06/30/2007  3.0     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Inflation (Consumer
Price Index)
10. Macroeconomic        14.3     12/31/2003 14.2      06/30/2007  12.6    06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Unemployment rate
11. Macroeconomic        -3.2     12/31/2003 -2.9      06/30/2007  -2.6    06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Fiscal balance (excl.
grants & privatizations)
(% of GDP)
12. Macroeconomic        -0.5     12/31/2003 0.4       06/30/2007  0.0     06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Primary fiscal balance
(excl. grants &
privatizations) (% of



                                            26

GDP)
13. Macroeconomic        60.4  12/31/2003 56.4   06/30/2007  58.3  06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Total public debt (% of
GDP)
14. Macroeconomic        64.4  12/31/2003 54.6   06/30/2007  51.5  06/30/2007
performance indicators /
External debt (% of
GDP), including external
short-term debt.
15. Macroeconomic        2.9   12/31/2003 3.5    06/30/2007  3.5   06/30/2007
performance indicators /
Foreign exchange
reserves (imports in
months)




                                         27

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Tunisia CAS
ECAL IV Loan Agreement
ECAL IV Project Document
ISRs
Aide memoires
Tranche release documents.




                                    28

