Of'FICIAL
DOCUMEWTS
The World Bank                                  1818 H Street N.W.   (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECC NSTRUCTION /,ND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION           U.S.A.               Cable Address: INDEVAS
December 20, 2012
H. E. Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasool
Minister of Finance and National Ecoiomv
Khartoum, Republic of the Sudan
M3TF - NS Grant No. TF057324
Second Amendment to Decentralized Health System Development Project
Excellency,
We refer to the Agreement dated October 29, 2006 (as amended) between the Republic of the Sudan (the
Recipient) and the International Devclopmient Association (World Bank), acting as administrator of grant
funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for the Sudan (MDTF-NS). We also
refer 10 your letter dated March 13, 20 12 requesting restructuring and provision of additional financing to the
Project.
We are pleased to inform you that the World Bank agrees to your request. Consequently, the
Agreement is amended as follows:
I. The first paragraph of the Letter A greement is amended to read as follows:
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Republic of the Sudan
("Recipient"), I am pleased to it forrr you that the International Development Association ("World
Bank"), acting as administrator )f grant funds provided by various donors under the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund for Sudan (MDTF-NS), proposes to extend to the Recipient ("Member Country"), a grant
in an amount not to exceed fcurteen million United States Dollars (US$14,000,000) ("Grant")
consisting of six million United States Dollars (USD 6,000, 000) in original grant, six million United
States Dollars (USD 6,000,000) i i first additional grant and two million United States Dollars (USD
2,000,000) in second additions I grant on terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
agreement ("Agreement"), whict includes the attached Annex, to assist in the financing the project
described in the Annex ("Project"). This Grant is funded out of the above mentioned trust fund for
which the World Bz.nk receives periodic contributions. In accordance with Section 3.02 of the
Standard Conditions (as defined in tEe Annex to this Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the
Crant proceeds subject to the ava lability of such funds.
2. The reference to Standard Conditi)ns in Section 1.01 of the Annex is revised as follows:
.Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out of Various
Funds dated February 15, 2)12 ("Standard Conditions") constitute an integral part of this
Agreement."


﻿3. P iragraph 1.02(k) is modified to road as follows:
(k) "Target States" means the states of South Kordofan, North Kordofan, Blue Nile, Kassala and
Red Sea in the Recipient's admin strat.ve system as established in its applicable legal framework.
4. Project description at Section 2.0] of the Annex is amended to read as follows:
Part 1:   Expandin Access to PrimaryHealth Care by Underserved Populations
(a)    Expanding coverage nd c uality of maternal and neonatal health services in rural areas of
the Target States, through: (i) strengthening the existing network of midwifery training schools; (ii)
provision of a package of inceutiveE for the trained village midwives (including basic medical
materials and supplies, payment f)r services rendered, access to continuous training, and
supervision); and (iii; carrying oit measures to increase the demand for and utilization of maternal
health services at the community evel
Part 2:   Establishing the Basi; for Reform and Development of the Decentralized Health System
(a)    Capacity-building anJ technical assistance to support reforms in health sector including
policy work related to decentralizati)n o  responsibility for village midwives and provision Operating
Costs related to maternal death reviews and s.
(b) Management and     ccordination  of the  Project activities  at the  federal and
Target State levels.
5. S.ction 2.02 of the Annex is amended to read as follows:
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall
carry out the Project through the Federal Ministry of Health in accordance with the provisions of: (a)
Article II of the Standard Condi ions; (b) the "Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and
Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants", dated October 15, 2006
and revised in January 2011 ("Anti-Corruption Guidelines"); and (c) this Article 11.
6. Section 2.06 (a) of the Annex to t[e Agreement is amended to read as follows:
(i)   Section I of the ""Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January
2011 ("Procurement Guidelines"), in the case of goods and works;
(ii)   Sections I aid IV of "Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-
consulting Services inde- IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated Ja muary 2011 ("Consultant Guidelines"), in the case of consultants'
services; and
(iii)  the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the procurement
plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in
accordance with paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.25 of
the Consultant Guidelines ("Procurement Plan")."
7. The disbursement table set forth in Section 3.01 of the Annex is deleted and replaced with the table
se: forth in Attachment A to this Letter of Amendment.
2


﻿8. A new paragraph is added to Section 3.02 of the Annex stating as follows:
(d) for payments made prior tc the date of countersignature by the Recipient of the Letter of
Amendment for second amendment to the Grant, except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed four hundred thousand United Stated Dollars (USD 400,000) equivalent may be made
for payments made pior to this date but on or after July 1, 2012 for Eligible Expenditures under
Category (7).
9. For purposes of Sectio1 3.03 of the Annex, the Closing Date shall read June 30, 2013.
Please confirm your agreement w-th th. foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, and
retumn g to us the enclosed copy of this Letter of Amendment. Upon receipt by the World Bank of the copy
of this Letter of Amendment countersijned by you, this Letter of Amendment will become effective as of the
date of countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:    1,,____Laic __
YousifElfadil
Acting Country Manager for the Sudan
AGREED:
REPL3LIC OF THE SUDAN
Y ~     L                     Date:___     ___
H. E. Ali Mahmoud Abdel Rasool
Minister of Finance and National Econ )my
3


﻿ATTACHMENT A
Categcy                       Arrount of the    Amount of the Second  % of
Ori ginal md First  Additional Grant  Expenditures to be Financed
Additional Grant  Allocated
Allocated         (in US Dollars
(in_JS D;rs)
(1) Works (pro memoria)        0.0)                                  100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90% of
local expenditures for
items procured locally
(2) Goods (pro memoria)        1.,2 50,608.97                        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 90% of local
expenditures for items
procured locally
100% of foreign expenditures
(3) Consultants' Services,     360,922.75                            and 90% of local expenditures
including audits and Training (pro
memoria)
(4) Operating Costs (pro       28,568.28                             100%
memoria)
(5) Unallocated                0.0)
(6) Goods, Works, Operating Costs  10,350,800.00                     100% (exclusive of taxes)
and Consultant Services, inc.uding
audits and Training
(7) Goods, Works, Operating Costs                2,000,000.00
and Consultant Services, including
audits and Training
TOTAL                          12,)00,000.00
For purposes of the above aragraph:
(i) the term "foreign expenditt res" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that
of the Recipient for gooc s or serviccs str 'plied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Recipient; (ii) the term 'local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures,
provided, however, that if the currenc./ of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of
which goods or services ire supplied, expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be foreign expenditures; and (iii) the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses
incurred on account of Project impletr entation and supervision, including for office support, office supplies,
office rent, communication expenses, maintenance of vehicles, and transportation expenses, but excluding
salaries of officials of the Recipient's civil service.
4


