Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23266
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28020; PPFI-P8630; PPFI-P8631; PPFI-P8632; TF-26647; TF-21586; TF-20404)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.1 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ANGOLA
FOR A
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
January 30, 2001
Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 22, 2002)
Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz) Z)
I Kz = US$ 0.04
US$ I = Kz 33.22
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CBO                     Community Based Organization
FAS                     Fundo de Apoio Social (Social Action Fund)
GMCVP                   Gabinete de Monotorizaa  o das Condif6es de Vida da Populaao
OA                     Governt of Angola
IGA                         mmGenerating Activities
ICB                        temational Competitive Bidding
IDA                        terational Development Association
INE _nstituto Nacional de Estatistica
MIS                        anagement Information System
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NCU                      National Coordination Unit of the FAS
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD                    Norwegian Agency of Development
PHRD                     Poiyand Human Resources Development Facility (Japanese Grant)
PPF                   _Poect Preparation Facility_
SAR                   .SafAppraisal Report
SIDA                     Swedish International Development Agency
UNDP                     United Nations Development Program
UNICEF                   United Nations Children's Fund
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Darius Mans
Sector Manager:   Arvil Van Adams
Task Team Leader     Laura Frigenti



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANGOLA
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                13
6. Sustainability                                                                    15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   18
9. Partner Comments                                                                  19
10. Additional Information                                                           29
Annex 1. Key Perfonnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                39
Annex 8. Detailed FAS Project Data                                                   40
Annex 9. Administrative Cost of FAS                                                  45
Annex 10. Detailed List of Studies prepared by GMCVP                                 46
Annex 11. Borrower's ICR - original version in Portuguese, with attachments          47
Annex 12. Translation of Aide-memoire from ICR mission (October 2001)                59
Map IBRD No. 24288
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000061                                       Project Name: SOCIAL ACTION
Team Leader: Elca Rosenberg                               TL Unit: AFTH3
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: January 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: SOCIAL ACTION                                  L/C/TF Number: IDA-28020;
PPFI-P8630;
PPFI-P8631;
PPFI-P8632;
TF-26647; TF-21586;
TF-20404
Country/Department: ANGOLA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector. SA - Social Assistance; SF - Social Funds
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/23/1994                             Effective: 03/18/1996         03/21/1996
Appraisal:  00/00/0000                                MTR: 03/30/1998           03/23/1998
Approval:  12/21/1995                              Closing: 12/31/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF ANGOLA/MINISTRY OF PLANNING
Other Partners:  The Netherlands, Italy, Sweden, Norway and Japan
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                               Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Arvil Van Adams                           Roger Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:  Laura Frigenti                            Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo
ICR Primary Author:  Elca Rosenberg
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Safisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HtlN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substanbal, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project aimed to assist Angola in its transition from war to peace, targeting people impoverished by the
military and economic crisis through financing community initiatives and building capacity for poverty
analysis and monitoring. Its objectives were to: (a) improve access to basic services through the provision
or rehabilitation of community infrastructure; (b) generate additional income and employment through
revenue generating micro-projects; (c) improve NGOs' and communities' capacity to plan, manage and
maintain investments through experience gained in the project; (d) enhance the capacity of Angolan
institutions to collect and analyze poverty related data; and (e) provide better understanding of the main
causes of poverty in order to help formulate effective poverty alleviation strategies.
At the time of appraisal, as well as during project implementation, these objectives responded to clear
priorities and were the appropriate ones on which to focus in a social development project. The country was
destroyed by years of civil war, poverty and unemployment were wide-ranging, the communities were not
accustomed to receiving any government support, there was evident conmmunity demand for micro-credit,
and the planning and implementation of social sector programs by the Government badly needed at least a
minimun of up-to-date and reliable data on poverty-related issues.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Although the situation in Angola changed dramatically over the life of the project, the project concept
proved to be sufficiently flexible to adapt to changing circumstances and the project's objectives were not
officially changed. The project concept was discussed in March 1994 and appraised in 1995 after
Angola's warring parties, the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA) and the National
Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), signed the Lusaka Protocol. This November 1994
accord called for a new ceasefire, demobilization of UNITA troops, UNITA participation in government,
and establishment of a UN peacekeeping force. It was followed in 1995 by a donor roundtable which
raised about $1.0 billion in pledges to support the peace process. Throughout 1996, when the UN
peacekeeping force reached 7,500 troops and civilians, and 1997, when UNITA joined a Government of
Unity and National Reconciliation, most observers of the situation in Angola believed that a sustained
peace was being established and that development assistance would soon engage most of the country once
again. FAS was designed with such expectations in mind. But these expectations were defeated in 1998,
when UNITA was suspended from parliament, government forces attacked UNITA headquarters in the
central highlands, and the Lusaka Accords collapsed. At this point, the FAS team had already completed
the mid-term review. Responding to these developments, the Bank decided to suspend new lending to
Angola, with the result that the preparation of FAS II (which had been pre-appraised in October 1998) was
put on hold and the FAS I team had to curtail the approval and implementation of sub-projects and cut
operational costs pending clarity about FAS's future.
Despite this incredibly fluid and challenging environment, the FAS structure proved to be flexible enough
to remain relevant and responsive throughout its life. Only sub-component (b)--concerning
income-generating activities--was discontinued, and this was done principally because the sub-component,
which was included initially only in a piloting sense, proved to be too ambitious in Angola's uncertain
operating environment. In retrospect, this sub-component should have been described as "testing the
potential to generate income and employment through revenue-generating micro-projects".
- 2 -



3.3 Original Componzents:
To achieve the above objectives, the credit would finance, over a four-year period, operational costs,
infrastructure rehabilitation and construction, equipment and vehicles, training activities, surveys and
studies for two main components: (a) a Social Action Fund component to be executed by the FAS (93.5
percent of total project costs) to finance sub-projects identified, prepared, and implemented by local
communities, and to be appraised and supervised by the FAS; and (b) a Poverty Monitoring component to
be executed by the Office for Monitoring Living Conditions of the Population (GMCVP), to finance
research on poverty and social issues and do systematic poverty monitoring through household surveys.
GMCVP was an office to be created within the National Statistics Institute (INE), specially to implement
that component of the project.
The first component -FAS- would fund: (i) social infrastructure, such as repair or construction of primary
and secondary schools, primary health care facilities, water supply and sanitation works; (ii) productive
infrastructure, such as repair or construction of markets, storage facilities and conservation plants for
agriculture, livestock or fisheries, and irrigation canals; (iii) economic infrastructure, such as repair of
small roads and bridges; and (iv) revenue-generating sub-projects for community-based groups,
particularly those representing women, ranging from handicrafts to agricultural production.
The second component -GMCVP- would fund: (i) household and community surveys, including an
expenditure and income survey in 1996, a second priority survey on living conditions, and a self-standing
community survey; (ii) a study program, for studies on assessing socioeconomic and social policies and
social action programs, identifying the most vulnerable groups and measuring their welfare, and analyzing
poverty issues; (iii) research through technical assistance and training; (iv) assessment of the social sectors'
statistical system; (v) creation and maintenance of a database on poverty and related social issues; and (vi)
dissemination of social policy information.
The serious social development needs of the country at the time, the problems faced by traditional
government agencies to cope with them, and the lack of proper data to provide informed decisions and
assist in planning the responses, validate the importance of the activities that were to be pursued under the
project. In view of the capacity problems of the central and local governments in providing support,
communities themselves had to develop and implement their critically needed infrastructure.
FAS was the first social fund implemented in Angola, and the project was designed to take into account the
constraints of a first generation operation. The instrument was new and its functioning had to be
understood by government and non-government agencies; human capital needed to be developed;
communities had to be mobilized; and systems and procedures had to be put in place. In spite of the
difficulties, there was one enabling condition: when the dialogue with the Bank started, the FAS agency
had already been officially created within the Ministry of Planning, and was ready to take responsibility for
the FAS component of the project.
As far as the FAS component is concemed, its design was carefully thought through to adjust and respond
to the adverse circumstances prevailing at the time. The design included some strategic options such as: i)
a decentralized system to cope with the large regional differences and the communication problems among
regions due to the war; ii) limiting activities to the secure provinces and clustering them initially in a
limited number of communities within provinces; iii) focusing on creating social capital and on mobilizing
communities to fully participate in the process; and iv) creating technical coordination bodies, at the central
and provincial levels, that would function independently of the political process, and that would assist the
overall strategic planning of activities.
-3 -



3.4 Revised Components:
All project activities were eventually implemented, some to a greater extent than others.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
There was a substantial difference in implementation readiness between the two components. The FAS
component was ready for immediate take-off, since the FAS had been established in late-94, and, with
partial funding from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF, approved in 1993) was already active in four
out of Angola's 18 provinces. This was facilitated by studies and technical assistance funded under a
Japanese PHRD grant, and included arrangements for two leading FAS staff to go on a study tour to
Guatemala and El Salvador, two other post-conflict countries with well-functioning social funds operating
in a decentralized and politically neutral way. This visit was informative, helped address many issues, and
led to key sound strategic design choices. However, preparation did not cover piloting IGA sub-projects,
the reason why these sub-projects had a slow start. In addition, as described below, preparation did not put
sufficient emphasis on the need for comprehensive community training, doable monitoring and evaluation,
and environmental assessment.
Contrary to the FAS component, the Poverty Monitoring component had no precedence, and had to await a
variety of disbursement requirements, including a basic one, such as approval by the Council of Ministers
of a draft ministerial decree modifying INE's Statutes; this component was not ready for implementation at
the time of Board presentation.
The project's quality at entry should be considered from several perspectives:
Relevance: The project objectives were consistent with the needs of the country, the Government's
development strategy, and the Bank's assistance strategy for Angola. Because of the war in the country,
there was no formal Country Assistance Strategy. Nevertheless, all country team members agreed at the
time that social development activities aimed at poor communities were a priority, independently of the role
that the social fund could play within a future country strategy.
Knowledge and Lessons Learned: The project's FAS component was designed on the basis of experience
and lessons learned from other social fund operations, as well as from the implementation experience
gained from the PPF-funded start of the FAS. These included the need to: (a) ensure administrative
autonomy to avoid political interference; (b) fund small, simple sub-projects with substantial community
involvement; (c) improve procurement and disbursement procedures; (d) establish transparent management
of sub-project identification, approval and supervision, as well as a computerized management system at
the provincial level; (e) work with partners involved in development activities, in particular NGOs and
churches; (f) recruit personnel with experience in social communication; and (g) initiate information,
education and communication activities even before starting the project activities. Through the PPF-funded
experiences, it was possible to assess most of the relevant technical aspects of the FAS component,
although more could have been done to better plan the IGA pilot sub-projects.
The Poverty Monitoring component was agreed upon at the last moment of project preparation, which
contributed to its slow start. Among other reasons, its take-off was affected by the lack of knowledge by
the GMCVP of Bank procedures and policies.
Role of local team: Project preparation was carried out by the Government and FAS staff, funded under
the PPF. The high quality and commitment of the FAS team was extremely important in ensuring that the
- 4 -



project was well prepared in spite of all difficulties. In this respect, it is worth mentioning the limited
capacity of the country's civil society organizations at the time, which prevented the FAS from involving
many NGO's at the beginning of the project preparation activities; there were few NGOs, and most of them
had a relief-oriented mandate.
Consultation: Although various communities were visited and final beneficiaries were interviewed
during the preparation process, the consultation was affected by the country's poor security
situation.
Sustainability: To promote sustainability, the appraisal of community-managed sub-projects was designed
to ensure that: (i) sub-projects had proof of government commitment to funding of operation and
maintenance of completed works; (ii) communities had established a maintenance committee and shown a
sense of ownership; (iii) communities would contribute through the provision of labor, materials, and/or
cash; and (iv) earlier approved sub-projects in those communities were properly maintained. In addition,
the approval by FAS of certain sub-projects, particularly of health and education facilities, required an
agreement with the line ministries and other agencies to provide staff, supplies, and supervision for the
operation of the infrastructure. At appraisal, both the govermnent and the Bank teams were confident that
resources would be made available to implement these agreements to guarantee the sustainability of the
sub-projects. Sustainability of IGA sub-projects would be ensured by: (i) the development of sound
business plans at their conception; (ii) the sub-project's obvious value to the beneficiary; and (iii) the
beneficiary's sense of ownership. In hindsight, more attention should have been paid to ensuring the links
and integration of the Poverty Monitoring component's results in the Government's longer-term decision
process.
Commitment: The Government's commitment was reflected in its agreement to establish FAS as an
autonomous agency, to allow for the recruitment of well-paid and qualified staff, and to provide budgetary
support. The commitment remained for the duration of the project, and was renewed for a follow-up
operation (FAS II). In addition, FAS' sense of ownership was beyond doubt. The country officials who
initiated the discussions on the project, remained throughout preparation and implementation. They
adhered to FAS' ideals, systems, and plans, and now are proud of their accomplishments. However,
counterpart funding was sometimes late, and the expected support from sector agencies was not always
sufficient.
Acknowledging that the major component had been well prepared, quality at entry was on balance
considered satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievements:
Overall, the project outcome is satisfactory. All but one of the objectives described in section 3.1 were
achieved. The FAS component did provide and improve a program of community infrastructure, and did
improve the capacity of communities and NGOs to plan, manage, and, to some extent, maintain
investments. Only the sub-projects related to IGA were discontinued before project completion; the
sub-objective related to income generation, therefore, was not achieved. The Poverty Monitoring
component started late, and was processed with some friction, but was eventually implemented (although
requiring an extension of the closing date to allow completion of its implementation). It did enhance the
capacity of Angolan organizations and individuals to collect and analyze poverty-related data, and helped
- 5 -



provide new information and a slightly better understanding of the main causes of poverty to help formulate
effective poverty alleviation strategies.
The fact that neither of the project's components was able to cover all of the originally intended provinces
was quite understandable in view of the renewed outbreak of hostilities and the resulting poor security
situation. Although the Government was interested in moving into more provinces, and had the agreement
of the FAS team to do so, they all finally appreciated the Bank's position that it did not make sense to go
ahead expanding FAS to areas which were not yet completely secure. Realizing that the anticipated peace
accords were not becoming effective, and that the conflict was still present in a number of provinces, the
Bank team firnly believed that the project should not invest resources in areas where the physical integrity
of those investments could not be protected, and/or where the safe operation and use of the facilities could
not be guaranteed.
Besides facing difficult conditions within the country, the project also had to adjust to the Bank's decision
in late 1998 to stop all new lending to Angola. At that time, FAS was operating at full speed and was
expected to exhaust all of its funds well before the closing date, scheduled for December 31, 2000. To
respond to this high performance, the Government and Bank started the preparation of FAS II soon after
the mid-term review, with pre-appraisal taking place in October 1998. However, soon thereafter, when the
Bank halted preparation of all new projects, FAS had to revisit its strategy for the coming months, as well
as its projected spending patterns. It was decided that FAS would have to slow down the approval and
implementation of new sub-projects, and to curtail its operational costs in order to survive until a final
decision regarding the continuation of the project could be reached. During this period of uncertainty, one
of the FAS regional offices was closed and merged with another one, staff salaries were temporarily
lowered, and sub-projects were significantly reduced. Although the situation was difficult, the project
continued to work, owing to the major effort put forward by the FAS and the Bank teams to obtain
additional support from other donors, ensuring at least some resources to continue commitments.
FAS has operated in nine provinces, and is perceived by Government, NGOs, donors, and communities as
being successful in providing small-scale priority infrastructure and, increasingly, the capacity building
needs of the poor communities with which FAS was involved. This was confmned by the Beneficiary
Assessment, carried out in 1998-1999, which stated that: (i) communities were well-informed about FAS;
(ii) communities were satisfied with the sub-projects selected and the selection process; and (iii) in almost
all communities where FAS sub-projects were being implemented, the vast majority of the respondents
considered themselves beneficiaries of those sub-projects. Unfortunately, this was not sector-specific, and
did not provide any information related to impact assessment.
This was a first-generation social fund, and as such offered a good learning opportunity for follow-up
projects; because it performed well, it set the stage for an improved operation under FAS II, for which a
Credit in the amount of SDR 24.9 million was approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in mid-2000.
Taking these facts into account, as well as the enormous difficulties faced by Angola during project
implementation, the achievements by the FAS were substantive, and project objectives were substantially
achieved. Therefore, the project outcome is rated satisfactory on these criteria.
Sector Policies
Absence of clear social sector policies and lack of resources for social sector activities in the government
budget created a vacuum in which FAS had to operate. Although not intended to substitute for the
government agencies, FAS played a more significant role than had been anticipated at appraisal. In some
provinces, FAS has been the main provider of new facilities, becoming an important actor in the definition
of sector policies. In some cases, this role was welcome by government agencies that found themselves
- 6 -



unable to perform better. FAS, through its Coordinating Committees, consulted with the line ministries and
local governments regarding its plans, and therefore helped shape the policy being implemented. On the
basis of this assessment, the rating for sector policies is modest.
4.2 Outputs by components.
FAS COMPONENT:
Output for the FAS component was considered satisfactory as discussed below.
Coverage, Targeting and Equity
The project's FAS component did produce and improve infrastructure in communities in an increasing
number of provinces. It started in four provinces, and eventually covered 31 out of the 70 municipalities of
nine provinces. Relevant data by province are given in Table 1 below.
Table 1 - Relevant data by Province
Population  {  Number of      Number of      Total Cost of
PROVINCE         (estimated)   Sub-Projects    Beneficiaries   Sub-Projects
['000]                        ['000]          ['000]
Cabinda              400            74             110            2,805
Kwanza Sul           1,160           67             115           2,159
Benguela            2,000           126             120           2,868
Narnibe               380           142             110           3,243
Huila               2,000            89             243           2,442
Kunene                570            48             128            1,771
Luanda              3,500            82             96            2,144
Bengo                 450            33             25             1,176
Huambo               1,000           26             68              335
TOTAL              11,460          687           1,012           18,941
The allocation of resources among provinces was not related to the size of its population, but rather to the
provincial investment needs and the capacity of the provincial FAS teams to deliver. Although, in
principle, all teams were expected to handle similar workloads and deliver approximately the same number
of sub-projects per semester, it soon became clear that there were unforeseen reasons that did not allow the
regional teams to achieve the same output. Issues related to the unwillingness of the population to
participate, the versatility of the local and regional markets, the support from local governments, the
availability of other partners, and the capacity of the teams, imposed the need to group the provinces into
three performance levels, and to allocate the resources accordingly. The provinces with the higher
performance were Benguela, Namibe, and Huila; those facing more problems were Kwanza Sul, Bengo,
and Huambo.
Neither the number of sub-projects, nor the number of beneficiaries, as they were defined and calculated,
provided a good indicator for analysis. On the one hand, for certain types of sub-projects, a large
percentage - if not the whole - of the municipal population was considered as a beneficiary. On the other
hand, there might be double counting, since many municipalities benefited from more than one sub-project.
Lack of data on impact make inter-province comparisons unreliable.
- 7 -



The project design did not provide for a sophisticated targeting mechanism: the lack of reliable data
regarding the characteristics and location of the poor voids any effort aimed at an effective targeting
system. The overwhelming poverty situation in the country at appraisal made it unnecessary to adopt a
sophisticated system. Because of the nature of the project activities, the project was aimed at the poor and,
within each province, the FAS team, together with the respective Coordination Committee, used their
knowledge and experience within the region to identify those municipalities where the project should be
primarily focused. Nevertheless, because it limited its regional coverage to those provinces that were
relatively safe, the project unavoidably excluded some of the poorest and most in need of social and
economic infrastructure and services.
Although covering about half of the municipalities of the provinces where FAS was active, the project
reached only a small number of communities. As mentioned before, requirements regarding community
participation, agreements with line ministries, partnership with NGOs and churches, as well as logistical
constraints, led to the clustering of FAS' interventions in rather few communities, located close to each
other, and more easily accessible. Focusing its sub-projects on a limited number of municipalities enabled
FAS to: (i) ensure the advantages of cluster development and (ii) ease the capacity constraints on the FAS.
Although all of the selected communities are doubtless poor and very much in need of the facilities
provided, the Government and the FAS now recognize that it would be worthwhile to improve the targeting
mechanism
Finally, equity concerns have not played a major role in helping decide which projects to approve for which
communities. There were no limits on the number or type of sub-projects that a given comrnunity could
receive, creating the potential for a skewed distribution of benefits among the contemplated communities.
Because of the constraints mentioned above, FAS had to keep a balance between a true demand-driven
mechanism and top-down decision making to decide which conununities would participate and which
sub-projects could be considered. This sometimes created tension with communities and local
governments.
The SAR did not provide for detailed impact monitoring. The lack of detailed impact data (see Annex 1)
means that this report can only provide general impressions of the project's impact.
Based on this assessment, the rating for poverty reduction outcome is modest.
Effectiveness and Output by Sub-Sector
The FAS' output reflects the variety of sub-sector interventions anticipated in the SAR. Since Angola has a
serious shortage of schools, health posts, water and sanitation facilities, etc, the construction of good
quality infrastructure in itself can already be perceived as a basic contribution to the development of the
social sector. Nevertheless, compared to the total needs of the country, this contribution is small; therefore,
the rating for physical output for this component is modest.
Output by sector is summarized in Table 2 below, and includes the sub-projects completed during the pilot
phase funded under the PPF. Most of the sub-projects were for new works and relatively few for
rehabilitation, although the opposite was projected at appraisal. This strategic change was decided once it
became clear the existing old facilities were in worse shape than expected and that it was not worth
rehabilitating them. More details, in terms of sub-types of projects and province, are given in Annex 8.
- 8 -



Table 2. Project Data by Type of Activity: sub-projects, beneficiaries and costs
Sub-Projects                              Costs
SECTOR    1995 1996  1997   1998   1999   2000   Total  Beneficiaries  US$ M
Education    6   33    49     59     33     52    232      168,600     10.5
Health       3   16    16      9      9     13      66     250,400      2.6
Water        6   12    54    108     84     64    338      362,500      4.5
Supply and
Sanitation
Productive   1    9     9     11      3      5      38      54,900      0.8
Economic          1     3             2      3      9      165,700      0.2
IGA         =    =                    4     10      14       9,900      0.2
Total       16  71    131    187    135   147     687     1,012,100    18.9
In comparing the output by sector with the numbers projected at appraisal, the exercise is hampered by the
definition of "sub-projects" used at appraisal; e.g., the SAR calculated each individual latrine in a
community as a sub-project, instead of calculating the group of latrines in one community as one
sub-project. It also calculated schools and adjoining teacher housing as separate sub-projects, etc. During
implementation, realizing the problems that the definition was creating, it was agreed that FAS would adopt
a new, more realistic definition, grouping together the different elements of the same sub-project.
Similarly, it is impossible to compare the actual total cost of US$18.9 million for the sub-projects with the
estimated total cost of US$40.9 million, projected at appraisal. The estimated total was an ideal envelope
that was not based on real commitments on the part of any of the potential co-financiers.
It also should be noted that the management information system (MIS) was not user-friendly and able to
provide more than narrow quantitative data. It did provide good information on financial flows and inputs,
but not so on outcome and impact, and was thus not useful as a management tool.
FAS output was of generally good quality, and with a simple but efficient design. Average unit costs,
compared to the costs of other social investments funds, were reasonable, certainly taking into account the
high cost of materials (which, in turn, can be explained by the high cost of transport and limited supply in
the country). In fact, all indications are that the works assisted by the FAS were cheaper and of better
quality than those funded by other organizations.
In all sub-sectors, as presented below, actual output is lower that the one targeted at appraisal. As
explained, this is in partly the result of unrealistic financial estimates at appraisal (actual support from
other donors was significantly smaller than anticipated).
In education, the FAS completed 231 facilities (mainly schools, kindergarten, and training centers),
significantly less than the 910 schools projected at appraisal. The FAS did provide for teacher housing and
school fumiture, as well as the initial supply of teaching materials. The sub-sector activities reached
168,600 beneficiaries, compared with about 450,000 projected at appraisal.
In health, the FAS completed 66 facilities (mainly health posts), less than the 450 facilities foreseen at
appraisal. Although the FAS started with hospital-type works, it adjusted its design based on its poor
experience with major works, and later focused on "first aid"-type structures. Later, realizing that the
-9-



official health agencies could not deliver on the agreement to ensure operation of the completed facilities,
FAS stopped the construction of health facilities of any type. For the facilities completed, FAS did provide
furniture and the initial supply of medicines. The works provided services for 250,400 beneficiaries, as
compared with about 350,000 foreseen at appraisal.
In water supply and sanitation, the FAS was expected to provide 200 water supply sub-projects and 120
latrines, reaching about 50,000 beneficiaries for water and a further 50,000 for latrines. In this sub-sector,
the FAS produced more than had been anticipated, addressing the needs of 362,500 beneficiaries.
In other infrastructure, the appraisal foresaw 114 agriculture sub-projects, 114 other infrastructure
sub-projects, 91 preschools and elderly day care centers, and 253 "other" sub-projects, providing for the
needs of about 300,000 beneficiaries. In comparison, the FAS produced only 47 productive and economic
infrastructure sub-projects, reaching 220,600 beneficiaries.
The experiment with IGA-related sub-projects did not go beyond the pilot phase, and was halted before
project completion. This outcome had been anticipated by the Bank team in charge of project supervision.
Following the advice of specialists who had joined the missions, the Bank strongly suggested an altemative
model for supporting IGA: through village banks. This model was not accepted by the FAS, which had a
different conception and wanted to go through with the experiment of small grants. By mid-1998, as a
result of these discussions, it was decided that FAS would proceed with their model on a pilot basis,
supporting about 30 sub-projects, costing up to US$500,000, with an evaluation along the way. The effort
was evaluated twice by independent consultants, who raised a number of concerns, as documented in the
appraisal document for FAS II. The FAS team and the Bank decided to discontinue the activities in view
of the many issues involved, including sustainability problems, the complexity of the activities, the high
cost per beneficiary, and the lack of specialized FAS staff to deal with this. At the time this activity was
discontinued, US$247,000 had been disbursed for 14 sub-projects and 9,900 beneficiaries. Out of the 14
sub-projects, 11 are still functioning and a few have, in fact, fully paid back.
Community Strengthening and Social Capital
Although more could have been done, the project did contribute to community strengthening, and to the
enhancement of social capital. In the beginning, the FAS team felt responsible to do it all themselves,
increasing the workload and the operational costs for the teams. As time went by, the teams started to
count on the assistance of other partners at the local level, notably NGOs, churches, and other
community-based organizations. Meanwhile, FAS introduced a very innovative approach through the
Network of the FAS Friends (Rede de Amigos do FAS), identifying and training in the communities key
people willing to play a significant role in mobilizing all segments of the population, and in assisting with
the tasks of facilitating the dialogue. A total of 153 "Amigos" were mobilized during project
implementation, of whom half continue to perform and are ready to play a more enhanced role under FAS
II. To disseminate information on FAS activities and help communications within the Friends Network, 24
short films were prepared to be shown on the TV every two weeks.
On a less successful attempt, the FAS required communities to establish committees to select and manage
sub-projects, as well as to provide for sub-project operation and maintenance. However, these activities did
not achieve their full potential. Community committees never took over the actual contracting of smaller
works, as projected at appraisal. This was hampered by their lack of legal status, as well as the initial
absence of commercial banks in many of the provinces. Equally important was that the FAS' experience
with community-executed works was not satisfactory; the FAS found that, after private contractors became
more experienced, they could do a much better and cheaper job than when the FAS provided the
communities with the materials and had them construct the works. Finally, and very important, the project
- 10-



did not provide adequate community training at the earliest possible stage in all phases of the sub-project
cycle. As a result, the communities did not take over operation and maintenance of completed facilities
where this was not provided by the central or local governments, or by other agencies.
The communities did contribute to funding their sub-projects through the provision of labor, materials, and
sometimes land. The contribution was supposed to be 20 percent of the sub-project cost, but this was rarely
achieved. Over the implementation period, the average community contribution amounted to 9 percent,
mostly in labor, which is already impressive, given the level of poverty of the beneficiaries.
Decentralization
The FAS' project cycle was efficient. Most of the work was delegated to the nine provincial offices, which
handled sub-project promotion, identification, appraisal and approval, contracting, and supervision. In
addition, the provincial offices were staffed to deal with the accounts and the information system. Larger
contracts (over US$ 20,000 and quickly increased to over US$ 70,000) had to be endorsed by the central
office in Luanda, which counted on a small team to handle the project's overall financial and operational
management, project monitoring and training, as well as internal auditing.
Decentralizing operations, as well as decision-making, was an appropriate solution for the problems caused
by the lack of adequate transportation and communication between different provinces in Angola. It
responded well to the fact that, due to the war, there were different poles of attraction for different regions
in the country, with Zaire being the reference for the northern provinces and Namibia for those in the
South. Given the highly centralized government decision-making system that prevailed in the country, the
accomplishments of the decentralized social fund are a real success.
However, decentralization imposed a high toll on the operating costs because of the need to recruit a
complete team in each province. In addition, in view of the impossibility of crossing the country safely by
any other means of transportation besides airplanes, it increased the costs associated with supervision,
monitoring, training, and exchange of experience. Decentralization also contributed to problems with
timely monitoring, particularly in relation to procurement and financial management. This was worsened by
the lack of a user-friendly MIS, as explained above.
Project Cycle and Costs
Administration costs (see Table 3 and Annex 9) as a percentage of sub-project investments were 29 percent
and, compared to other social funds in both Africa and Latin America, quite high. But this was probably
unavoidable due to the need to establish nine, fully staffed and equipped independent field offices in an
expensive work environment. The percentage was also very much affected by the slow-down in FAS
investments following the Bank's decision to freeze new activities, explained elsewhere in this report. In
addition, contrary to most other social investment funds, the FAS charges the cost of sub-project design
and initial implementation monitoring to administration, instead of including them in the sub-project cost.
(The 29 percent should also be adjusted for investments over the past year under the FAS II project). On
the other hand, it does not include the cost of depreciation of US$ 2.4 million for offices, goods, vehicles,
and equipment.
Contracting was mostly through the three quotation system (see Annex 2), which allowed for easier
processing, but costly if private contractors start to exploit the system and collude; to avoid this, the FAS is
considering more packaging and thus allowing for more NCB.
- 11 -



The project cycle can be time consuming. FAS data by province varied considerably, but showed various
examples of extraordinary long lapses between stages of the cycle, which will require FAS' management
attention.
Summary
To summarize, FAS reached a number of poor communities, mobilized support and responded to the needs
of those communities, produced infrastructure of good quality at low cost, was able to adjust the original
strategy to adapt to changing conditions, developed social capital, and became a pioneer in terms of a
successful decentralized agency. Therefore, the output for the FAS component should be considered
satisfactory.
THE POVERTY MONITORING COMPONENT
Output for the Poverty Monitoring component was also considered satisfactory.
The Poverty Monitoring component provided for various poverty and social sector-related studies and
training. By mid-2001, the GMCVP had conducted a number of studies and surveys and produced 19
publications (see Annex 10). The most recent of the surveys, the Household Budget Survey, has finished
data collection and is being analyzed with foreign technical assistance. It is recognized that this component
did provide relevant information, but it could have been more useful to the overall objectives of the project
if it had also focused on providing the FAS with relevant poverty data related to its investment program.
The Poverty Monitoring component also covered a limited nunber of provinces in its studies, but in the
absence of any other data, the results were welcomed by government officials and donor representatives.
Like in the case of FAS, the administration of this component turned out to be costly: US$0.8 mnillion to
produce US$2.1 mnillion in surveys and studies (excluding US$ 135,000 for goods and equipments).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
As mentioned in the SAR, because of the demand-driven nature of the FAS activities, it was difficult to do
an ex-ante economic rate of return calculation of the FAS program. In addition, because of the poor
database in the country, as well as the poor capacity of the line agencies, this study did not pursue a
comparison of the FAS and line agency costs. However, as mentioned above, all the indications are that the
FAS worked better and cheaper than other government and even NGO agencies. The quality of its works
seems good, but the cost of administration is high.
Sub-projects are evaluated by FAS' provincial offices, using the Operational Manual criteria, as well as a
shared unit cost data system and sub-project design standards agreed with the responsible line agencies.
The process of technical and financial evaluation is simple, and the economic evaluation is solely a
calculation of the least-cost solution; this seems justified because of the nature of the sub-projects so far.
Environmental evaluation was not considered at appraisal, and a first checklist of environmental evaluation
criteria was only introduced in 1999.
Evaluation is helped by the unit cost data system, which was established in each of the provincial offices,
and is updated regularly by the evaluation staff. Because of the unique nature of each of the provincial
markets, it is difficult to propose a more efficient and less subjective system.
- 12 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the project's impact on institutional development was considered modest
FAS COMPONENT
The project did have a positive institutional impact on government agencies, communities, NGOs, and
private contractors. At the central level, government agencies did get access to new poverty data, helping
them with their social policy and operational decisions. The main sector agencies also benefited from
getting exposed to the norms, procedures, and methodologies of the FAS. Furthermore, FAS created a
central coordination committee, with the participation of representatives from the related line ministries. In
addition, the FAS itself established a reputation as a credible and effective provider of infrastructure to the
poorest communities, became successful in mobilizing donor and community resources, and turned into a
dynamic organization able to adapt to changing circumstances. At the provincial level, the governments'
association with the provincial offices of the FAS, including through their participation in the provincial
coordinating committees, contributed substantially to their experience with community-selected and
managed projects. The communities themselves learned much, both from explicit technical assistance and
from "learning by doing". An increasing number of NGOs were involved in the project, both as community
representatives and as providers of technical assistance. Private sector civil works contractors and
materials suppliers benefited substantially from their exposure to the strict design and costing rules and
regulations applied by the FAS, as well as from on-time payments; this did contribute to a rapid increase in
contractor availability and competition, suggesting a modest private sector development rating.
Nevertheless, it is felt that the institutional development impact did not reach its potential: representatives
on the central and provincial coordination committees did not have the incentives to devote the necessary
time and effort to enable the committees to operate more effectively, while communities did not receive
enough capacity building from the start of the project to enable them to take over more sub-project
processing responsibilities.
POVERTY MONITORING COMPONENT
This could have been more useful if additional attention had been paid at project conception to the
administrative arrangements. Similar components in other countries have sometimes been channeled
through the social funds, which did manage the administration and contracting of consultancies, including
of staff of the statistical office as needed. In the case of the component managed by the GMCVP,
management upheaval in 1999 and resentment of the GMCVP staff salaries did prevent close cooperation
within the INE structure, and resulted in GMCVP being dissolved upon project completion.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The project was substantially affected by the lack of security in the country: it prevented the project from
covering 14 provinces, as originally foreseen, and resulted in much higher costs. In addition, the Bank
froze all new lending during a long period, and the uncertainty regarding a follow-up project had a major
impact on FAS' volume of operations and administrative cost/investment ratio. Another important factor
was the decision of some of the co-financiers not to pledge the amounts that had been targeted at appraisal,
because of donor's dissatisfaction with the war. The project was also affected by the poor banking system
and by the weaknesses of the markets for goods, materials and services at the provincial level. Equally
- 13-



relevant was the limited capacity of the civil society to provide assistance and collaboration. The last
important factor (which some believe is within government control) is inflation, which was extremely high
during project implementation, increasing the unit costs of construction and altering significantly what the
project could accomplish with the available funds.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The FAS component benefited from the total autonomy that the Government granted to the project
throughout its implementation, and from the strong leadership that was chosen to be in charge of the effort:
these were important factors to protect FAS from political manipulation. The FAS was also affected by
the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of other central government agencies. Better support from the sector
ministries could have helped the FAS with the design of its technical criteria and the provision of staff and
materials ensuring the operation and maintenance of completed facilities. The agencies were represented on
the FAS' coordination committees at provincial levels, but were not able to provide the follow-up support
agreed and expected at the start of the project. The failure in providing this support is the reason why
government's performance during implementation was considered poor. On the other hand, being able to
work independently of other agencies gave the FAS the possibility of moving fast in its decision-making
process. Line ministries, nevertheless, complained that FAS agreed with comrnunities and other agencies
about the construction of facilities without properly informing the ministries about the inclusion of these
new facilities in their operational plans.
The Poverty Monitoring component was affected by the Government's slow action regarding the new
Statutes of INE, thus holding up the start of this component.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A very positive factor was the good system and criteria for the selection of the managers and staff working
in the FAS offices. There seems to be excellent teamwork within and among offices, staff turnover has
been relatively low, they adhere to rules and procedures, and are proud of the results they are producing.
They also showed a good ability to work with the project coordinating committees at both the central and
provincial levels.
The FAS should have paid earlier and more attention to a number of constraints already mentioned in this
report, particularly on community training in sub-project preparation, contracting, and operation and
maintenance, to ensure better sub-project sustainability. The same applies to the need to have been more
realistic regarding the proposed IGA sub-projects, including the hiring of specialized staff. During the
initial discussions on IGA, the FAS leadership did not believe that different, specialized skills were required
to cope with these sub-projects.
The Poverty Monitoring component, managed by the GMCVP, could have benefited from more active
promotion of its research outcome at senior government levels. Even more important would have been an
effort to ensure close cooperation and better communication within the INE organization (as well as with
the Bank), possibly avoiding the major change in management affecting implementation in 1999. Equally
important would have been close collaboration between the GMCVP and the FAS, to try to provide the
FAS with a social sector and poverty-targeting framework for its investments.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at the equivalent of US$ 51.9 million. As detailed
in the table below, the project used US$ 32.4 million, including US$ 29.4 million for the FAS component
- 14 -



and US$ 3.0 million for the Poverty Monitoring component. The average FAS sub-project cost amounted
to US$ 27,600, which, as mentioned before, reflects the modest design and increasingly effective
competition process. Using the SAR definition for sub-projects, the average cost amounted to only US$
7,800, which compares to US$ 18,000 estimated at appraisal. Among the reasons why the actual average
is so much lower than what was projected at appraisal is the fact that there were relatively more and
cheaper water supply and sanitation sub-projects (average cost US$ 13,350) and fewer relatively more
expensive education (US$ 45,500) and health (US$ 39,400) sub-projects.
As set out in Table 3 below (see also Annex 2), the Government provided the equivalent of US$2.4 mnillion,
the beneficiary communities US$1.8 million, IDA US$22.2 million, and the other donors ( the Netherlands,
Norway, Sweden, Italy) US$6.1 million. Of the IDA allocation estimated at US$24 million at appraisal,
about US$1.8 million was lost because of US$/SDR exchange rate changes. The contribution from other
donors amounted to only one-third of what had been targeted at appraisal, a major factor in the FAS' lower
than expected level of investments.
Table 3. Costs and Financing (US$ million)
Activity          Cost      Financed   Financed    Financed by  Financed by
by IDA      by GOA     Benef        Donors
FAS:                                              _  _ _  _ _
Sub-Projects        18.9       11.3        0.4          1.8          5.4
Consultancies        2.6        1.9        0.6                       0.1
Operation            7.9       6.2         1.4                       0.3
Sub-Total           29.4       19.4        2.4          1.8          5.8
Pov.Mon.:
Surveys/Studies      2.1       1.8                                   0.3 d)
Operation b)         0.9        0.9
Sub-Total            3.0       2.7                                   0.3
Total               32.4      22.1         2.4          1.8          6.1
Notes:
a) FAS' operation costs of US$7.9 million include US$5.5 million for recurrent costs and US$2.4 million for FAS' offices,
goods, vehicles and equipment.
b) The Poverty Monitoring component's operation costs of US$0.9 million include US$0.8 million for recurrent costs and
US$0.1 million for goods and equipment. It also should be noted that the data received from the INE showed total costs of
US$3.2 million, instead of the US$3.0 million calculated in this report.
c) Norway, the Netherlands, Sweden, and Italy.
d) UNICEF, UNDP, and SIDA.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The FAS, as an agency, can be considered sustainable because of: (i) the Govermnent's commitment to the
continued operation of the social fund as the country's only effective program improving the welfare of the
poor communities and (ii) the continued interest on the part of various donors to use the FAS as their
channel to reach the poor. In addition, a few oil companies have recently shown interest in channeling some
development funding through the FAS.
- 15 -



The sub-projects also should be considered sustainable, because they were selected by the communities,
who were committed to make them work. Those communities did establish sub-project committees, which,
in more recent years, also received some training in the operation and management of completed facilities.
Of course, this represents a different problem for each sub-sector, because the responsibility for, and
complexity of operation and maintenance varies depending on the type of sub-project. Education and
health posts became the legal responsibility of the municipal governments, but those had limited resources,
and it thus should be up to the communities to ensure that the works were properly maintained and
operated. But that did require additional training and additional resources for operation. In addition, the
staffing and equipment of those completed facilities were up to the ministries, which also lacked the
resources to face the needs, thus hampering the proper provision of services. Water and latrine
sub-projects were the responsibility of the beneficiary communities or individuals, and more training is
nowadays provided to them. Operation and maintenance is easiest when the responsibility rests with an
individual. Market places were the responsibility of municipal governments. Since their beneficiaries were
willing to continue to pay to use them, their operation and maintenance has been most assured.
To some extent, sustainability was a concern and an issue addressed by the FAS teams during project
implementation. First of all, the FAS teams learned from experience that when NGOs and CBOs were
involved in the activities, services were more effective and sustainability was more likely. Most provincial
teams therefore enhanced their collaboration with local NGOs. In addition, realizing that the Ministry of
Health was unable to deliver the resources required for the operation of the health posts being built, the
FAS decided to stop building health facilities, and to concentrate on other sub-sectors where services were
more likely to be sustainable. In part, that explains why latrines compose such a large part of the
sub-projects financed by FAS. Finally, a similar concem was behind the decision to halt IGA pilot
sub-projects: to enhance their sustainability, they would have required substantial and specialized support
to FAS, and from FAS to beneficiaries, which was not possible at the time.
The Poverty Monitoring component did contribute to some capacity building within INE and consulting
frms. However, with project completion, INE's implementing GMCVP unit is being disbanded. This
component proved, therefore, not to be sustainable.
Overall, with the much larger scope of the sustainable FAS component outweighing the unsustainable
Poverty Monitoring component, the project is likely to be sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
For the time being, FAS will continue to operate on the same basis as before: it is now being supported by
a variety of other sources of funding, including the private sector, and counts on resources from the Bank's
follow-up project.
Regarding the second component, the poverty monitoring tasks for which the GMCVP was responsible will
now be transferred back to INE.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in designing the project is rated as unsatisfactory: the positive accomplishments did not
offset some of the problems faced during the preparation of the project.
- 16 -



Project preparation did suffer from frequent staff turnover, including the appointment of an inexperienced
staff member as task manager right in the middle of appraisal. In hindsight, preparation should also have
nrovided for intensive community training from the start, as well as a useful and user-friendly monitoring
and evaluation system, including realistic and measurable key performance indicators.
The Poverty Monitoring component was introduced at a late stage of project preparation, and faced many
problems along the way.
7.2 Supervision:
Keeping in mind the country's generally poor security situation, the Bank did a satisfactory job in
supervising project implementation, including a substantial number of visits by evaluation specialists for
the Poverty Monitoring component. Yet, to ensure proper quality of the project activities in all provinces,
the Bank could have sent financial management, procurement, and MIS specialists to work with the
provincial teams; the Bank also could have ensured that those specialists had a working knowledge of the
local language (according to the FAS, this was a major issue). Supervision did benefit greatly from staff
continuity and from an experienced and understanding task team leader.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
In view of the above, and also keeping in mind the country situation and the fact that there was substantial
staff continuity on the Bank side following appraisal, the overall performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrow,er
7.4 Preparation:
The Government in general, and FAS in particular, were quite involved in project preparation. The
PPF-funded activities, as well as the technical assistance funded by the Japanese PHRD grant, played a
quite positive role in this, and the Borrower' role should be rated satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance.
The Government's implementation perforinance should be rated unsatisfactory, although it is recognized
that there were some positive actions. The Government did give the FAS a substantial degree of autonomy,
and provided counterpart funding on a regular basis. However, more important, it should have done more
to ensure that the relevant central and provincial government sector agencies provided the required staffing
and equipment for the infrastructure completed under the project. In addition, as far as the Poverty
Monitoring component is concerned, it could and should have received more high-level govermnent
attention.
7 6 Implementing Agency:
The FAS, following its successful start in 1994, did a satisfactory job in expanding its operations and
improving its quality. It established itself as an accountable, credible, and efficient investment mechanism,
and has been able to enhance public confidence by producing visible outputs relatively quickly. This was
even more remarkable because of the country's dismal work environment. In particular, noteworthy was
the effort aimed at establishing useful community relationships, including through the net working system
of the "Rede de Amigos" and the publication of a FAS periodical, "O Amigo", which has been printed 6
times a year since October 1995, with 7,500 copies that are widely distributed.
- 17-



The INE's GMCVP could have benefited from a more systematic effort to disseminate research results to
various audiences. But, despite a major change in its management, it did eventually provide reasonably
useful outputs. This might have been better if there had been no major management problem in 1999.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the Borrower's performance is rated satisfactory: the poor performance of the line ministries was
more than compensated by the good performance of the implementation agency and by the support
provided to FAS.
8. Lessons Learned
There are many lessons that can be learned from the implementation, as listed below. Most have already
been taken into account in the design of FAS II.
(a) Lessons learned during project preparation help design a successful project: the experiments
supported by the PPF helped shape many strategic choices for FAS; by the same token,
components which are not properly prepared should be avoided, in this case in the complex field of
micro-credit;
(b) Social funds with clear and transparent policies and methodologies can work well even in a
difficult environment such as Angola: the confidence that FAS inspires on everyone comes in part
from the open and neutral way in which it operates;
(c) It is important to ensure the early establishment of a comprehensive program of community
training in the full cycle of sub-project identification, preparation, contracting, operation, and
maintenance, in order to improve sustainability: this can help make sub-projects more sustainable;
(d) Organizational arrangements that cause friction and resentment should be avoided, since they hann
the delivery of the project: too much autonomy and too high salaries for GMCVP were in part the
reason why the project component could not relate and integrate well with INE;
(e) Decentralization might be expensive, but sometimes is unavoidable and justifiable: the project
would not have been successfully implemented if the operation was not decentralized;
(f) Social funds should pay adequate attention to monitoring and evaluation, including the
establishment and ongoing adjustment of a user-friendly MIS, to provide a regular management
tool, as well as an impact assessment tool. The sustainability issue cannot be really addressed
without empirical evidence regarding problem sub-projects and without discussing relevant
follow-up. These systems would also enhance the dialogue with the central and local authorities,
and could provide useful infornation on the differences between the provinces in terms of delivery
capacity, efficiency, and costs;
(g) The lack of partners earlier on can prevent a social fund from enhancing the sustainability of its
sub-projects, particularly when communities are not ready to take over;
(h) The Bank should provide for regular visits by specialists in fiduciary matters; an effort should be
made to provide on-going training to the staff in the implementing agency, including in
procurement, financial management by and MIS; and the Bank should try to staff missions with



specialists who have a working knowledge of the local language; some of the problems faced by
the project could have been avoided if more attention had been given to those concerns;
(i) The role of the FAS coordinating committees should be strengthened to i) provide stronger
operational links with the line agencies and ii) to strengthen the consultation process regarding the
FAS work program and budget overview;
(j) During project implementation, some attention should be devoted to how targeting can be
improved, even in an environment where almost all communities are poor; and
(k) Strong leadership in the social fund agency as well as strong Bank task managers can be a critical
factor in the success of a project.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Final Report on Proiect Implementation - Social Action Proiect
(see annex 13 for the Portuguese translation, together with the three original attachments)
I - Introduction
The Social Action Project's objective in 1995 was to assist the country in the transition from war to peace,
targeting in particular the population most affected by the economic and military crises.
Negotiated and approved in the end of 1995, the credit 2802-ANG, in the amount of US$ 24 million,
became effective on March 21, 1996, and from 1996 to 2000 financed operational costs, infrastructure
rehabilitation and construction, equipment, vehicles, consulting, training activities, surveys and studies
for two components:
*  A Social Action Fund, managed by the Fundo de Apoio Social - FAS, with an initial budget of
US$ 17.4 million (which included US$ 1.6 million from the PPF, approved in 1994), had as its
main objective the financing of sub-projects identified and implemented by local communities.
*  A Poverty Monitoring component, managed by the Gabinete de Monitorizacao das Condicoes de
Vida da Populacao (GMCVP, Office for the Monitoring of Living Conditions of the Population),
with an initial budget of US$ 4.6 million, had as its main objective the financing of policy-relevant
research on poverty and social issues and the systematic monitoring of poverty through household
surveys.
The specific objectives of the project were:
a) to improve access to basic services through the provision or rehabilitation of community
infrastructure;
b) to improve the capacity of communities and NGOs to plan, appraise, manage and maintain
investment activities, through the experience gained in the project;
c) to generate additional income and employment in rural and urban areas through revenue-generating
sub-projects;
d) to enhance the capacity of Angolan institutions to collect and analyze poverty-related data; and
e) to provide a better understanding of the main causes of poverty in order to help formulate effective
poverty alleviation strategies and generate adequate policies for socioeconomic development.
- 19-



COMPONENT A - FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL - FAS
1) General Context
The Government's 1994 Economic and Social Program (PES/94), in the section "Other Global Policies",
focused particularly on poverty alleviation policies. These policies aimed at tackling poverty alleviation not
only in its immediate perspective but also under a longer-term perspective of structural eradication of
poverty.
This component of the PES Program was the Government's answer to the serious social problems facing
the country at the time, namely the progressive impoverishment of larger parts of the population as a
consequence not only of the rekindling of the war following the September 1992 elections but also due to
the lack of measures to correct the socioeconomic distortions coming from colonial times and aggravated
by the economic model adopted after the independence.
The Government of Angola, like other countries' in Latin America and Africa, created the FAS, aiming to:
-  increase and improve access to basic social services, through the rehabilitation and/or construction
of infrastructure;
- increase local capacity for identification, implementation and maintenance of financed projects;
-  generate additional income and employment, especially in the rural sector, through the
implementation of income-generating projects;
-  provide a better understanding of the causes of poverty in Angola in order to help to formulate
poverty alleviation policies and to generate adequate policies for socioeconomic development,
enhancing the capacity of Angolan institutions to collect and analyze poverty-related data.
This fund was created not as a mechanism to substitute for the State's central and local administrative
channels, but to complement their action (close to the population) in areas not encompassed by the action of
the State at the time.
2) FAS as a tool for Poverty alleviation
FAS was created on October 28, 1994 under the Council of Ministers' Decree 44/94 as an autonomous
governmental agency, with its own juridical identity and financial and administrative autonomy, with its
own resources and regulations, allowing it to act quickly, efficiently and effectively, having simple and
clear control procedures for the use of the resources under its management, in order to promote social well
being and poverty alleviation, enhancing the participation of the population in the country's process of
reconstruction and social and economic development through the financing of small projects.
FAS was created with a national mandate, meaning that its action may be extended to all areas that require
assistance and to the socioeconomic sectors that contribute to the improvement of living conditions of the
population, where feasible. To ensure the attainment of such an objective, a simple organizational
structure was conceived, relatively independent of traditional structures of the public sector. The structure
encompassed:
-  Administrative and financial autonomy and political support.
-  Hiring of qualified manpower without restrictions associated to public sector working regulations.
-  More simplicity and agility for the execution of projects.
- 20 -



-  Adoption of modem management concepts, with focus, sustainability, and social participation.
-  Decentralized management, with two decision-making levels, national and provincial, with clear
distinction of functions between the National Coordinating Unit (conceptualization and creation of
conditions adequate to the implementation, such as the mobilization of national and international
partners, promotion, information, and image of the Fund, as well as representation of FAS) and the
Provincial offices (local financing agencies for community projects).
3) Characteristics of FAS
Created in the beginning one of the transition periods from war to peace and set within the framework of
the preparation and implementation of an economic stabilization program, FAS had clearly defined its area
of action and the necessity to establish complements and synergies with other governmental initiatives, such
as the Round Table (Brussels), Microprojects (EU) and Community Development (PRC).
FAS' mechanisms and procedures clearly defined the role and participation of the different social players,
the adoption of methods of participation in decision-making, the mechanisms of co-responsibility in the
implementation of actions, the subcontracting of specialized services, and internal and external auditing.
To ensure the attainment of the objectives for which it was created, FAS adopted the following principles:
-  Decentralization in the decision-making process due to the necessity of adapting the national
context to the local socioeconomic and cultural reality. The decentralized and flexible management
structure allows for incorporation of local elements in the formulation of programs and project
execution, including their managerial and functional systems.
-  Managerial efficiency and effectiveness through the creation of simple and clear management
procedures and mechanisms, based on responsibility, solidarity and participation, in order to allow
for an adequate and quick response to the request of the communities, a prompt and conforming
accounting system, the best allocation of available resources, and the total incorporation of the
beneficiary population into the development process.
- Adoption of consultation mechanisms and creation of partnerships as platforms for dialogue and
cooperation among all development partners - government and the non-government agencies -
aiming at enhancing the formulation of adequate strategies for a transparent and effective
management of resources.
4) Results (Droiects and disbursements))
Since its inception, FAS financed the construction and rehabilitation of 687 social infrastructures, 33.8%
for the educational sector, 47.8% for water and sanitation, 9.6% in health, and 8.8% for infrastructures for
support of production (markets, small bridges, etc) and income-generating activities.
These activities were developed in nine provinces of the country, namely Cabinda, Narnibe, Benguela,
Luanda, Bengo, Kwanza Sul, Huila, Kunene and Huambo, and had the financial support of the World
Bank, through credit no. 2802 in the amount of US$19,357,582.31, of the Government of Angola, with the
amount of US$2,383,113.39, and donations from other countries such as:
- Netherlands - US$908,957.64
-  Norway    - US$2,76,66.42
-  Sweden    - US$1,253,829.85
-  Japan     - US$674,000.00
- 21 -



-  Italy     - US$52,065.31
- Other (NGOs, UNICEF, churches) - US$1,028,355.79
- Communities- US$1,779,389.98
The contribution of the communities towards the costs of the infrastructures built or renovated (covering
mostly labor and some materials), which had been originally estimated at 20% of the cost, ended up being
9.3%.
5) Constraints
During its implementation the project met some difficulties that influenced the attainment of its objectives,
especially:
-  The weakness and lack of organization of the civil society (NGOs, Associations, Churches, etc),
that hampered the creation of partnerships to strengthen the human and social capital of the
communities, and forced FAS, which had been created to be a financing agency, to become also an
implementing agency.
-  The absence of the commercial banking network in most provinces where FAS was working (only
4 out of 9 provinces had a commercial bank), making it very difficult for the disbursement system
to work.
-  The difficulties to implement, rigorously and swiftly, the regulations and procedures for the
procurement of goods and works, due to the unwillingness of the private sector to participate. It
should also be noted that the local markets goods and services were severely limited in most
provinces.
-  The high poverty level of the beneficiary communities, preventing more participation in
infrastructure costs.
-  The irregular disbursements of funds from the State's General Budget, which caused the untimely
payment of amounts due to suppliers, as well as the use of IDA funds for payment of operating
costs.
-  The low levels of the Special Account (US$750,000.00 in 1996-1998 and US$1,500,000.00 in
1998-2000) to meet the commitments, especially sub-project financing; also problematic was the
long time (averaging 25 days) for replenishment of the account by the World Bank.
-  The frequent changes, at the World Bank, of the project's Task Manager (PPF- Amolo Ngweno,
1995-97 Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo, and 1997-2000 Laura Frigenti).
-  The weakness of Angola's macroeconomic context, including inflation, which had negative effects
on the project's operation, especially on the cost of goods and services acquired and on unforeseen
expenses.
-  The initial misunderstanding by local government officials of role of FAS as an autonomous fund,
delaying the expected good relationship.
-  The continuity of the war in the country that prevented the expansion of FAS from 9 to the 14
projected provinces, as well as to other municipalities within the provinces where it was acting, in
order to finance more sub-projects and therefore encompass a larger quantity of beneficiaries.
6) Lessons learned
Although more could have been done, the project performance can be considered satisfactory in view of the
original objectives and given the real situation met in its development. The lessons learned during the
project's implementation might improve the performance in the second phase of this project and assist other
similar programs.
- 22 -



The following lessons are particularly worth mentioning:
a) Decentralization benefits - given the country's size and cultural diversity on one hand, and the
specificity of the solution of problems, unique to each province, on the other, the adoption of the
model of decentralized management was more appropriate.
b) Reinforcement of Human Capital - great attention was given to the physical capital
(infrastructure), while not enough attention was given to the reinforcement of the human capital,
both at the level of the communities and of the development partners (NGOs, Associations,
Churches, etc) which in turn hindered their engagement and participation in the project's cycle and
especially in the sustainability of the infrastructure.
c) Redefinition of the Intervention Strategy - given: (i) the security problems, (ii) the follow-up of
activities, (iii) the multiplier effect of actions, and (iv) the use of the communities' potential, the
option to concentrate the actions along tracks in each province (rather than scattering all over the
province) brought positive results.
d) Weak utilization of the Coordination Committees' capacity - the role of the coordination
committees could have been more active and participant if incentive systems (other than material or
financial) were introduced in order to engage initially their members and subsequently the
institutions they represent.
e) Procurement/Financial System - the strict observation of the procurement and financial regulations
and procedures enhances a better planning of activities, and may have an educational role for the
national entrepreneurship.
f) Inexistence of an appropriated monitoring and evaluation system - although the MIS system for
FAS provided enough information on the implementation of the infrastructures, that information
was usually not taken into account in the decision-making process. The system did not encompass
the collection of qualitative data, which are also very important for an impact evaluation of the
activities.
7) Factors that contributed to the Project's success
The objective of this document is to report on the activities undertaken and to serve as an instrument for
thought. With this in mind we take the opportunity to highlight the following aspects:
a) FAS was well accepted by the communities and local governments, and in most cases became the
most important partner for the solution of certain problems.
b) The rigor imposed on the work of the teams enabled each team member to develop a different set of
skills, especially on management and administration.
c) The experience obtained in the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure associated with the
performance of the teams, particularly in terms of procurement, contributed very much for the
quality of the infrastructures.
d) The successful utilization of procedures within FAS became a model for other local and
international organizations in their work with the communities.
- 23 -



COMPONENT B - OFFICE FOR THE MONITORING OF LIVING CONDITIONS OF THE
POPULATION - GMCVP
Introduction
GMCVP's precursor was the Unidade de Pobreza (Poverty Monitoring Unit) that was created in 1993 by
the Government of Angola, by ministerial decree 01 7/DRHI/93, as an independent unit within the Statistics
National Institute - INE (cf. The World Bank Document, Report N 14822-ANG, November 28, 1995,
Human Resources Operations Division, Southern Africa Departrnent, Africa Region, pages 17, 18).
Unfortunately, the funds allocated at the time did not allow the functioning of the new unit and of INE
towards the stated objectives. Therefore, as part of a restructuring of INE, approved by the Council of
Ministers, that unit was transformed into the GMCVPA (as per complete final report).
GMCVP was then created through executive decree 9/97 of February 28, 1997, with the following
responsibilities:
to cooperate with the departments of the National Institute of Statistics (INE) towards the
definition of the main indices relating to the living conditions of the population;
-  to carry out analyses and studies towards the definition of a policy to combat the poverty and to
improve the living conditions of the population;
-  to promote surveys and analyses and studies on the more vulnerable groups of the population; and
-  to organize and keep up to date a database on poverty in Angola.
Staff and Administration
GMCVPA's staff evolved over time. In the beginning, in 1997, it counted with 3 individuals only, namely
the Head of the Office, the Studies Coordinator, and the Informatics Officer. The Head of the Office and
the Studies Coordinator together with the Director of INE developed the basic documents for the Office,
namely the Procedures Manual and the Office's organization chart. A Committee for Information on the
Living Conditions of the Population and a Technical Committee for the Selection and Evaluation of Study
Proposals were created between 1997 and 1998. They were both under the responsibility of the Studies
Coordinator, and under the supervision of the Head of the Office and of the INE's Director. In 1998, the
staff increased to 6 persons, with the inclusion of an administrator, an accountant, and of an assistant for
accounting and financial issues.
Summary of Disbursements and Final Statement of Accounts
The IDA Credit 28020-ANG, in the amount of US$3,020,000.00, backed this component of the project.
At the same time, and due in part to the transfer of about US$500,000.00 of the initial credit from part B to
part A (the FAS), it was necessary to resort to the Swedish Trust Fund 20404-ANG, to cover the expenses
of the Office, especially in the last 6 months. The amount of the trust fund that was made available for part
B was about US$257,000.00, encompassed in 8 requests. Under IDA credit 28020-ANG there were 54
requests for replenishment of the Special Account (disbursements), in the amount of US$2,858,000.00
(including direct payments and recovery of the Special Account). These disbursements covered categories
2B (equipments), 5 (consultants), and 6B (operational costs).
- 24 -



Implementation Plan
Essentially, the implementation plan of the GMCVP aimed at: (i) creating conditions for the production of
reliable statistical information to assist in decision making, (ii) preparing studies, and (iii) creating a "task
force" to organize the tasks related to the production, analysis and dissemination of that information. To
accomplish that, it was necessary to create the material, human and financial conditions. Its main focus for
action was the organization of sample surveys, larger or smaller, and the reinforcement and capacity
building of the internal "task force", aiming to address the needs of the market and improve the level of
response of INE, in time and in space, which actually took place, particularly in the last two years.
In the organizational structure of GMCVPA, the majority of the sub-unit tasks were conducted with a
certain dose of success. The tables attached to the full report (Annex 17) show the activities developed
(surveys and studies) since 1996 by which time the structure of GMCVPA was already set and almost
functional, since it had inherited the mechanisms of the former Poverty Unit.
*      Complying with the work plan
Overall, the work plan was met and the number of tasks accomplished went beyond what had been planned.
Two planned surveys were not conducted (Priority Survey II and the Community Survey) but other
surveys, of larger scope, have been conducted instead, e.g. the Survey on the Capacity and Willingness to
Pay for Basic Social Services and the two PRIMA Surveys (related to civil servants, the Public
Administration and the citizens); these latter surveys were financed by the GOA (MAPESS), with funds
not related to the Project's.
Similarly, in the area of the studies, all the tasks were accomplished within the time framework and within
the conditions that had been created. Worth noting are: the creation of the Technical Committee for the
Selection and Evaluation of Study Proposals (composed of renowned national consultants representing
various institutions); the preparation of a brochure with information on the program of studies which was
widely disseminated to all Universities and higher education institutions; the training of individuals from
other institutions; and the organization of seminars during the Angolan Statistical Week held in 1999 and in
2000. It is also worth noting the organization of a socio-economic database and a list of studies done by
the GMCVPA, or by others but with the support of GMCVPA (in terms of statistical information and
methodology).
*      Disseminating the results
This is perhaps the area in which more activities should have been developed. This was not possible
because GMCVPA own activities took most of the time in view of the very limited staff. Nevertheless, the
creation of the GMCVPA provided a certain capacity to respond to the needs of the society in terms of
statistical informnation as well as in terms of dissemination of that same information
The participation of the staff from GMCVPA in national and international conferences (for instance the
"techno-scientific days" organized by FESA) as well as in radio and TV programs, allowed GMCVPA to
show, to some extent, how important is the use of statistics for good govemance and planning
*      Specific goals for monitoring programs
The GMCVPA's monitoring program had great impact on the capacity building of the staff in INE and of
the staff of the State institutions which requested it. This capacity building took place in the areas related
- 25 -



with survey techniques, and in overcoming the difficulties to work with statistics software and/or database
(Excel e SPSS). Equally important were the actions related to the capacity building of staff who were
connected to the GMCVPA, directly or indirectly (e.g., staff from INE working with the GMCVP).
Proiect DeveloDment
*      Studies
One of the major objectives of GMCVPA's establishment was the creation of human potential to conduct
studies. This potential was created and it utilized, as basis for the studies, the statistical information
produced internally as well as the information available outside the GMCVPA. Therefore, in the context of
the program of studies, a number of special studies were conducted, e.g.: a gender manual ("The Situation
of the Angolan Woman, Statistical Analysis on Gender"); the studies in form of reports from surveys,
namely the "Report on Multiple Indicators" and the "Study on the Capacity and Willingness to Pay for
Basic Social Services". Also worth noting is the study on "The Impact of the Radio Media in our Society"
and the Poverty Note. It is also worth highlighting the participation of GMCVPA in the availability of
statistical infornation for the UN Human Development Reports on Angola for the years of 1998 and 1999.
A total of 17 studies were conducted by GMCVPA during the 4 years and 4 months of its existence.
Results from the Monitoring System
The monitoring system showed positive results once it started using the statistical information that was
produced and analyzed by GMCVPA in order to help formulate or provide reference for policies, programs
and projects. The Poverty Profile prepared in 1996 (which was done with the involvement of the new staff
from GMCVPA) was the first test. GMCVPA staff conducted its wide dissemination and presentation in
various forums.
In 1997, a "task force" from GMCVPA participated in and coordinated the analysis of the results of the
Multiple Indicators Survey (MICS), in collaboration with the staff from INE. The report from such survey
was and still is the reference and consultation basis for the social indicators in Angola, particularly on
demographics, health and education. In spite of the fact that 1997 was the year in which the GMCVPA
was being set up, it also started to be the period in which the Office was invited for a series of activities
ranging from training to conducting surveys, beyond the tasks that the Office had in its organizational
chart.
Results of the Financial Audits
Three financial and administrative audits were conducted for the periods 1997/1998, 1999 and 2000. The
first audit covered the initial period of implementation, e.g. the years of 1997 and 1998. That auditing, as
well as the subsequent ones, included the quality control of the management of the project, through the
examination of the information contained in the disbursement plan and in the map of disbursements in US
dollars.
Summary of Technical Evaluations
From March 1997 until June 2001, 10 technical evaluations were conducted by the World Bank, more
specifically by Mr. John Y. Ngwafon (Poverty Economist, Quality and Knowledge Department (AFTQK),
Africa Region). The main objective of those evaluations was to assess in loco the development of the
planned activities and to identify existing difficulties. One of the most relevant activities for GMCVPA
- 26 -



was the Household Survey on Income and Expenses, which lasted 24 months between preparation of the
survey and the field work or collection of the data. The technical evaluation conducted particularly for that
activity was very intense and continuous since it was the first time that such an important activity was
conducted in Angola. It is worth emphasizing that the result of this evaluation was positive, and counted
with only one international consultant.
Consulting and Results
In view of its functional character GMCVPA had to work very much with consultants, both national and
international ones. This occurred particularly when surveys and some studies were being conducted.
Therefore, there was the need to hire an intemational consultant, specialized in surveys, to follow-up and
advise the staff of the Office in the preparation and implementation of the income and expenditure
household survey. Likewise, most of the people working in the field were hired as national consultants for
the various surveys conducted; without those national consultants, GMCVPA could never have carried on
this kind of activity.
In general, the consultancies requested by the GMCVPA were positive since they fully responded to the
fixed objectives and, above all, enhanced the building and consolidation of some local capacity. Regarding
the intemational consultants, individually or collectively, their terms of reference systematically required
them to work together with the staff from GMCVPA, and to help build their capacity in the areas where
there were still weaknesses.
Problems Faced and Lessons Learned
Since the beginning of its implementation, GMCVPA had to overcome a series of problems. It was
necessary to create the key documents that would govem its functions, and the material and financial
conditions to initiate the work; subsequently, it was necessary to identify the right people for the vacant
positions, who had to fulfill the requirements of the World Bank. Here it is worth mentioning the weak
support from the World Bank since the project did not receive more attention in questions related to
procurement and disbursement, which led to the return of many documents sent to the World Bank during
the first year of implementation in view of the mistakes incurred in their preparation.
Another problem was the delay in the processing of the requests for disbursement, from the time the request
was sent until the money was received in the Special Account. The time taken in this process was quite
long, creating enormous constraints in the activities, risking many times the continuation of those activities,
particularly during the last household survey on income and expenses.
It was also noticeable the lack of written documents after the technical evaluations. One would only know
if things were going right or wrong when talking with members of the evaluation team. Presently, in the
office, there is only one aide-memoire prepared when the last evaluation was conducted.
Also deserving notice is the little institutional clarification regarding the authority of the Head of GMCVPA
and of the Director of INE. This happened because the documents of the World Bank allowed total
autonomy to the Head of the Office for contracting personnel and managing the Special Account, with
ex-post reporting to the Director of INE. This understanding was contested by INE's Direction, leading to
the cancellation of the contract of the Head of GMCVP in 1999.
- 27 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
Various bilateral and international aid organizations expressed their satisfaction with FAS' operation.
NORAD funded an appraisal, conducted in July 2001, which mentioned the following:
"The objective of the appraisal has been to assess a number of questions of specific relevance for NORAD
in the process of making a decision regarding Norwegian support for a Second Social Action Fund Project -
FAS II - in Angola. The appraisal provided a qualitative assessment of the present status of FAS,
emphasizing its decentralized organizational set up and community-oriented approach, its potentials within
the framework of a more comprehensive poverty-reduction strategy, but also the challenges related to the
institutionalization of FAS and to community sub-project sustainability.
In the Angolan context, a discussion of any one specific project must, however, take account of the specific
social situation in a country that is still at war. The functioning of state institutions in the country is marked
by decades of armed conflict. The social and political crisis has deepened over the last decade, making
living conditions extremely difficult for the great majority of Angolan people. On this background, FAS
stands out as an agency that has succeeded in supporting a large number of community-based projects
since 1995, with an average of about 130 sub-projects completed per year. At the same time, FAS has
consolidated its role as a credible, accountable, and efficient state-related institution, not only from the
beneficiaries' point of view, but also in the opinion of different Governnent institutions, civil society
associations, and NGOs.
The appraisal concluded with the recommendation that Norway enter into a new agreement with the
Govemment of Angola, maintaining the present level of NORAD support in the three-years' period
2001-2003.
In order to contribute to the creation of useful mechanisms to deal with a number of specific challenges
identified during the appraisal, it was also recommended that a certain amount of the Norwegian funding be
earmarked for two specific sub-funds - or separate FAS accounts - at the central level:
1) to provide funding for capacity building in order to promote the development and more systematic
use of locally adapted technological solutions in community infrastructure projects;
2) to provide funding for sustainability emergencies, to be drawn upon in situations where unforeseen
problems occur after the fornal completion of FAS sub-projects, and thus significantly impair the
sustainable utilization of basic social services by target populations.
Finally, it was recommended that a joint donors' end-review - or final evaluation - be carried out in 2003/4.
Taking the actual situation at that time into account, the end-review should more specifically address the
question of how FAS activities, procedures, built-up capacity, and community-oriented approaches can be
used and institutionalized in a longer-term perspective."
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Various international and local NGOs expressed their satisfaction with the FAS' policies, operations, and
cooperation.
- 28 -



10. Additional Information
(a) Environment: the project was rated a "C", but this should, in hindsight, have been a "B", because of the
substantial importance of the water supply and sanitation sector in the FAS portfolio. This, in turn, would
have required more attention being paid to the environmental policy and operational aspects of the FAS
operation, particularly in the evaluation of relevant sector sub-projects, and thus in the staffing of the FAS,
both at the center and in the provinces.
(b) Gender: although the project did not make explicit provisions for the needs of women and the
measurement of the project impact on women, the FAS investments did benefit women substantially, and
the FAS did keep gender-specific data on its beneficiaries. Of the total number of beneficiaries under the
project, 284,667 were women, 209,570 were men, and 517,882 were children.
-29 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicatorlMatrix                   Projected in last PSR               Actual/atest Estimate
1. % of rehabilitated infrastructures that are  100%                      N/A
providing services and/or being used after 1
year.
2. % of community members, gender                                         N/A
desagregated, employed through FAS
financed sub-projects.
3. Number of studies (surveys) caried out  3                              5
by GMCVP.
4. GMCVP implemented studies' results and
recommendations used in policy decisions.
Output Indicators:
indlcatorlAatrix                   Projected In lost PSR                ActuallLatest Etimate
No. of Provinces covered             14                                   6
No. of sub-projects completed        2,304                                687
No. of beneficiaries                 1,152,000                            1,012,000
Avg. project cost/beneficiary        Max. US$10                            US$18.72
End of project
(*) When the 687 sub-projects are recalculated according with the original definition used in the SAR, the
total adds up to 2416
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
A. FAS
Establishment                                        1.40          2.40            171
Operation                                           3.10           5.50            177
Sub-Projects                                       40.90          18.90            46
Technical Assistance                                2.50           2.60            104
B. Poverty Monitoring
Establishment                                       0.10           0.10            100
Operation                                           0.70           0.80            114
Studies and Surveys                                 2.10           2.10            100
Total Baseline Cost                                50.80          32.40
Physical Contingencies                              1.00
Total Project Costs            51.80          32.40
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required             51.80          32.40
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category     ICB           NCB         Other"       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                                  1.00         10.60         9.10        20.70
0           (1.00)       (6.70)       (0.00)      (7.70)
2. Goods                     2.80         4.70          5.20         8.20        20.90
(2.80)       (2.20)       (3.20)        (0.00)      (8.20)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          6.10         1.00        7.10
FAS & Poverty               (0.00)        (0.00)       (5.30)       (0.00)      (5.30)
4. Inc. Recur. Costs         0.00         0.00          3.20         0.00        3.20
FAS & Poverty Mon.
(0.00)       (0.00)        (2.80)       (0.00)      (2.80)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     2.80          5.70         25.10        18.30       51.90
(2.80)       (3.20)       (18.00)      (0.00)       (24.00)
- 31 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category        ICB            NCB           Other2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00           7.40          6.30           5.40         19.10
(0.00)         (7.40)        (4.10)        (0.00)        (11.50)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.40           1.80          0.00          2.20
(0.00)         (0.30)        (1.40)        (0.00)        (1.70)
3. Services                     0.00           2.20          2.40           0.30          4.90
FAS & Poverty                  (0.00)         (0.00)         (4.10)        (0.00)        (4.10)
4. Inc. Recur. Costs            0.00           2.90          2.60           0.30          5.80
FAS & Poverty Mon.
(0.00)         (2.90)        (1.80)        (0.00)        (4.70)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00           12.90         13.10          6.00         32.00
(0.00)        (10.60)        (11.40)       (0.00)        (22.00)
Note: Both works and goods funded under sub-projects are listed under category l.a since no breakdown is available
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin b Component (in US$ million equivalent)
weantwpeof Appralu
Component               ppaaIEstimate              ActnslAtest Estimkh         -    g -
Bank      Govt.     CoF.      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
A - FAS
Establ/Operat.           3.80       1.10     0.10      6.20       1.40      0.30    163.2  127.3  300.0
Sub-Projects             15.00     7.10      18.70     11.30      2.20      5.40    75.3   31.0    28.9
Techn. Assist.           2.30                0.40       1.90      0.60      0.10    82.6           25.0
B - Pov. Mon.
Establ./Operat.          0.60      0.40      0.20      0.90                         150.0   0.0    0.0
Surveys/Stud.            2.20                           1.80                0.30    81.8
Note: Govt. = Govemment and Community Contributions
- 32 -



A^.nnex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not appplicable.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
June/July 1994              8    - Amolo Ng'weno, Task Manager     U             S
(Preparation)                    - Sara Gonzalez-Flavell, Legal
Counsel
- Gabriel Siri, Social Fund
Expert
- Paul Geli, Social Fund Expert
- Thierry Brun, Food Security
Specialist
- Ghislaine Delaine, Statistician
- Valeria Pena, Sociologist
- Girindre Beeharry, Economist
October 1994                2    - Amolo Ng'weno, Task Manager      S            S
(Pre-Appraisal                   - Gabriel Siri, Social Fund
Expert
Appraisal/Negotiation
February 1995               3    - Amolo Ng'weno, Task              S            S
Manager
- Gabriel Siri, Social Fund
Expert
- Peter Ngomba, Economist
June/August 1995            5    - Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,        S             S
(Post-Appraisal)                 Task Manager
- Rodolfo Sanjurjo, Consultant
- Gabriel Siri, Social Fund
Expert
- Ghislaine Delaine, Statistician
- Peter Ngomba, Economist
Supervision
May/June 1996                5   - Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,        S            U
Task Manager
- Jeffrey Ashe, Microfinance
Specialist
- Evangeline Javier,
Economist
- Ghislaine Delaine,
Statistician
- Lucy Keough
October/November             I   - Ghislaine Delaine, Statistician  S            U
1996
November 1996                5   - Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,        S            U
Task Manager
- 34 -



- Andrew Mack, Operations
Analyst
- Evangeline Javier, Human
Resources Economist
- Ghislaine Delaine, Statistician
- Laura Frigenti, Social Policy
Specialist
June 1997                    5    - Laura Frigenti, Task Team        HS            U
Leader
- Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,
Public Health Specialist
- Jeffrey Ashe, Micro-Finance
Specialist
- Bamberger, Beneficiary
Assessment Specialist
- John Ngwagon, Statistician
November 1997                2    - Laura Frigenti, Task Team        S             U
Leader
- Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,
Public Health Specialist
March 1998                    6   - Laura Frigenti, Task Team        S             U
Leader
- Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,
Public Health Specialist
- Agarwal, Operations Support
- Schonberger, Income
Generation Specialist
- Demare, Architect
- Gabriel Siri, Social Fund
Expert
March 1999                    1   - Laura Frigenti, Task Team         S             S
Leader
December 1999                2    - Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo,        S             S
Public Health Specialist
- Wim Alberts, Social Protection
Economist
August 2000                  3    - Wim Alberts, Social Protection   S              S
Specialist
- Magaye Gaye, Financial
Management Specialist
- Sean Bradley, Social Fund
Specialist
March 2001                    1   - Ngwafon, Economist                S             S
ICR
October 2001                 2    - Elca Rosenberg, Task
Team Leader at ICR
- 35 -



- Willem Struben,
Consultant
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                0.0                         4.2
AppraisaVNegotiation                      4.8                        32.6
Supervision                              79.9                       111.7
ICR                                      12.9                        68.9
Total                                    97.6                       217.4
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Oi Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM      * N   O NA
O Physical                              OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
O Financial                             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Institutional Development             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Social
l Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
El Gender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
L Other (Please specify)         O H   OSUOM      O N   * NA
L Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
OI Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
n Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
rn1 Supervision                                     OHS IDS      O U    O HU
El Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
Cj Preparation                                      OHS OS       O U    O HU
LII Government implementation performance           O HS O S     0  U   0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
L Overall                                           OHS OS       OU     O HU
- 38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
World Bank, "Republic of Angola, Social Action Project", Staff Appraisal Report, No. 14822-ANG,
November 28, 1995
World Bank, "Republic of Angola, Social Action Project", Project Appraisal Document, No.
204741-ANG, May 26, 2000
World Bank, "Back-to-Office Report, Mid-Term Review", March 16-28, 1998
FAS, "Manual de Procedimentos", July 1998
INE, " Welfare and Poverty in Angola", February 1999
Bamberger, Michael, "Beneficiary Assessment, a First Look at Results from Selected Communities in
Benguela and Kwanza Sul", October 1, 1998
UNDP, "Human Development Report - Angola 1999"
Kaarhus, R,, Appraisal of Fundo de Apoio Social (FASII), prepared for NORAD, September, 2001
- 39 -



Additional Annex 8. Detailed FAS Project Data
Detailed FAS Project Data in this annex:
- Types of sub-project data by provinces
- Some basic indicators ol FAS dcvelopment
- Disbursements per typc of sub-project - by province
- Beneficiaries per type of sub-project - by province
- Other relevant data in EXCEL
. Converting number of sub-projects in accordance with SAR definition
Disbursements per category per province
. Disbursements per source of financing per province
. Distribution of beneficiaries by gender and age group
Types of sub-project data by provinces
Infrastn&tuure      1ipeofProject      *        KSul Belg    a. N Cab.     JiICJLuaw       Bengo Hluini. T
School                             4 .          I-'   13!    14   28     17     4    197
Chi]d Care Center  .                                            _1                     3
Pic-Pec                       I            .                                           8
5 Roorms School   --           ___                                         I3_          1 t  _  _
Orphanage         ='                                         =-      = =               2
Edu:ation  -        Special Schools, -                                                    ____              2
-        Social Center                                          21                              5
Training Center  .                                            2     --                 8
Teacher house                                      -                                   3
School Kitchn                                           1                   -_--__--
Cementery  ._-;-_                                                       -    _  .
Health Center r  -                                      1 !                 _ _        3
:  Heahh Post        ;                 i __                6     2     1   _        2    53
,-Health_       .   Sanitation Post   -                                     1                               91 __  
Water fLbuntain                                               8    15            :    27
Fonteiiro                                       .    ,                                16
Poo Tubiilar-                                                1 . . _;  1 17           69
Cactmba MeUior-da,                                                                    25 _.  __ _  _ _   25
Wa.e. .d  ~    Furos Subterr.nios 2,                                 44 -1
.ii Warand.Sainit'aton . BalneSrio      .            _         _            ,  _          _                 21
Latrina           7'-        4      1 _         _   _   _          2   _     __.   _ 276
Lavandana           -  -                                2                 -     -     19
Rede Distnbuicio 1H20                                                                   2 L
Drenagem de .Agua s-             _                        ___A
Canal e Tanque                                          1 _     _         __.
Combinadus                                              3                 -       .   45
IIereado                      I                         1           Z      1          12
Bebedouro                                  8                      -                     8
|Producive          Manga deVadrnao                                                                   1 23
Chimpaca.                    31                                                         5
Arborizagao                  3                          3                               6
Viveiro                             2                   1      1      _____             4
Estrada                                                 1      |
- 40 -



Pasdeira .        ,                1      1                                           2
Econ om,c   M    I    tit                                                                          2      2
. :, ,. s. /'otite                         1        ,^-" - ,  1, AG  1                       1     4
Bloqueua                         ==                       =     =     =               1
Corte e Costura                   _                    1     1                        3
Income Generating   Coshtra Forma;Ao                                             1                        1
Cestana e crochet                                      1                              1
Actiines            Producao de plantas                                                                   0
Produ$o Agricola                    I     I            1                              3
Nloagem               _             I                                                 2
Padaria
Centro de S1v1s       ___            ___                                              1
Total completed                                 67   -12    142    -7                 82    33     2    687
sub-projects                                                 -                                 ; -   -
Development of FAS 1 (1994 - 2000)
1994     1995     1996     1997      1998        1999        2000
Number of teams created             1          4         8         9       10           9*            9
Number of hired staff               6         34        64        75       84          76            74
Numberofcompleted Sub-Projects                16        71       131      187         135           147
Number of beneficiaries                   79,602   100,108   329,579  237,564     108,017       157,249
* In 1999 the teams of Viana and Cacuaco joined together making FAS-Luanda
Implementation of FAS I
Employment created in the buildingarehabilitation of infrastructure
1994     1995     1996     1997     1998      1999      2000
Number of temporary jobs                 71      598       762     1,156     1,281      725
Numberof permanentjobs                  128      334       513      477       486       506
Total jobs created...     0       199      932     1,275     1,633     1,767     1,231
Employment created in the building/rehabilitation of infrastructure
1994   1995     1996     1997      1998       1999      2000
iNumber of temporary jobs           |             1   |58|762 |          1,156   |1,281    |    725
-Number of permanent jobs          l       l   128   l34l513 l           477    l   486   l    506
Total jobs created...      0       199      92     1,275    1,633      1 1,767    I ,3
- 41 -



Number of infrastructures createdlrehabilitated
Types                            1994   1995    1996    1997     1998    1999     2000
Education                                  6      33     49        59      33       52
Health                                     3      16      16        9       9       13
Water & Sanitation                         6      12     54       108      84       64
Production related                         1       9      9        11       3 _        5
Economic related                      _   _1              3                 2 _        3
Income Generating Activities                        I       I _             4       10
Total         I    16      71     131      187     135      147
Number of infrastructures createdlrehabilitated
Types                            1994   1995    1996    1997     1998    1999     2000
Education                                  6      33     49        59      33       52
Health                                     3      16      16        9       9       13
Water & Sanitation                         6      12      54      108      84       64
Production related                         1       9       9       11       3        5
Economic related                                   1      3                 2        3
Income Generating Activities                                                4       10
Total....           16     71     131      187     135      147
Disbursement Per Proiect Sub-Type
Global FAS I
Sub-Type              Amount Disbursed
Social-Education                       10,529,106.89
Social-Health                           2,625,737.85
Water & Sanitation                      4,583,720.49
Production Related                        759,637.52
Economic Related                          198,687.76
Income Generating Activities (IGA)        247,019.30
Total .18,943,909.81
- 42 -



Benguela                                                Namibe
Sub-Type              Amount Disbursed              Sub-Type          Amount Disbursed j
Social-Education                        1,902,547.63    Social-Education                1,557,987.34
Social-Health                             351,965.33    Social-Health                     539,074.24
Water & Sanitation                        397,669.03    Water & Sanitation               1,021,800.35
Production Related                        134,749.61    Production Related                 30,746.02
Economic Related                           3,297.00     Economic Related                    4,667.49
IGA                                       77,803.07     IGA                                88,870.941
Total ....,.2,868,031.67                         Total ......      3,243,146.38
Cabinda                                                 Huila
Sub-Type              Amount Disbursed  |           Sub-Type       | Amount Disbursed
Social-Education                        1,479,911.73    Social-Education                  947,742.24
Social-Health                             770,168.011   Social-Health                     357,114.77
Water & Sanitation                        441,536 57    Water & Sanitation                853,071.52
Production Related                             0.00     Production Related                183,880.66
Economic Related                          105 309.96    Economic Related                   50,596.67
GA                                         8 520 42    IGA                                49,694.40
Total              2,805,446.69                  Total             2,442,100.26
Cunene                                                  Bengo
Sub-Type              Amount Disbursed              Sub-Type          Amount Disbursed
Social-Education                          732,093.60    Social-Education                  874,687.90
Social-Health                             44.307 .78    Social-Health                      96,836.92
Water & Sanitation                        782.745.90    Water & Sanitation                128,581.81
Production Related                        212,017 56    Production Related                 75,381.99
Economic Related                               0.00j    Economic Related
JIGA                                           0.001    IGA
Total              1,771,164.84                  Total             ,175,488.62
Luanda                                                  Kwanza-Sul
Sub-Type              Amount Disbursed              Sub-Type          Amount Disbursed
Social-Education                        1,403,320.75    Social-Education                 1,466,494.15
Social-Health                              28.154.37    Social-Health                     344,198.48
Water & Sanitation                        631,016.84    Water & Sanitation                275,358.78
Production Related                        81,580.30     Production Related                 35,093.01
Economic Related                               0_00     Economic Related                   15,246.91
IGA                                            0.00     IGA                                22,130.47
Total ......       2,144,072.26                  Total             2,158,521.80
Huambo
Sub-Type       .      ...Amount Disbursed
Social-Education           ....164,321.551
Soial-Health              ....93,917.95|
Water & Sanitation           ....51,939.691
Production Related           ....6.188.371
Economic Related                           1... 9 569.73
IfGA                      ....0 00
Total .......       335,937.2~9
- 43 -



Total Beneficiaries per Project Sub-Tyie
Global FAS I
Sub-Type                Beneficiaries
Social-Education                           168,606
Social-Health                              250,454
Water & Sanitation                         362,513
Production Related                          54,919
Econormic Related                          165,720
-44 -



Additional Annex 9. Administrative Costs of FAS
Operational/Recurrent Costs - FAS I/ World Bank
(US$ ,OO0)
ITEM       /                 95       96        97       98        99     2000   TOTAL
Year
Maintenance supplies        19.3      6.9      3.9     190.6        0     47.3      268.0
Tools and utensils             (        0                                               0
Other supplies          _             9.7     12.2       7.4       .5       3.0      32.8
Various materials            5.3       .9       .5       5.0       .5                12.2
Airplane rentals                     11.8     24.8                                   36.6
Representation                                           5.6       .2                 5.8
Transportation - staff                        10.5      59.6      2.7       1.6      74.4
Transportation - goods     147.2        0                                           147.2
Minatenance and repairs     34.9                                   .5       .8       36.2
Mail, telephone and fax               2.2     19.3      19.6      8.5       2.3      51.9
Travel and subsistence                5.7     13.1      36.2      7.7                62.7
Consultant fees                       1.8                                             1.8
Marleting                             0.7     31.1      71.6      9.5               112.9
Wages                      160.9     84.1    726.7    911.9   1,137.0    383.0    3,403.6
Banking fees                 3.       0.7     41.6      45.3     15.3       1.1     107.3
Other                        3.1        0      9.2       8.3      5.6                26.2
Exchange rate variations              3.7      2.3      17.3        0                23.3
TOTAL                     374.0     128.2    895.2   1,378.4  1,188.0    439.1    4,402.9
This table does not include operational costs financed by other sources. Taking all sources into account,
the total operational costs are US $5.5 million The data also exclude the costs for FAS's offices, goods,
vehicles and equipment. Adding it all, operational costs would total US $7.9 million.
-45 -



Additional Annex 10. List of main reports prepared by GMCVP
Studies/Survey Reports - 1996/97 to 2000
1.    Poverty Profile
2.    Survey report on the Socio-Demographics of the Displaced Population
3.    Final survey report on the Multiple Indicators (MICS)
4.    Final survey report on the zones for final destination of the displaced population
5.    Final survey report on the technical staff of the Public Administration
6.    Poverty Profile in Kwanza Sul
7.    Study on the relation between Citizens/Economic Agents and the Public Administration
8.    Final survey report on the willingness and capacity to pay for Basic Social Services
9.    Final survey report on the Beneficiaries of the FAS
10.   Manual on gender statistics
11.   Main results on the survey on the living conditions in Kwanza Sul
12.   Poverty in urban and peri-urban areas
13.   Poverty Reduction Policies (searching for equity and efficiency)
14.   Poverty Note
15.   The role of women in Angola's rural society: statistical analyses on gender
16.   Angola: Benchmarks for poverty and performances indicators monitoring
17.   The Role of the State in Poverty Alleviation (The Angolan Case)
18.   The Impact of the radio media in the Angolan Society
19.   Poverty profile: new and revised data
- 46 -



Additional Annex 11. Borrower's ICR - original version, in Portuguese, with attachments
GOVERNO DE ANGOLA
RELATORIO FINAL DE IMPLEMENTACAO
PROJECTO DE ACCAO SOCIAL
(CREDITO 2802-ANG)
- FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL (FAS)
- GABINETE DE MONITORIZACAO DAS CONDICOES DE
VIDA DA POPULACAO (GMCVP)
OUTUBRO 2001
- 47 -



Relat6rio Final de Implementacio do Proiecto - Proiecto de Accio Social
I - IntroduVdo
O Projecto de Ac,co Social - PAS, pretendeu em 1995, assistir o pais na transigdo da guerra para a paz,
focalizando em particular a populacao mais afectada pela crise militar e econ6mica.
Negociado e aprovado em finais de 1995, o credito 2802-ANG no valor de $US 24 milhoes, tomou-se
efectivo em 21 de Margo de 1996 e financiou durante o periodo de 1996-2000, custos operacionais,
reabilitaq5o e construqao de infra-estruturas, equipamentos, veiculos, consultoria, treinamento,
inqueritos e estudos, para duas componentes:
a)     Componente A (Fundo de Accao Social) executada pelo Fundo de Apoio Social - FAS, com um
orSamento inicial de 17.44 $US milhles, teve como principal missao financiar subprojectos identificados e
implementados com a participa,ao das comunidades locais.
b)     Componente B (Monitorizacao da Pobreza) executada pelo Gabinete de Monitorizacao das
Condicoes de Vida da Populaq5o - GMCVP, com umn or9amento inicial de 4.56 $US milhoes, teve como
principal tarefa financiar relevantes pesquisas sobre a pobreza, resultados sociais e a monitoria sistematica
da pobreza atraves de realizagao de inqueritos.
Os objectivos especificos do projecto foram nomeadamente:
a) aumentar o acesso aos servicos bAsicos atraves da construcao e/ou reabilitagao de infra-estruturas
comunitarias;
b) reforcar as capacidades das comunidades e ONGs, para planificar, avaliar, gerir e manter as
actividades investidas, atraves da experiencia adquirida ao longo do projecto;
c) gerar rendimentos e empregos adicionais nas areas rurais e urbanas, atraves de Subprojectos
geradores de rendimento;
d) aumentar a capacidade das instituiq6es angolanas para a colecta e analise dos dados relativos a
pobreza;
e) prover um melhor entendimento das varias causas da pobreza de forma a ajudar a formular
estrategias de alivio a pobreza e gerar politicas adequadas para o desenvolvimento s6cio
econ6rico.
-48 -



COMPONENTE A - FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL - FAS
1) Contextogeral
0 Programa Econ6mico e Social do Governo para 1994 (PES/94), no seu capitulo "Outras Politicas
Globais" concedeu particular destaque as politicas de combate a pobreza, procurando equacionar a sua
abordagem nao apenas na perspectiva imediata, conjuntural, mas tambem, numa 6ptica de erradicagao da
pobreza estrutural a longo prazo.
Esta componente do programa constituiu uma resposta do Governo aos graves problemas sociais que o
Pais atravessou na altura, nomeadamente o empobrecimento progressivo de faixas cada vez mais vastas da
popula,co, em consequencia nao apenas do reacender da guerra ap6s as eleig6es de Setembro de 1992, mas
tambem da ausencia de medidas de correcqo das distorg6es s6cio-econ6micas herdadas da dominacao
colonial e acentuadas pelo modelo econ6mico adoptado ap6s a independencia.
Neste sentido, e a semelhanga do que acontecia em varios paises em desenvolvimento, sobretudo da
America Latina e Africa, o Govemo de Angola, criou o Fundo de Apoio Social com objectivo de:
- aumentar e melhorar o acesso aos servicos basicos sociais, atraves da reabilitasao e/ou construcao
de infra-estruturas;
- aumentar a capacidade local para a identificaqao, implementagao e manutengao dos projectos
financiados;
- gerar rendimentos adicionais e emprego, principalmente no meio rural, atraves da implementa9ao
de projectos geradores de rendimento;
- proporcionar uma maior compreensao das causas da pobreza em Angola, de forma a ajudar a
formular estrategias de alivio da pobreza e a conceber politicas adequadas ao desenvolvimento
s6cio-econ6mico, fortalecendo a capacidade das instituiqces angolanas para a recolha e analise de
dados relativos a pobreza.
Este instrumento, foi criado com vista a nao substituir-se aos 6rgaos da administracao central e local do
Estado, mas sim coadjuvar a sua accao em regioes (e junto das populac6es), que a acqao do estado, pelos
pr6prios condicionalismos, nao pode abranger na altura.
2) FAS como instrumento de alivio a pobreza
O Fundo de Apoio Social - FAS, foi criado em 28 de Outubro de 1994 ao abrigo do Decreto 44/94, do
Conselho de Ministros, como uma agencia govemarnmental aut6noma, dotada de personalidade juridica e
gozando de autonomia financeira e administrativa, com meios e procedimentos pr6prios, que Ihe
permitissem actuar com celeridade, eficiencia e eficacia, sendo dotada de meios de controlo simples e
transparentes, da utiliza$ao dos recursos colocados sob sua gestao, por forma a promover o alivio social e
o combate a pobreza, viabilizando a incorporaqao da populagio no processo de reconstru$3o e de
desenvolvimento econ6mico e social do Pais, atraves do financiamento de pequenos projectos.
No acto da sua criacao, foi-lhe atribuido um caracter nacional, o que significa dizer que o FAS pode
estender a sua ac,co a todas as areas que revelem real necessidade e aos sectores s6cio-econ6micos que
contribuam para melhorar as condicoes de vida das respectivas popula,ces, desde que as condicoes o
permitam. Para assegurar o alcance deste pressuposto, foi concebida uma estrutura organizacional sensivel
e relativamente independente dos esquemas institucionais tradicionais do sector publico, que no seu desenho
- 49 -



inclui:
-   Autonomia administrativa e financeira e apoio politico.
-   Possibilidade de contrata,ao de pessoal qualificado sem as restric,es pr6prias dos regimes laborais
do sector puiblico.
- Processos mais simples e ageis para execu,cao de projectos.
-  Metodologia de ac,ao que envolve os conceitos de gestAo social moderna de programas e projectos,
ou seja, focalizacAo, sustentabilidade e participa,ao social.
-   Gestao descentralizada, com dois niveis de decisao: um nacional e outro provincial, com distinqao
nitida de funo6es entre a Unidade Nacional de Coordena,Ao - (concep,ao e cria,co de condig6es
adequadas A implementa,cao, como a mobiliza>ao dos parceiros sociais nacionais e intemacionais,
a promo,ao, divulga,ao e imagem do Fundo, bem como a representa,ao do FAS) -, enquanto que
as representa,ces Provinciais intervem, fundamentalmente como agencias locais de financiamento
de projectos comunitarios.
3) Caracteristicas do FAS
Tendo sido criado no limiar de mais um periodo de transicao da guerra para a paz e num quadro de
prepara,ao e implementacao de urn programa de estabilizacao econ6mica, foi claramente definida a sua
Area de interven,cao e a necessidade de estabelecimento de complementaridades e sinergias com outras
iniciativas do Govemo, nomeadarnente com    os programas da Mesa Redonda (Bruxelas), de
Microrealiza,6es (UE) e de Desenvolvimento Comunitario (PRC).
Nos seus mecanismos e procedimentos foi bem definida a participa,ao dos distintos actores sociais, a
adop,ao de metodos participativos na tomada de decisoes, os mecanismos de co-responsabilidades na
execu,co das ac,ces, a subcontrata,co de servi,os especializados e a realiza,co de auditorias (intemas e
externas).
Para assegurar o alcance dos pressupostos para o qual foi criado, o FAS teve em linha de conta alguns
principios, tais como:
-   Descentraliza,ao no processo de decisao, motivada pela necessidade de adequar o quadro nacional
de referencia do FAS ao mosaico socio-econ6mico e cultural local. A estrutura de gestAo
descentralizada e flexivel, permite a adapta,ao As realidades e a incorpora,ao de elementos locais
na formnulacao dos programas e na execucao dos projectos, incluindo nos sistemas de gestao e
funcionarnento dos mesmos.
-   Eficiencia e efectividade da gestAo, atraves da cria,Ao de procedimentos e mecanismos de gestao,
simples e transparentes, assentes numa base de responsabilidade, solidariedade e participa,cao, por
forma a permitir uma resposta rapida e adequada As solicitac,es das comunidades, uma presta,ao
de contas oportuna e conforne, a melhor aloca,ao de recursos disponiveis e a plena incorpora,Ao
da popula,cao beneficiaria no processo de desenvolvimento.
-   Concerta,co social e cria,ao de parcerias, constituidas como plataformas de dialogo e de
coopera,ao entre os parceiros do desenvolvimento - governamental e nao govemamental -,
visando ampliar as capacidades de formula,ao de estrategias adequadas a uma gestao dos recursos
mais transparente e eficaz.
4) Resultados alcancados (nroiectos e desembolsos)
Desde a sua cria,ao, o FAS financiou a construqao e reabilitacao de 687 infra-estruturas sociais, sendo
cerca de 33,8% no sector da educa,cao, 47,8% no sector de Agua e saneamento, 9,6% no sector de sauide, e
- 50 -



os restantes 8,8% a infra-estruturas ligadas ao apoio a produqao (mercados, pontecos, etc..) e a actividades
geradoras de rendimento.
Estas actividades, desenvolveram em 9 provincias do pais, nomeadamente: Cabinda, Namibe, Benguela,
Luanda, Bengo, Kwanza Sul, Huila, Kunene e Huambo, e tiveram o suporte financeiro, para alem do
Banco Mundial com uma participa,co atraves do credito 2802, no valor de 19.357.582,31 USD, e do
Govemo de Angola com USD. 2.383.113,39, de outros paises a titulo de doa,co tais como:
-  Reino da Holanda - USD. 908.957,64
-  Reino da Noruega - USD. 2.676.466,42
-  Reino da Suecia - USD. 1.253.829,85
- Governo do Japao - USD. 674.000,00
-   Govemo da Italia - USD. 52.065,31
-  Outros (Ongs,Unicef, Igrejas) - USD. 1.028.355,79
-  Comunidade - USD. 1.779.389,98
A contribuicao nos custos das infra-estruturas construidas e reabilitadas, sobretudo em materiais e mao de
obra, que inicialmente estava para 20% de acordo com os procedimentos, orcou em 9,3%.
5) Constrangimentos (factores que constftuiram dif iculdades)
No decurso da sua implementac,ao o projecto deparou-se com algumas dificuldades, que de certa forma
influenciaran no alcance dos objectivos para o qual foi criado, tendo se destacado as seguintes:
-  A fraqueza e a falta de organizacao da sociedade civil (ONGs, Associacoes, Igrejas etc..), o que
dificultou a criacao de parcerias, de forma a facilitar o fortalecimento do capital humano e social
das comunidades, por um lado, e por outro, fez com que o FAS que inicialmente deveria ser uma
agencia fmanciadora, assumisse o papel tambem de agencia implementadora.
-  A ausencia do sistema bancario na maior parte das provincias onde o FAS estava implementado,
dificultando o bom funcionamento do sistema de desembolsos.
-  A dificuldade de aplica,co com rigor e rapidez das normas e procedimentos de aquisi,6es de
materiais e contrata9ao de obras, por falta de aceitaqao por parte do sector empresarial. Neste
capitulo destacam-se ainda a grande lirnitacao e falhas do mercado local no fornecimento de bens e
servicos.
-   0 grau de pobreza bastante elevado ao nivel das comrunidades beneficiarias, o que dificultou uma
maior participa,cao nos custos das infra-estruturas.
-  As dotacoes nao regulares dos fundos provenientes do Orcamento Geral do Estado, provocando a
nao regularizacao em tempo dos compromissos com fornecedores, e que os custos de
funcionamento fossem cobertos pelo fumdos do IDA.
-  0 montante da conta especial bastante baixo (1996-1998 USD 750.000 e 1998-2000 USD.
1.500.000) para fazer face as necessidades sobretudo no financiamento de subprojectos, para alem
da demora por parte do Banco Mundial na realimenta,co da mesma (media 25 dias).
-  As mudancas constantes no staff do Banco Mundial do responsavel (Task Manager) pelo projecto
(PPF- Amolo Ngweno, 1995-97 Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo e 1997-2000 Laura Frigenti).
-  A fraqueza do quadro macro-econ6mico de Angola, a exemplo da inflacao, que teve repercuss6es
negativas no funcionamento do projecto, sobretudo na alteracao dos precos dos bens e servicos
adquiridos e na realizacao de despesas nao previstas.
-  A falta de entendimento, logo de inicio, por parte das autoridades governamentais locais, do
- 51 -



verdadeiro papel do FAS como fundo aut6nomo, o que tomou moroso o relacionamento esperado.
-  A continuidade da guerra no pais, que dificultou nao s6 a expansao do FAS a outras provincias
conforme estava estabelecido (9 cobertas, das 14 previstas), como tambem a outros municipios nas
provincias em que realizou a sua actividade, de forma a financiar mais subprojectos e
consequentemente abranger um maior niunero de beneficiarios.
6) Lickes aprendidas
Pode-se considerar que o projecto teve um desempenho satisfat6rio, muito embora estarnos conscientes que
se poderia fazer mais tendo em conta os objectivos inicialmente tra,ados e a real situacao vivida ao longo
do mesmo. As li,ces aprendidas durante a implementa,cao deste projecto podem melhorar o desempenho da
segunda fase e de outros programas do genero.
Destas lic6es destacam-se as seguintes:
a) Beneficio da descentralizacao - pela grandeza e a diversidade cultural do pais, por um lado, e as
especificidades dos problemas e a forma da sua resolucao, particular para cada provincia, o
modelo de gestao descentralizada adoptado foi o mais apropriado.
b) Reforco do Capital Humano - grande atencao foi dada ao capital fisico (infra-estrutura) perdendo
de vista a questao do reforco do capital humano, nao s6 a nivel das comunidades como a nivel dos
agentes de desenvolvimento (ONGs, Associa,6es, Igrejas etc..), o que dificultou o
engajamnento/participacao destes, no processo do ciclo do projecto, e sobretudo na sustentabilidade
das infra-estruturas.
c) Redifini,co da Estrategia de intervencao - face aos problemas de inseguranca, acompanhamento
das actividades, efeito irradiador das ac,6es e aproveitamento das potencialidades das
comunidades, a opcao do trabalho em eixo (em detrimento da cobertura total da provincia com
ac,oes isoladas) a nivel de cada provincia trouxe resultados positivos.
d) Fraco aproveitamento das capacidades dos Comites de Coordena,ao - o papel dos comites de
coordenaco deveria ser mais activo e participativo, se forem introduzidos alguns sistemas de
incentivos (nao materiais nem financeiros) de forma em primeiro lugar a engajar os membros que
fazem parte e consequentemente a Institui,co que representam.
e) Sistema de Aquisi,ces/Finan,as - a aplica,co rigorosa, das nornas e procedimentos de aquisi,ces
e financas, possibilita a ter uma melhor planificacao das actividades, e, poderi ter um papel
educador junto do empresariado nacional.
f) Falta de un sistema apropriado de Monitoria e Avaliacao - o sistema de informacao do FAS
apresentava bastante informasao sobre a implementa,co das infra-estruturas, na maior pouco
utilizada a tomada de decisao. Este sistema nao apresentava a recolha de dados qualitativos que
tambem sao bastante importantes para avaliacao do impacto das actividades
7) Factores que contribuiram para o sucesso do Proiecto
O presente relat6rio tem como prop6sito, de relatar sobre as actividades desenvolvidas, e servir de
instrumento de reflexao. Neste sentido parece oportuno destacar os principais pontos que contribuiram para
o sucesso e sustentabilidade do projecto. Destacamos os seguintes:
1) 0 FAS foi bem aceite junto as comunidades e Govemos Locais, tomando-se na maioria dos casos o
parceiro mais importante na resolucao dos problemas.
2) 0 rigor exigido no trabalho das equipas, possibilitou a que cada um dos membros adquirisse
diversificadas habilitacoes, em particular em gestao e administracao.
- 52 -



3) A experiencia adquirida a nivel de construcao e reabilita,co de infra-estruturas e o desempenho dos
membros das equipas em questoes de procurment em particular, contribuiram bastante para a
qualidade das infra-estruturas.
4) A aplicaqao com exito dos procedimentos, serviu de modelo para que outras organizacoes
utilizassem o mesmo sistema para o seu trabalho junto as comunidades.
COMPONENTE B - GABINETE DE MONITORIZACAO DAS CONDICOES DE VIDA DA
POPULACAO - GMCVP
Introdusao
0 GMCVPA teve como precedente a Unidade de Pobreza (Poverty Monitoring Unit) que foi criada em
1993 pelo Govemo Angolano pelo decreto Ministerial 017/DRH/93, que era um 6rgao independente no
Instituto Nacional de Estatistica, INE, (cf. The World Bank Document, Report N 14822-ANG, November
28, 1995, Human Resources Operations Division, Southern Africa Department, Africa Region, pages 17,
18). Infelizmente o orcamento aloucado na altura nao permitiu que a referida unidade e o INE pudessem
funcionar com os objectivos preconizados na altura. Assim uma nova restruturacao do INE, que passou
pelo Conselho de Ministro, transformou a referida unidade no GMCVPA (cf. relat6rio final completo).
Assim o GMCVP foi criado pelo decreto executivo n. 9/97 de 28 de Fevereiro e competia-lhe as seguintes
tarefas:
Colaborar com os 6rgaos competentes do Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (INE) na definicao dos
principais indicadores relativos as condicoes de vida da populacao; Realizar analises e estudos que apoiem
a definicao da politica de combate A pobreza e de melhoria das condiq6es de vida da populacao; Promover
a realizacao de inqueritos e a realizacao de analises e estudos sobre os grupos mais vulnerAveis da
popula,ao; Organizar e manter actualizada uma base de dados relativos a pobreza em Angola.
Staff e Administracao
0 staff do GMCVPA evoluiu com o tempo. No seu comeco, em 1997, o staff era composto somente por 3
pessoas nomeadamente o Chefe do Gabinete, o Coordenador de Estudos, e o Responsavel pela area de
Informatica. 0 Chefe do Gabinete e o Coordenador de Estudos em colaboracao com o Director do INE
elaboraram os documentos base do gabinete, nomeadamente o Manual de Procedimentos e os organigramas
funcionais do gabinete. Entre 1997 e 1998 foram criados os Comite de Informacao sobre as Condic6es de
Vida da Populacao e o Comite Tecnico para a Seleccao e Avaliacao de Propostas de Estudos. Ambos
estiveram sob coordenacao do Coordenador de Estudos e sob supervisao do Chefe do Gabinete e do
Director do INE. Em 1998, o staff do gabinete aumentou para 6 pessoas com a inclusao da
Administradora, da Contabilista e de um Acessor para as questoes contabilistas e financeiras.
Resumo dos Desembolsos e Estado financeiro final
Este projecto foi sustentado pelo Credito IDA 28020-ANG, num montante previsto de USD 3 020 000,00.
De igual modo e devido a transferencia de cerca de USD 500 000,00 do montante inicial do credito da
parte B para a parte A houve necessidade, para se cobrir as despesas do gabinete sobretudo nos filtimos
seis meses, de se recorrer ao Trust Fund 20404-ANG da Suecia cujo o montante disponivel, para a parte B,
foi equivalente a cerca de USD 257 000,00 abrangidos por 8 pedidos. Para o credito IDA 28020-ANG
- 53 -



foram realizados 54 pedidos de realimenta,co da Conta Especial (desembolsos) cobrindo urn montante de
USD 2 858 000 onde se inclui os pagamentos directos e a recupera,co da Conta Especial. Estes
desembolsos cobriram as categorias 2B (equipamentos) 5 (consultoria) e 6B (custos operacionais).,
Programa de Implementasao
Essencialmente o programa de implementa,co do GMCVP residiu na cria,ao de condiq6es para a produ,ao
de informa,co estatistica fiavel para ajudar na decisao e a elabora,Ao de estudos e criac,o de uma "task
force" na realiza,co de tarefas ligadas a produ,ao, analise e disseminacao desta informnac,o. Para tal foi
necessario a cria,co de condi,coes materiais, humanas e fmanceiras. 0 seu principal eixo de ac,cao foi a
realiza,co de inqueritos por amostragem, de maior ou menor dimensao, e o refor,o e capacitacao da "task
force" intema no sentido de responder as exigencias do mercado e aumentar o nivel de resposta, no espa,o
e no tempo, do INE, o que realmente veio a acontecer sobretudo, nos dois dltimos anos.
Na estrutura organizativa do GMCVPA a maioria das tarefas das sub unidades foram realizadas com um
certo exito. As tabelas em anexo, no relat6rio completo, ilustram as tarefas desenvolvidas (inqueritos e
estudos) deste 1996 (nesta data a estrutura do GMCVPA jA estava montada e quase funcional, pois tivera
herdado os mecanismos da remota Unidade da Pobreza).
a      Cumprimento do piano de trabalho
De maneira geral o plano de trabalho foi cumprido para alem do definido em nuimero de tarefas realizadas.
Os inqueritos que estavam previstos e que nao foram realizados (Inquerito Prioritario II e o Inquerito
Comunitario) foram substituidos por outros em nilmero superior e de igual dimensao ou ainda maiores,
nomeadamente o Inquerito sobre a Capacidade e Disposic,o de Pagar Servi,os Sociais Basicos e os
Inqueritos PRIMA (Inquerito aos quadros tecnicos da Administra,co Publica e o Inquerito sobre a rela,co
entre os Cidadaos e a Administra,co Publica) estes dois filtimos foram financiados por fundos externos ao
projecto e ao Banco Mundial ou seja fundos do Ministerio da Administra,ao Publica Emprego e Seguran,a
Social, MAPESS.
De igual modo a area de estudos tambem realizou as suas tarefas dentro do periodo definido e com as
condi,6es que tinham sido criadas. Real,a-se a forrna,co do Comite Tecnico para a Selec,ao e Avalia,ao
de Propostas de Estudos (compostos de iminentes consultores nacionais representando diversas instituic6es
cf. anexo), a elaborawco de um folheto de dissemina,ao do programa de estudos que foi divulgado em todas
as instituiLoes de ensino superior do estado e a capacita,co de individuos de outras institui,ces assim
como a realizac,ao de seminarios no ambito da Semana Angolana de Estatistica em 1999 e em 2000.
Realca-se tambem a constitui,ao de uma base de dados s6cio-econ6micos e uma listagem de estudos feitos
no gabinete e/ou por individualidades extemas ao gabinete com algum apoio do gabinete (em informa,co
estatistica e metodologia).
*      DisseminaVAo dos resultados
Talvez seja o item onde as actividades desenvolvidas deveriam ter sido ainda maiores o que de certa
maneira nao foi possivel pois as actividades que eram realizadas pelo gabinete deixavam pouco tempo e
espa,o para tal devendo-se ao nuimero bastante reduzido do staff. Entretanto, com a cria,ao do gabinete
surgiu uma certa capacidade de resposta as necessidades da sociedade em questoes de informna,co
estatistica como tambem disseminacao desta mesma informna,co.
A participa,co do staff do gabinete em palestras de nivel nacional e intemacional (por exemplo as jomadas
- 54 -



tecno cientificas da FESA) assim como em programas radiofonicos e/ou televisivos permitiu, de certa
maneira, mostrar quanto e importante a utifiza,ao de estatisticas para a boa govemacao e a planifica,co.
*      Alvos especificos do programa de monitorizapio
O programa de monitoriza,co do gabinete reflectiu mais na capacita,co de t&cnicos quer do INE como de
institui,ces do Estado que fizessem a solicitacao. Esta capacita,co referia-se as tecnicas de inquerito e
supera,ao a nivel de software de estatistica ou de base de dados (Excel e SPSS). De igual modo tambem
foram realizadas ac,ces de capacitagao aos quadros ligados ao gabinete (efectivos e nao efectivos ou seja
do INE no GMCVP).
Desenvolvimento do Projecto
*      Estudos
Um dos grandes objectivos da criacao do GMCVPA foi a cria,co de um potencial humano para a
realiza,ao de estudos. Este potencial foi criado e baseou-se, para realizac,o de estudos, na informa,co
estatistica produzida intemamente assim como na informaiw o disponivel fora do gabinete. E assim que no
quadro do programa de estudos foram realizados varios estudos realcando-se o estudo produzido por um
elemento do gabinete "A Situa,co da Mulher Angolana, Analises Estatisticas sobre o Genero", Manual
sobre Genero, os estudos em forma de relatorios finais de inqueritos nomeadamente o "Relat6rio sobre
Indicadores Muiltiplos" e o "Estudo sobre a Capacidade e Disposic,o no Pagamento de Servicos Sociais
Basicos". Tambem e referencia o estudo sobre "O Impacto da Imprensa Radiofonica na nossa Sociedade" e
a Nota da Pobreza. Realca-se tambem a participa,co do gabinete na disponibilidade de informac,o
estatistica para a realiza,co dos Relat6rios de Desenvolvimento Humano em Angola, anos 1998 e 1999.
Contabiliza-se um total de 17 estudos realizados pelo gabinete durante os 4 anos e 4 meses de existencia.
Resultados do Sistema de Monitorizasao
Os resultados do sistema de monitorizacao, foram positivos a partir do momento em que se comec,ou a
utilizar a informa,co estatistica produzida e analisada pelo GMCVPA para referenciar ou formular
politicas, programas e projectos. 0 Perfil da Pobreza feito em 1996 (ja com a participac,o do quadro do
pessoal do gabinete) foi a primeira grande prova. A sua larga disseminac,o e apresentac,o em varios
f6runs foi feita pela staff do gabinete.
Em 1997, a "task force" do gabinete participou e coordenou a analise dos resultados do Inquerito sobre
Indicadores Muiltiplos (MICS) em colaboracao com quadros do INE. 0 referido relat6rio foi e ainda e a
base de consulta de referencia para os indicadores sociais e em particular sobre demografia, sauide e
educa,co referentes a Angola. Pese o facto do ano de 1997 ter sido o ano de implementacao e organizacao
do GMCVP, tambem comeSou a ser o periodo em que o gabinete era procurado para desenvolver diversas
actividades que iam deste a formac,o ate a realiza,co de inqueritos para alem das tarefas que o gabinete
tinha no seu cronograma.
Resultados das Auditorias Financeiras
Foram realizadas ate ao termo do gabinete 3 auditorias financeiras e administrativas, respectivamente aos
exercicios de 1997/1998, 1999 e 2000. A primeira auditoria abrangeu o periodo de implementa,co ou seja
o ano de 1997 e o exercicio de 1998. Nesta auditoria, como em todas as outras, foi feita o controlo da
qualidade de gestao do aludido projecto, pelo exame das informa,ces contidas no plano de desembolsos e
- 55 -



no mapa dos desembolsos efectuados em USD.
Resumo das Avaliac,es T&enicas
Forain feitas, desde Margo de 1997 ate Junho de 2001, 10 avaliacoes tecnicas por parte do Banco Mundial
na pessoa do Sr. John Y. Ngwafon (Poverty Economist, Quality and Knowledge Department (AFTQK),
Africa Region). Estas avaliac6es tiveram como principal objectivo verificar in loco o desenvolvimento das
actividades previstas e tomar nota das dificuldades existentes. Uma das actividades de maior realce para o
gabinete foi, sem sombras de duividas, a realiza9do do Inqu6rito aos Agregados Familiares sobre Despesas
e Receitas (IDR) que teve uma dura9ao entre a preparacao e o trabalho de campo ou recolha de dados
cerca de 24 meses. A avaliacao tecnica feita, particularmente para esta actividade foi bastante intensa e
continua uma vez que foi a primeira vez que Angola realizou uma actividade deste calibre. Real9a-se que a
mesma foi positiva e s6 houve a participacao de, somente, um consultor intemacional.
Consultoria e Resultados
0 GMCVPA pelo seu caracter funcional teve que trabalhar bastante com consultores, quer nacionais como
intemacionais. Este facto surgia sobretudo aquando da realiza,ao de inqueritos ou de alguns estudos. E
assimn que houve necessidade de se contratar urn consultor intemacional especializado em inqueritos para
acompanhar ou acessorar o staff do gabinete na preparaqao e realiza9io do IDR. De igual modo a maioria
do pessoal de campo que realizou os inuimeros inqueritos foram contratados como consultores nacionais
sem os quais o gabinete nao poderia de maneira alguma realizar este tipo de actividade.
Em geral as consultorias solicitadas pelo GMCVPA foram positivas no sentido em que as mesmas
responderam cabalmente os objectivos fixados e acima de tudo criaram e deixaram alguma capacita9ao
local. Relativamente os consultores intemacionais individuais ou colectivos os mesmos foram orientados,
atraves dos respectivos Termos de Refer8ncia, de trabalharem em conjunto com o staff do gabinete e
criarem capacita9ao dos mesmos nas materias onde houvesse ainda urna certa debilidade.
Problemas Encontrados e Lieoes Apreendidas
Deste a sua implementa9ao o GMCVPA teve que ultrapassar uma serie de problemas devido ao facto de
ser algo de novo. Foi necessario criar-se os documentos chave que deveriamn nortear o seu funcionamento,
foi necessario criar-se as condig6es materiais e financeiras para se comegar a trabalhar e subsequentemente
encontrar-se as pessoas certas para os postos ainda vacantes e que deveriam responder com as nonnas
exigidas pelo Banco Mundial. Nota-se aqui o fraco apoio das entidades do Banco Mundial relativamente ao
facto deste projecto nao ter tido uma ateniao acrescida, nas questoes ligadas aos "procurements" e
sobretudo aos desembolsos o que originou o retomo de diversos documentos enviados para o Banco
Mundial, durante o seu primeiro ano de exist8ncia, devido as anomalias que figuravam.
Um outro facto foi o registo de demoras nos pedidos de desembolsos, desde o envio ate a recepqao do
dinheiro na Conta Especial. Os mesmos eram bastante longos o que originava grandes constrangimentos
nas nossas actividades perigando, muitas vezes, a respectiva continuadao sobretudo aquando da realiza9ao
do inquerito aos agregados familiares sobre despesas e receitas.
Tambem foi not6rio a falta de documentos escritos apos as avaliag6es tecnicas. S6 se sabia se as coisas
estavarn a correr bem ou mal quando se conversava com elementos da equipa de avaliadao. Actualmente no
gabinete s6 existe um "aide memoire" da derradeira avaliadao feita.
- 56 -



Ha a realcar a pouca clareza institucional das competencias do Chefe do GMCVPA e do Director do INE.
Isto porque os documentos do Banco Mundial permitiam a autonomia total ao Chefe do GMCVPA para a
contrata,co de pessoal e manuseamento da Conta Especial do projecto dando a conhecer ao Director do
INE posteriormente. Esta posi,co foi contestada pela direccao do INE originado a ruptura do contrato do
Chefe do gabinete em 1999.
ANEXO 1 - Mapa de Angola com as provincias cobertas pelo FAS, e numero de projectos por provincia e
por sub-tipo de projecto
ANEXO I - Mapa de Angola.Di
ANEXO 2 - Financiadores
FINANCIADORES - FAS 1 (1994-2000) - USD
Out. Finan   NORUEGA      HOLANDA      ITALIA    SUtCIA        TOTAL
0.00     13,951.71       0.00      0.00         0.00   2,413,504.21
1,028,355.79  2,243,179.59  886,678.10 52,065.31  1,227,719.76  18,943,909.81
0.00    117,268.59   20,424.00     0.00         0.00   2,583,835.91
0.00    302,066.53    1,797.71     0.00    26,100.09   5,498,442.93
1,028,355.79  2,676,466.42  908,899.81 52,065.31 1,253,819.85 29,439,692.86
ANEXO 3
FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL - FAS
Datas Relevantes
>k     Margo 1993 - Reconhecimento pelo Governo da necessidade de cria,ao de mecanismos
apropriados de combate a pobreza, face a critica situa,co humanitaria vigente no pais.
>      Julho 1993 - Tem lugar a primeira missao conjunta Banco Mundial - Fundo Monetario -
Govemo de Angola para estabelecer o plano de implementac,o do FAS. 0 Governo de
Angola esteve representado nesta missao pela Direcc,o de Desenvolvimento Econ6mico
e Social do Ministerio do Planeamento.
>      Maio 1994 - Aprovado pelo Banco Mundial o PPF (Project Preparation Facility) no valor
de 2,0 milhoes de d6lares americanos
Setembro 1994 - Abertura do FAS/Kwanza Sul, para testar numa fase experimental de 6 meses os
mecanismos estabelecidos (procedimentos, mecanismos, grupos alvo, formato das unidades etc)
Setembro de 1994 - Aprovada e efectividade a Doa,co do Japao (Trust Fund) no valor de USD
- 57 -



674.000,00
>      Outubro de 1994 - Aprovado em sessao do Conselho de Ministros do dia 28, o Decreto n 44/94 que
cria o Fundo de Apoio Social - FAS
>      Dezembro 1994 - Dado aos resultados nao satisfat6rios da primeira avaliagao a Provincia do
Kwanza Sul , decidiu-se alargar a fase piloto para mais provincias e alargar o horizonte temporal desta fase
para Setembro de 1995.
>      Janeiro 1995 - Abertura do FAS/Cabinda.
>      Fevereiro 1995 - Abertura do FAS/Benguela e do FAS/Namibe
>      Julho 1995 - Entregue o primeiro projecto financiado pelo FAS. Posto de Sauide da Panda, na
provincia do Kwanza Sul.
>      Dezembro 1995 - Aprovacao do Acordo de Credito ANG-2802 pelo Board do Banco Mundial.
>      Janeiro 1996 - Assinatura do Acordo de Credito
>      Janeiro 1996 - Alterado em sessao do Conselho de Ministros o Decreto 44/94. A alteracao a estrutura
organica do FAS com a inclusao de mais entidades no Comite de Coordena,ao Nacional consta no Decreto
n04/96.
>      Fevereiro 1996 - Acordo de Credito ratificado pela Assembleia Nacional
>      Margo 1996 - Assinado o Acordo de Cessao de Credito
9>     Mar9o 1996 - 0 Acordo de Cr6dito torna-se efectivo, ap6s cumpridas todas as formalidades por
parte do Governo de Angola.
>      Abril 1996 - Abertura do FAS/Huila
>      Julho 1997 - Inicio da fase piloto das actividades Geradoras de Rendimento - AGR, nas provincias de
Cabinda, Kwanza Sul, Benguela, Huila, Namibe e Kunene.
>      Agosto 1996- Abertura FAS/Kunene
>      Setembro 1996 - Abertura do FASNiana e do FAS/Cacuaco
>      Janeiro 1997 - Abertura do FAS/Bengo
>      Abril 1997 - Aprovada e efectividade a Doacao do Reino da Holanda (Trust Fund) no valor de USD
1.000.000,00, destina-se ao financiamento de projectos do sector das aguas para as provincias da Huila,
Namibe e Kunene.
>      Mar9o 1998 - Missao de avalia9ao de m6dio prazo do projecto (Mid - term evaluation).
>      Julho 1998 - Aprovada e efectividade a Doacao Sueca (Trust Fund) no valor de USD 2.000.000,00.
>      Agosto 1998 - Aprovada e efectividade a Doa9ao Norueguesa (Trust Fund) no valor de USD
1.930.000,00.
>      Dezembro 1998 - Aprovada e efectividade a segunda Doacao Japonesa (Trust Fund) no valor de USD
674.000,00. Esta doacao Foi disponibilizada para preparar as condig6es de implementacao de um segundo
credito.
>      Agosto 1999 - Abertura do FAS/Huambo
>      Setembro 1999 - Assinado o acordo de Doa9ao USAID no valor de USD 500.000,00
>      Dezembro 2000 - Juncao das equipas de Viana e Cacuaco, para a formacao de uma equipa unica em
Luanda.
- 58 -



Additional Annex 12. Aide-memoire from ICR mission (October 2001)
ICR - Relatorio Final sobre a Implementaqao de Projeto
Projeto de Aqio Social - FAS 1 e GMCVP
Missao Final
Angola, 8 a 21 de Outubro de 2001
Aide-Memoire
A MISSAO
Uma missao do Banco Mundial composta de Elca Rosenberg e Willem Struben visitou Angola de
8 a 21 de Outubro de 2001 para a elaboraZao de um ICR - Relat6rio Final sobre a Implementavao
de Projeto (Implementation Completion Report). 0 presente ICR refere-se ao Projeto de Acao
Social, numero P000061, Cr 2802AO, que engloba dois componentes: a primeira fase do Fundo
de Acao Social (FAS1) e o Programa de MonitoraJco das Condi,ces de Vida e da Pobreza
(GMCVP). 0 componente do FAS iniciou-se em 1994, teve sua execucao efetivada em marco de
1996, e foi concluido em 31/12/00; o componente GMCVP iniciou as atividades em 1996, foi
efetivado em fevereiro de 1997, e foi concluido em 30/6/2001.
Os objectivos da missao incluem I) avaliar e comentar sobre i) quao apropriados foram os
objectivos do projeto; ii) a qualidade do desenho inicial do projeto; iii) a adequacao da
implementacao do projeto, tanto por parte do Governo quanto por parte do Banco; e II) criar a
oportunidade para uma discussao entre os diferentes atores com respeito as lio6es aprendidas a
partir do projeto. Os objectivos da missao foram todos atingidos e a primeira versao do ICR se
encontra anexa a este aide-memoire.
A missao trabalhou em estreita colaboracao com as equipas do FAS e do GMCVP e consultou
com representantes do Ministerio de Tutela e do Govemo em geral, dos doadores, das agencias
das Nacoes Unidas, e das ONGs [ver lista anexa]. Antes de seu inicio, a missao De particular
interesse foram a visita a Benguela de 11 a 13/10, e o seminario em Luanda em 16/10, com a
presenca de todos os diretores provinciais do FAS. 0 interesse de todos em contribuir com os
objectivos da missao e a abertura nas discussoes criam a possibilidade para que a preparacao do
ICR se converta em mais uma oportunidade para tirar licoes das experiencias implementadas.
OS RESULTADOS DO FAS
Em todos os contactos realizados, quer durante a visita a Angola quer com colegas em
Washington antes da partida, a rnissao sempre recebeu a informacao de que o FAS era uma
agencia que merecia a confianca de todos. Essa imagem confirma as razoes que levaram o Banco
Mundial a continuar apoiando o programa atraves de um segundo projeto, o FAS II.
Dentre os principais pontos positivos destacam-se os seguintes:
*   constru9ao de infraestrutura social, com 687 sub-projectos em 9 provincias, para atender
- 59 -



as necessidades de grupos vulneraveis nas areas rurais e peri-urbanas;
*   estabelecimento de um relacionamento efetivo com comunidades, ONGs, a sociedade civil
e os governos provinciais e locais;
*   boa qualidade dos sub-projectos, a um custo relativamente baixo;
*   imagem intacta de transparencia, confian,a, credibilidade, e neutralidade;
*   competencia, engajamento, eficiencia e espirito de colaborac,ao das equipas a todos os
niveis.
Por outro lado, constatou-se tambem algumas areas onde o FAS, na sua primeira fase, poderia ter
sido mais efectivo:
*   capacitacao das comunidades para assumir o seu papel nas varias fases dos sub-projectos;
*   preocupa,ao com a sustentabilidade dos sub-projectos, incluindo a garantia de provisao da
infornna,Ao e os recursos necessarios A operacao e manutencao das infraestruturas, e com
o impacto dos programas implementados;
*   inadequa,ao do sistema de informa,ao e gestao, assirn como precariedade do sistema de
monitoracAo e avaliacao.
Reconhece-se que todas as tres areas ja nao suscitam mais preocupa,oes pois foram alvo de uma
revisao de estrategia e/ou procedimentos para a implementa,ao do FAS II.
OS RESULTADOS DO GMCVP
As opinioes quanto ao componente relativo ao GMCVP nAo foram unanimes. Sao varias as
razoes nem com respeito aos objectivos nem com respeito aos resultados. Parte do problema
residiu no pr6prio desenho deste componente, parte nas mudancas ocorridas no INE no decurso
do projecto. Apesar de o GMCVP nao ter sido contemplado no novo projecto FAS II, o
Governo e o Banco Mundial estao preparando um novo projecto de apoio directo ao INE.
E reconhecido o valor dos varios inqueritos e estudos realizados pelo Gabinete assim como de
suas varias publicac6es [ver Tabela 3]. No entanto, i) o Gabinete nao atingiu o potencial na sua
capacidade de disseminar os resultados de forma mais abrangente; ii) nao foi obtida uma adequada
interliga,ao entre o Gabinete e o INE ao longo da execu,ao do projecto.
ASSUNTOS PENDENTES
1- Overdrafts: para a regularizacao final das contas especiais, o Director do INE se comprometeu
a repassar US$ 1.183,89 referentes A Conta Especial B (GMCVP), enquanto o Director do FAS
se comprometeu a repassar US$ 2. 144,29 referentes A conta especial C (FAS). Ficou acordado
que essa regulariza,ao estara completada dentro dos pr6ximos 30 dias.
2- Auditoria final: Na conversa final com o Director do INE ficou acordado que o Instituto se
responsabilizara pela auditoria final. A missao comprometeu-se em solicitar mais informac6es ao
departamento de gestao financeira e auditoria do Banco, que serao transmitidas aos responsaveis
do INE e do Gabinete.
- 60 -



3- Salarios finais: A missao foi informada sobre o problema, comum ao final de alguns projectos,
referente ao pagamento de alguns salarios a alguns funcionarios do Gabinete pelo tempo
dispensado apos 30/6/01 para a elaboracao dos relat6rios finais, prestacao final de contas,
preparacao do ICR, e possivelmente auditoria final. A missao solicitou infonnacao ao Task
Manager do Banco Mundial responsavel pela componente GMCVP, que se comprometeu em
verificar em que medida seria possivel pagar esses salarios com o saldo disponivel para o
componente, desde que se possa aceitar, excepcionalmente, a extensao ex-post dos contratos.
Caso isto nao se mostre viavel, a solucao tera que ser encontrada de outra forma, para remunerar
os servicos efetivamente prestados.
A PREPARACAO DO ICR - pr6ximos passos
Apos o retorno a Washington, a missao do Banco Mundial revisara e completara a versao
preliminar discutida com as equipas ao final da visita a Angola, incorporando os comentarios
recebidos durante a reuniao de wrap-up. Essa nova versao sera discutida com colegas do pr6prio
Banco e revisada conseqiientemente. Uma copia dessa versao sera enviada a Angola pelo Director
para Angola, juntamente com o aide-memoire final.
A essa versAo serao anexados posteriornente os relat6rios que estao sendo preparados pelas
equipas do projecto em Angola, relat6rios esses que deverao ser recebidos em Washington antes
de 1/11/01. Como, segundo informacao dos responsaveis pelo FAS e GMCVP, esses relat6rios
terao, em conjunto, mais de 10 paginas, serA necessaria a preparacao de um sumario para fazer
parte do corpo do relat6rio propriamente dito. Esse sumario devera ser preparado pelas equipas
angolanas, e sera incorporado ao relat6rio sem qualquer modificacio. 0 sumario tambem devera
ser recebido em Washington ate 1/1 1/01.
Uma reuniao formal para a apresentacao do documento completo esta prevista para o final de
novembro. 0 ICR, na sua versao final, sera enviado ao Conselho de Diretores Executivos do
Banco antes do final do corrente ano, com copia para o Governo de Angola.
AGRADECIMENTOS
A missao agradece o apoio do Govemo de Angola e a colaboracao de todas as pessoas
contactadas durante a visita a Angola. Em especial, a missao se sente grata pela atencao especial
que lhe foi dispensada por todos os membros do staff do FAS, em todos os niveis, e pelos varios
debates e troca de ideias que foram realizados, esperando ter tambem contribuido em alguma
medida para a consolidacao deste importante esforco nacional.
Luanda, 22 de Outubro de 2001
- 61 -



ICR - Implementation Completion Report
Social Action Project - FAS 1 and GMCVP
Angola, October 8 to 21, 2001
Informal translation of the Aide-Memoire
THE MISSION
A World Bank mission composed of Elca Rosenberg and Willem Struben visited Angola from
October 8 to 21, to prepare the Implementation Completion Report for the Social Action. The
project, number P000061, Cr 2802AO, encompasses two components: the first phase of the
Social Action Fund (FASI) and the Poverty Monitoring Component (GMCVP). The FAS
component started in 1994, became effective in March 1996, and closed on 12/31/00; the
GMCVP component started in 1996, became effective in February 1997, e was closed on
6/30/2001.
The mission objectives included A) evaluate and comment on: 1) the appropriateness of project
objectives; 2) the quality of project design at entry; 3) the adequacy of implementation on the
side of Government, including financial management aspects, and 4) adequacy of supervision on
the part of the Bank; and B) create an opportunity for Government and the Bank to distill broad
lessons from project implementation, which will be reflected in the ICR. All mission objectives
have been accomplished and the first preliminary draft of the ICR is attached to this
aide-memoire.
The mission worked in close collaboration with the FAS and GMCVP teams, and consulted with
representatives of the responsible ministry and of Government in general, donors, UN agencies,
and NGOs [see list of people met attached]. Of particular interest were the visit to Benguela
10/11-13] /10, and the full day brainstorm with all the FAS Provincial Directors who came to
Luanda on 10/16. The openness in the discussions as well as the interest on the part of everyone
have enhanced the likelihood that the preparation of the ICR will have been an opportunity for
learning additional lessons from the past experiences.
THE RESULTS OF FAS
Throughout its contacts, whether during the visit to Angola, whether with HQ colleagues before
departure, the mission systematically received information that FAS was a trustful agency. This
image confirms the reasons that led the Bank to continue to support the program through a
second project, FAS II.
The following stand among the main strengthens of FAS 1:
*   building of social infrastructure, with 687 sub-projects in 9 provinces, to meet the needs
of the vulnerable groups in rural and peri-urban areas;
* establishing an effective relationship with communities, NGOs, the civil society and local
- 62 -



and provincial governments;
*   good quality of the sub-projects, at a relatively low cost;
* being able to keep, throughout the project, the image of being transparent, trustful,
credible and neutral; and
*   the competence, commitment, efficiency and teamwork of the staff at all levels.
On the other hand, there were some areas where FAS, in its first phase, could have been more
effective, eg:
*   building the capacity of the communities for them to be able to play their role throughout
the sub-project cycle;
*        concern with the sustainability of the sub-projects, leading to uncertain provision of the
information and the resources necessary to the operation and maintenance of the
infrastructures; and
*   inadequacy of the management information system, and deficient monitoring and
evaluation system.
The mission recognizes that these three concerns are already being taken care of in FAS II
through changes in the strategy or in the procedures of the new project.
THE RESULTS OF GMCVP
The opinions regarding the GMCVP component were not unanimous, neither with respect to the
objectives nor regarding the results. Part of the problem seems to reside in the design of this
component, part in the changes that occurred in INE. Although GMCVP has not remained as a
component in the new FAS II project, the Government and the Bank are preparing a new
project to support INE directly.
Most people met recognized the value of the various surveys and studies conducted by
GMCVP, as well as its publications [see Table 3]. Nevertheless, i) the dissemination capacity
was not used to its full potential to ensure that the results would be widely known; ii)
throughout the life of the project, it was not possible to reach an adequate interconnection
between GMCVP and INE itself.
PENDING ISSUES
1- Overdrafts: there are questions of overdrafts in two special accounts. The Director of INE
agreed to pay US$ 1,183.89 regarding Special Account B (GMCVP), while the Director of
FAS agreed to pay se US$ 2, 144.29 regarding Special Account C (FAS). It was further agreed
that this issues would be solved within the next 30 days.
2- Final auditing: In a discussion with INE's Director on the last day, it was agreed that the
Institute would be responsible for the final audit. The mission promised to request more
information in the financial management department of the Bank which would be transmitted to
INE and GMCVP for reference.
- 63 -



3- Final wage payments: The mission was informed about the problem, not unusual at the
closing of projects, regarding the payment for the time that some of the staff from GMCVP has
used after 6/30/01 to prepare the final reports, the final account reconciliation, payments to the
provinces for the survey tasks done before the closing, the ICR report, and the final auditing still
to be done. The mission contacted the TTL for that component at HQ, who agreed to check the
possibilities to pay for that time with the project balance still unspent. One potential solution has
been identified. In case that is not feasible, the TTL will try to find another solution.
NEXT STEPS IN THE PREPARATION OF THE ICR
Upon returning to Washington, the mission will revise and will complete the preliminary version
discussed with the Angolan teams at the end of the visit, incorporating the comments received
during the wrap-up. This new version will be discussed with colleagues in the Bank e will again
be revised accordingly. A copy of this new version will be sent top Angola by the Country
Director, together with the final aide-memoire.
It is to that version that the reports being prepared by the Angolans will be attached. It was
agreed that these reports should be received in Washington by 1 1/5/01. Because the two reports
being prepared for the two components might have more than 10 pages, it was agreed that the
teams would also prepare a summary of their comments, which would be incorporated ipsis
literis in the body of the ICR report. It was further agreed that this summary would also reach
Washington by 11/5/01.
A formal review meeting, to discuss the complete ICR is scheduled for the end of November.
The ICR, in its final version, will be sent to the Board before the end of the calendar year, with
copy to Angola.
ACKNOWLEGEMENTS
The mission thanks the support of the GOA and the collaboration of all people met during the
visit. Particularly, the mission is grateful for the attention it received from the staff of FAS in all
levels, and for the debates and exchange of ideas that took place.
Luanda, October 22, 2001
-64 -



Table I - Relevant data by Province
PROVINCE         Population     Number of       Number of      Total Cost of
(estimated)    Sub-Projects   Beneficiaries   Sub-Projects
['000]                        ['000]           ['000]
Cabinda              400             74            110            2,805
Kwanza Sul          1,160            67            115             2,159
Benguela            2,000           126            120             2,868
Namibe               380            142            110             3,243
Huila               2,000            89            243             2,442
Kunene                570            48            128             1,771
Luanda              3,500            82             96             2,144
Bengo                450             33             25             1,176
Huanbo              1,000            26             68              335
TOTAL              11,460           687           1,012           18,941
Table 2 - Project Data by Type of Activity: sub-projects, beneficiaries and costs
Sub-                                          Beneficiaries  Costs
proj ects                                          .
SECTOR    199511996  1997   1998   1999   2000   Total
_  ~~      _    __                                       US$ M
Education   6    33    49     59    33     52     232      168,600     10.5
Health      3    16    16     9      9     13      66      250,400      2.6
Water       6    12    54    108    84     64     338      362,500      4.5
Supply and
Sanitation
Productive   1   9     9      11     3      5      38      54,900       0.8
Economic          1    3             2      3       9      165,700      0.2
IGA                                  4     10      14       9,900       0.2
Total       16  71    131    187    135    147    687     1,012,100    18.9
Tabela 3 - Componente GMCVPA - Indicadores de Impacto
Perfis de pobreza realizados ou em curso ate a data de 30 de Junho de    3
2001
Numero de estudos implementados pelo GMCVP                               17
Niumero de estudos feitos pelo Programa de Estudo                        5
Nuimero de estudos solicitados por outras institui,ces ou ministerios    12
Numero de pessoal do GMCVP que participou em ac,6es de fonna,co          3
Nuimero de consultores locais (do INE) que receberam forma,ao            10
Nuimero de dias de assistencia tecnica para treino                       15
- 65 -






IBRD 24288
, 4DEF11                         \   / KENYA
J-RWANDA
U BRUNDI7
.orl~~~|:| .tg~~       TANZANIA
'- "~~~ q 1*,   \   >  MAMAALNGVLI
ANGOAANGOLA
- . '   ZAMBIA  a          0    SELECTED TOWNS   4    AIRPORTS
G    PROVINCE CAPITALS  4  PORTS
NAMIBIA       <       i,   . .           (@   NATIONAL CAPITAL     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
CONGO                        MAIN ROADS            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
CONGO
. .                                              I 
t,                                             T       I      1      i,1,.1 e..r!   -
ZAIRE  +         ,1GE
-: -- _.~'   UIGE       \       
LUNDA
C~r~~~ ' ~ (UAINZA      l       NORTE
LUANDA  +  PJORFE ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    UNA ULI 
LsJANDA   tioRrcC ;  MALANJE                                          ;-. r;
LUANDA +--                             i' .   ,
~_ + n        -+' t-      -
.      --------
T     ALAr ITfI ENNGO                                              +
,,   CUANZA  ' .                ' '   '                              E
p~~~~~~~U                                    L UNDA SUt :L.tct]
N GrUNZA 
j     ,  BIE               LUtlJE
HUAMBO j,o 
OENUIFLH;'ed CEC 
S ENG UELA      ,- 
,-BE        -           -     _ +Nt.,,                                             ZAMBIA
H FUILA                            :r'.r,
-~~- :, --- | . ~~~~~~CUANDO
NAAmBE                        CUNENE              .      CUBANGO :,
r:       NAMI BIA       <-
APRIL 1993



