Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14822-ANG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 28, 1995
Human Resources Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit -- New Kwanza (Nkz) until 1995
Kwanza Reajustado (KzR) from July 1995 (IKzR = 1000 Nkz)
Official        Parallel
1990       US$1    =           30             700
1991       US$1    =          100             955
1992       US$1    =          574            5875
1993       US$1              6709          104625
1994       US$1    =       500000               na
Aug 1995     US$1    =         6500               na
FISCAL YEARS
IDA Fiscal Year = July I - June 30
Government Fiscal Year = January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CS             Community Survey
FAS            F-undo deApoo Social (Social Action Fund)
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
GMCVP          Gabinete de Monitorizacdo das Condiq5es de Vida da Populacdo
GNP            Gross National Product
IAPSO          Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IDF            Institutional Development Fund
IEC            Information Education Communication
INE           Instituto ANacional de Estatistica
IPCVD          Priority Survey on Living Conditions
LCMS           Living Conditions Monitoring Survey
MIS            Management Information System
MPLA          A-lovimento Popular pela Libera,do de Angola
NBO            National Board of Overseers of the FAS
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NCU            National Coordination Unit of the FAS
NGO           Non-governmental Organization
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Facility (Japanese Grant)
PMU           Poverty Monitoring Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SA             Special Account
SAP            Social Action Project
SCILC          Sub-committee for Information on Living Conditions
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SSA            Sub-Saharan Africa
TRC            Technical Review Committee
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
UNITA          Unido 1VaVional pela Independencia Total de Angola
WHO            World Health Organization



- ii -
ANGOLA
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Government of Angola
Guarantor:                 Not applicable.
Implementing Agencies:     Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS); and
Gabinete de Monitorizagdo das Condi9des de Vida da Populaado
(GMCVP)
Beneficiaries:             Communities and local associations
Poverty Category:          Program of Targeted Interventions
Credit Amount:             SDR 16.1 million (US$24 million equivalent)
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:            0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending terms:           Not applicable.
Financing Plan:             See para. 3.3
Economic Rate of Return:    Not applicable.
Project ID:                61






- 111 -
ANGOLA
SOCIAL ACTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
1. COUNTRY BACKGROUND ...........................................................1
A. Social Sectors and  Services ............................................................2
B. Lessons Leamed ............................................................6
2. THE PROPOSED PROJECT ............................................................9
A. Objectives and  Summary Description ............................................................9
B. Social Action  Fund  Component ............................................................11
C. Poverty  Monitoring  Component ...........................................................                                                          17
D. Status of Project Preparation ...........................................................                                                           22
E. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                                          23
F. Special Project Issues ...........................................................                                                                  24
G. Evaluation, Reviews and  Reporting ...........................................................                                                      24
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT .................. 27
A .   C o sts ...........................................................                                                                              27
B. Financing ...........................................................                                                                               28
C. Procurement ...........................................................                                                                             29
D. Disbursements ...........................................................                                                                           32
E. Accounts and Audits ...........................................................                                                                     34
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ..........................................................                                                               35
A. Project Benefits  .......................................................... 35
B. Project Risks ..........................................................                                                                            36
5. AGREEMENTS  AND   RECOMMENDATIONS                                                      .......................................................... 38
A .  C onditions   ..........................................................                                                                          38
B. Agreements ..........................................................                                                                               38
C. Recommendation ............                                                                                                                          39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal and a post-appraisal mission which visited Angola in January-February 1995
and June-July 1995. The missions included Ms. Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo (rask- Manager, AF1HR), Ms. Amolo Ngweno
(Economist, AF3HR), Mr. Peter Ngomba (Education Economist, AF1HR), Mr. Gabriel Siri (Consultant) Ms. Ghislaine Delaine
(Demographer, AFTHR) and Ms. Sara Gonzalez Flavell (LEGAF). The lead adviser was Ms. Lynne Sherbume-Benz (PSP). The
peer reviewers were Mr. Nat Colletta (AFTHR), Mr. Steen Jorgensen (AFRVP) and Mr. Aubrey Williams (PSP). Mmes. Natalie
Ford and Gertrude Ssali provided logistical support in preparation of the report. Ms. Katherine Marshall is the Department
Director, Mr. Roger Grawe is the Division Chief and Ms. Judith Edstrom is the Operations Advisor for the Department.



- iv-
Tables
Table 3.1: Project Costs. (in US$ million) .......................................................                                                             27
Table 3.2: Financing Plan. (in US$ million) .......................................................                                                            28
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements. (in US$ million) .......................................................     30
Table 3.4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit. (in US$ million) ................................... 32
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit. (in US$ million) ......................................... 33
Figures
Figure 1: Share of Social Sector Ministries' Spending in the National Budget ............................. 3
Annexes
Annex A: Social Action Fund Project Cycle .......................................................                                                              40
Annex B: Documents on the Project File .......................................................                                                                 41
Annex C: FAS Expansion Strategy Document .......................................................                                                               42
Annex D: FAS Administrative Structure .......................................................                                                                  45
Annex E: Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects .......................................................                                                          49
Annex F: INE and GMCVP Organizational Structures .......................................................                                                         50
Annex G: Poverty Monitoring Component Budget .......................................................                                                            52
Annex H: Project Performance and Impact Indicators .......................................................                                                       53
Annex I: Supervision Schedule .......................................................                                                                           56
Annex J: Reporting Requirements .......................................................                                                                         57
Annex K: (Draft) Terms of Reference Beneficiary Assessment FAS ........................................... 59
Annex L: Annual Financial, Technical and Impact Evaluations ................................................... 62
Annex M: GMCVP's Personnel Terms of Reference .......................................................                                                            63
Annex N: Training Program .......................................................                                                                              65
Annex 0: Economic and Financial Analysis .......................................................                                                                67
MAP:  IBRD No. 24288



1. COUNTRY BACKGROUND
1.1    Angola is an undeveloped but potentially wealthy country in Southem Africa. Yet despite
vast resources of oil, diamonds, rivers, coast and arable land, in 1994 the country's GDP was
estimated at US$420 per capita. The Angolan population, 10.9 million' in 1993, has suffered from
three consecutive decades of warfare. The war for independence from 1961 to 1974 provoked the
abrupt exodus of 300,000 Portuguese in 1974 draining the country of virtually all skills and
professions. The first civil war period was from 1976 to 1991, the second from 1992. The peace
process, now underway, was initiated with the signing of the Lusaka Peace Accords, in November
1994. There is cautious optimism that peace will continue to hold. On August 11, 1995, the
UNITA leader, Mr. Savimbi, accepted the Government's invitation to become one of the country's
tWo vice-presidents. On the military front, demobilization is to proceed in three phases: (a)
quartering of UNITA troops; (b) integration into a unified army; and (c) demobilization and
reintegration. Donor financing is sought for the demobilization process, which the UN estimates to
last 24 months and to cost US$103 million.
1.2   In the interim, social and economic infrastructure has deteriorated or been destroyed..
Despite massive emergency relief operations by Government and donor agencies, malnutrition and
food insecurity are chronic. The economic impact of the war is reflected in the GDP's decline of
23 percent in real terms from 1992 to 1993. The oil sector, responsible for 87.6 percent of
Government revenues, was unable to maintain previous production levels because facilities had
been destroyed. As the population fled rural areas, subsistence agriculture collapsed and markets
ceased to function. Lack of monetary constraint and fiscal contraction allowed annual inflation to
reach 1838 percent in 1993. The balance of payments deteriorated by 32 percent between 1991
and 1992: in 1993 the budget deficit stood at about 23 percent of GDP.
1.3    Per capita GNP2 for 1994 was estimated at US$250. Income distribution in Angola is
extremely skewed: a small group possess specialized but scarce skills: well-placed people in the oil
and military sectors enjoy high living standards. At the same time, well over half the Angolan
population falls below the poverty line (defined as the ability to buy a basic food basket or having
an income below one-third of the mean).3 Many of those working in the informal sector are women
who are constantly on the brink of disaster.
1.4    Population growth of 2.8 percent annually conceals the wide disparity between the
country's rapid urban growth rate (7.5 percent annually from 1980-89) and slower growth in rural
areas (0.3 percent for the same period). The urban population was estimated to be 42 percent of
the total population in 1993. It is likely that this percentage continued to grow during 1994.
Luanda alone is reported to hold one-fourth of the total population. The united nations estimates
that over 2 million people are now returming to the country (former refugees), or moving to cities in
search of work. They face unemployment, overcrowded living conditions, fragmented social
I   Angola, Perfil Estatistico Economico e Social (1989-1993) Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (INE), March
1995.
2   GNP is lower than GDP because foreign transfers in Angola are negative.
3   The Luanda Household Survey in 1991 found 64 percent of the population living under the poverty line; a
1993 study by Fernando Ribeiro prepared for the Poverty Workshop, estimated 86 percent under the poverty
line.



- 2 -
networks, and poor access to services which, even when available, are expensive. Many of the
urban poor live in squatter settlements without security of tenure.
1.5    Poverty in rural areas increases in direct proportion to the population's distance from
markets and major roads. Over 90 percent of the rural population is engaged in subsistence
farming and depends on marketing for cash income. Their livelihood in particular (and the rural
economy in general) would be substantially improved by better access to credit, markets,
information, and basic services (health, education, water, transport and sanitation) -- all severely
constrained at present.
1.6    Between 9 and 20 million land mines need to be cleared before economic and social
activities can be normalized. De-mining activities are being coordinated by the Mine Coordination
Office in UCAH (Coordination Unit for Humanitarian Aid, a UN body). The UN is allocating
US$11 million to cover the costs of establishing an institute, and training and equipping 24 teams
(720 persons) of Angolan "de-miners". Of these funds, $6 million have been allocated for the de-
mining of some 7,000 km of roads by a private South-African company. However, the costs of de-
mining are expected to be substantial and only a small portion is covered by the UN assessed
budget (not yet released).
1.7    Political stabilization and economic and social development are the Government's main
goals. The Government recognizes that the large macroeconomic imbalances, the structural
distortions, the high levels of poverty, and the disruption in basic services pose formidable
obstacles to economic growth and peace consolidation. A comprehensive strategy for medium-term
economic and social development and reform over the next three years is being prepared.
A. Social Sectors and Services
1.8    With the coming of peace, the Government of Angola faces many new challenges.
Although the State has been the sole provider of social services since independence, private health
clinics, pharmacies and schools have opened in the past three years, and churches are slowly
reclaiming their institutions which used to offer a range of social services. Lack of regulation has,
however, led to many unlicensed practices, particularly in pharmaceutical and medical services.
As a first step towards the development of private initiatives in social services, the Government
intends to monitor living conditions and poverty. NGOs and intemational aid agencies, who have
bocome the dominant providers of emergency food aid and medical care, are now being encouraged
to reorient resources towards rehabilitation and development.
1.9    Government expenditures in the social sectors have declined sharply since 1992, as
military expenditures have consumed an ever-increasing share of revenues. Spiraling inflation
rates have so eroded Govemment salaries4 that many civil servants have abandoned their posts or
have resorted to more lucrative activities. Provincial govemments have most of the administrative
authority in the social sectors; the transfers they receive from the central Govermment are
inadequate and provincial govemments have no legal authority to generate tax revenue. Some
revenue from duties and stamp fees is channeled to the social sectors, especially to health services,
but this comes nowhere near the resource level required.
4   High inflation rate (1,838 percent in 1993 and 972 percent in 1994) and highly fluctuating multiple exchange
rates make analysis difficult.



- 3 -
Figure 1: Share of Social Sector Ministries' Spending in the National Budget
National Budget Spent on Social Sectors
30%
25%
20%                                               __
Ml Labor & Social Security
15%                                                          OSocial Affairs
* Health
10%                                                          U Education
5%
0%,
1991        1992         1993        1994        1995*   *allocation
Source: Minitry of Finance (buckets 1991-95)
Health
1.10   Decades of war have exacted a heavy toll on the health of the Angolan population. Life
expectancy at birth is among the lowest in Africa at 45 years. The high total fertility rate,
estimated at 6.5 in 1990, contributes to poor matemal and child health care.5 In 1993, under-five
mortality was estimated to be 320 per thousand and infant mortality: 195 per thousand live births.
In the same year, the matemal mortality rate in Luanda hospitals was estimated at 900 per 100,000
live births, up from 800 per 100,000 in 1989. Measles, diarrhea and malaria -- all preventable and
treatable -- are the leading causes of morbidity and mortality. Tuberculosis is a resurgent problem,
exacerbated by AIDS.
1.11   Many health facilities, especially in rural areas, were destroyed by the war. Despite the
scarcity of medicine and the dilapidated infrastructure, public facilities remain the principal source
of health care for most people. Most facilities were built in the 1960s and 1970s, and need
replacement or substantial renovation. Govenmment budget allocations to the health sector declined
from 4.4 percent in 1994 to 2.8 percent in 1995. The share allocated to primary health care is
neligible (less than US$0.01 per capita). Instead, limited public resources tend to favor health
care in tertiary hospitals. This has not been sufficient to retain health professionals; between 1991
and 1993 the number of Angolan doctors in the public sector decreased from 662 to 630; the
number of nurses decreased from 9,145 to 5,780 (39 percent). Some doctors may have moved to
private sector practice. Some nurses may have left the profession or moved to the private sector.
Cost-recovery schemes do not yet exist, although a health law approved in April 1992 opens the
Angola, Perfil Estatistico Economico e Social (1989-1993) Instituto Nacional de Estatistica (INE), March
1995.



-4 -
door for private sector participation and permits the introduction of user charges for health
services.
Education
1.12   Literacy rates are 50 percent for men and 30 percent for women. This represents a
significant improvement since independence, when only 12 percent of the population was
considered literate. In recent years, as both students and teachers fled rural areas, the primary
school net enrollment rate has dropped to 50 percent.6 Secondary school education is underfunded
and the enrollment rate is calculated to be 12 percent.
1.13   Many schools (especially in rural areas) were closed or destroyed by the war; the
remaining few are severely overcrowded (in Luanda classroom size averages 140 students) and
many schools are forced to operate on a three-shift system to accommodate the overflow of
students. The quality of both urban and rural primary education suffers from deteriorating
facilities, where poorly-trained teachers are often demoralized by the lack of equipment and books.
1.14   The national budget allocation for education was slashed from 18 percent in 1991 to 6
percent in 1994. Efforts have been made to mobilize altemative sources for sector-specific training
(for example, a petroleum tax for training in the petroleum sector), but in general, there is neither a
policy framework to promote private financing, nor cost recovery for either general or technical
education.
Water and Sanitation
1.15   Only 30 percent of the population, primarily in urban areas, has access to safe water, and
even this access is sporadic. Water supply in Luanda is subject to frequent interruptions and fecal
contamination. Since many urban settlements are unplanned, the local authorities are unable to
provide essential services. The increasing volume of garbage dumped in residential areas and
inadequate sanitation and waste disposal facilities in urban areas are leading to increasing
outbreaks of disease and pollution. The incidence of water-borne diseases, including cholera in
recent years, is high in rural areas where the destruction of water pumps and wells during the war
virtually ended the supply of safe water. This has particularly affected women and children, who
must walk long distances to fetch water for daily needs. The services offered at health facilities
and schools are limited by inadequate water and sanitation facilities.
Household Food Security
1.16   During the long civil war Angolans endured many years of food shortages, acute
malnutrition, micronutrient deficiencies and even starvation.7 Food insecurity affects 70 percent of
the population who have been intemally displaced, are returning from exile, or are among the
millions of urban and rural poor.
6   Educa,io em Angola, Ministry of Education, TLuanda, May 1993; Net enrollment rate is defined as the official
primary school age pupils as a percentage of the official school age population.
7   World Food Program, UNICEF and NGOs missions have documented severe malnutrition and starvation in
cities besieged by UNITA. A Bank mission reported the same findings from Malange in November 1993.



1.17   Poverty and food availability are directly correlated to the economic infrastructure and to
the accessibility of and distance to markets and urban centers. In war-tom Angola, markets have
been destroyed, storage facilities are in short supply, and access to both is complicated by poor
road conditions.8 Food availability is limited seasonally, especially when the roads become
impassable because of heavy rains. Local authorities have not been able to maintain rural roads
because of lack of security, operating funds and equipment. In urban areas, road conditions make
public transport scarce or expensive, further constraining economic activity.
1.18   The capacity for local food production has been devastated, and output has steadily
declined, from 100 kg/capita of grain-equivalent in 1980 to an estimated 67 kg/capita in September
1993. This is an average of less than 600 calories per person per day, compared to the 2,100
calories required for the average adult. Large areas of fertile land lie fallow because of uncleared
land mines. Crop yields could be substantially increased through the use of fertilizer and
pesticides, rehabilitation and construction of irrigation channels and de-mining. Most of Angola's
large agro-industrial processing plants are closed or destroyed, forcing the population to depend on
imported, processed food. Each provincial govemor may have a lump-surn budget to import food
to be distributed to social institutions, including cafeterias, orphanages, schools, and hospitals, but
budgets are tragically insufficient. Private traders no longer have the foreign currency to import
food, and the private sector is struggling to reactivate food supply, processing and distribution.
Country Assistance Strategy and Past Involvement
1.19   Angola joined the World Bank Group in 1989. In 1991, the Bank responded promptly to
the first peace process and to the Govemment's initial reform efforts by stepping-up lending to help
strengthen institutional capacity and rebuild human and physical capital. Eight IDA credits to
Angola in FY91-93 totaled about US$245 million. This IDA assistance program emphasized
capacity building and preparation work for high-priority rehabilitation of physical and social
infrastructure. The implementation of the Angola portfolio has been affected by the war, which
broke out shortly after most such projects had been approved. This has required restructuring of
some projects covering geographic areas which are not currently accessible. In some cases the
result has been project designs which no longer correspond to changed post-war priorities.
1.20   The Bank assistance strategy in FY95 reflected a "low-case" scenario, with a minimum
core lending program focusing on poverty alleviation, capacity building, and human resource
development. The peace process, initiated in November 1994, appears to be gaining momentum as
a result of the May and August 1995 meetings between President dos Santos and Mr. Savimbi.
The economic reform process resumed in June 1995 with the virtual reunification of the official
and parallel exchange rates and the 200-fold increase of oil product prices; it is now gaining speed
and suggests strong commitment to comprehensive reforms. The recent Country Portfolio
Performance Review (13-14 June, 1995) was a success. The Government manifested strong
commitment to improve portfolio performance and prepared an Action Plan to achieve that
objective. The Government's commitment and the cessation of hostilities are expected to lead to
speedier implementation and greater focus on the policy reform aspects of operations.
1.21   Angola needs support in its triple transition from war to peace, from a centrally planned
economy to a market-based economy, and from authoritarian to accountable governance. IDA's
assistance strategy focuses on facilitating the transition to a peacetime economy by helping to
rehabilitate devastated economic and social infrastructure, by supporting the process of economic
8   Land mines planted in dirt roads and around villages are another legacy of the wars.



- 6 -
transition, by helping design and implement the macroeconomic and sector policies needed to
stabilize the economy and provide production incentives, and by building capacity in economic
management. A Social Action Fund would complement these efforts by encouraging capacity-
building at the community level. A Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) is currently being
developed.
B. Lessons Learned
The Angola Social Action Fund (FAS): Lessons From the Pilot Experience
1.22   An IDA Project Preparation Facility advance (PPF) of US$2 million for the creation of a
social fund to be executed by the Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS), was approved in 1993. The
Angolan Government created the FAS, in October 1994, as an autonomous, decentralized agency
to channel funds to communities. Administratively the FAS is headed by the National Board of
Overseers (NBO) which sets policy. The National Coordination Unit (NCU), the central body,
gives technical support, coordinates and supervises the activities of provincial offices, and manages
the flow of funds between the Government and the provincial level. The provincial offices identify,
approve and disburse the funds and supervise the community-based projects. The provincial
offices are in close contact with the Provincial Board of Overseers. Currently the fund is fully
established in four provincial offices: Benguela, Kwanza Sul, Namibe and Cabinda.
1.23   To date, 87 sub-projects have been approved, totaling US$1,656,000 equivalent. Eight
sub-projects have been finalized and 31 are currently being executed. Disbursement for sub-
project implementation totals about US$400,000 equivalent, averaging US$30,000 per month per
province. Approximately 120 additional sub-projects are in the preparation pipeline. Thus far,
these are largely for schools, health posts and water supply (including water supply for cattle).
1.24   The pilot experience has permitted testing and improvement of procuremnent and
disbursement procedures; for example, simplified statements of expenditures (SOE) have been used
since May, 1995. It has also provided indications of expected rates of sub-project implementation
and FAS expansion to other provinces. During the pilot, the FAS has established transparent
management systems and systems for sub-project identification, approval and supervision, as well
as a computerized monitoring system at the provincial level to keep the NCU (and donors)
informed on sub-project status.
1.25   The Social Fund was established first in the province of Kwanza Sul, which has a
population of about 1 million people. It is an agricultural province which produces a significant
surplus of food crops, as well as coffee and cotton. At the time that the FAS office was
established, Kwanza Sul was divided by the war: the coastal areas were under the control of the
Government. During the pilot period, the war ended and the inland areas, which had suffered
substantial physical damage, became accessible to the FAS.
1.26  Initial community response to FAS in Kwanza Sul was very poor. Evaluation of the
situation revealed the need to:
(a) work with partners involved in community development activities, in particular NGOs
and churches;
(b) include in the FAS team personnel with the experience needed to design a social
communication program; and,



- 7 -
(c) initiate information and social communication activities, even before opening a new
provincial office.
1.27   At the early stages sub-project implementation was slow. The situation was evaluated and
it was decided to:
(a) assist communities to find technical solutions to their problems and work with NGOs
to resolve implementation and management problems;
(b) appraise projects carefully and withhold approval until all criteria are met;
(c) seek back-up from the NCU when situations pass the competencies of the Provincial
Offices;
(d) analyze issues as soon as these arise and make decisions quickly;
(e) share experience between provinces;
(f) establish a routine for sub-project identification, approval and supervision so that
decisions on project approvals can be taken quickly; and,
(g) work closely with the Provincial Board of Overseers to establish the work program,
especially where cooperation from government agencies or NGOs is needed.
1.28   The first months of decentralization showed lack of up-to-date information on sub-project
implementation at the NCU and at donor level. Accordingly it was decided to:
(a) set-up a Management and Monitoring Information System to provide weekly updates
from the provinces to the NCU on a short computerized form; and
(b) design a monthly summary of these reports, including an analysis of the situation,
problem identification and actions taken (this monthly report is sent to IDA).
1.29   Most of the provinces faced problems such as shortage of construction materials, and the
virtual absence of a banking system. The FAS has leamed to overcome these problems through:
(a) working out creative banking solutions (including an IOU system with local
wholesalers);
(b) regular information-sharing on the availability of materials and the initiation of works
from the provinces to Luanda and vice versa (and between provinces); and,
(c) exploring altematives to traditional suppliers for scarce materials.
1.30   Technical evaluation of the first finished sub-projects suggest a low technical capacity to
analyze architectural designs and to deal with procurement issues within the FAS provincial teams.
As a result the FAS:
(a) now includes one technical staff member with an engineering or architecture
background in all provincial teams,
(b) provides twice a year training in procurement and disbursement procedures and related
issues during the life of the project;
(c) operates a supervision schedule by which the specialist in procurement and
architecture at the NCU visits the provinces; and,
(d) ensures that provincial teams now discuss with communities ways to improve the
quality of the proposals.



-8 -
General Lessons Learned
1.31   Several lessons9 have emerged from social funds in other countries. These have influenced
the conceptual framework, design and implementation arrangements of the Angola FAS. During
the preparation of the Project, the FAS team visited the Salvador and Bolivia Social Funds and
later adapted some concepts to the Angolan context. Both visits were especially valuable because
the team leamed about potential pitfalls at first hand. Peer reviewers within the Bank included
staff with in-depth knowledge of Social Funds and poverty issues, inside and outside the region,
1.32   Some principal lessons leamed which influenced the FAS design and operation include:
(a)    the importance of administrative autonomy to avoid political interference,
especially in a country undergoing transition;
(b)    the importance of having few, realistic and measurable objectives;
(c)    the desirability of financing small, technologically simple projects with substantial
community involvement;
(d)    the need for transparency;
(e)    the need to attract the best possible staff;
(f)    the desirability of simplifying procurement and disbursement procedures to make
sub-project implementation efficient and encourage the participation of small local
contractors;
(g)    the importance of strong supervision of the communities by the social fund during
sub-project execution; and,
(h)    the importance of regular supervision of the social fund administration by
Government and Donors.
9   This section draws heavily upon the FAS pilot experience, and on "Social Action Programs and Social Funds,
A Review of Design and Implementation in Sub-Saharan Africa," World Bank discussion paper No. 274, and
"Social Funds: Strengths, Weaknesses and Conditions for Success" by LS. Khadiagala, ESP Discussion Paper
52.



- 9 -
2. THIE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
2.1    The Social Action Project (SAP) aims to assist Angola in its transition from war to peace,
targeting in particular the people impoverished by the military and economic crises.
2.2    Objectives. The objectives of the Project are to:
(a) improve access to basic services through the provision or rehabilitation of community
infrastructure;
(b) improve the capacity of communities and NGOs to plan, appraise, manage and
maintain investment activities, through experience gained in the Project;
(c) generate additional income and employment in rural and urban areas through revenue-
generating sub-projects; and,
(d) enhance the capacity of Angolan institutions to collect and analyze poverty-related
data;
(e) provide a better understanding of the main causes of poverty in order to help formulate
effective poverty alleviation strategies and generate adequate policies for
socioeconomic development.
2.3   Summary of Project Description. To achieve these objectives the SAP will finance over a
four-year period, operational costs, infrastructure rehabilitation and construction, equipment and
vehicles, training activities, surveys and studies, for the following two components:
(a)    A Social Action Fund component executed by the Fundo de Apoio Social (fAS)
(93 .5 percent of total project costs) which will finance sub-projects identified,
prepared and implemented by local communities. These sub-projects will be
appraised and supervised by the FAS;
(b)    A Poverty Monitoring component executed by the Gabinete de Monitorizaao da
Condices de Vida da Populacao (GMCVP Office for Monitoring Living
Conditions of the Population) of the National Statistics Institute (INE) (6.5
percent of total project cost). This component will finance policy-relevant research
on poverty and social issues, and systematic poverty monitoring through
household surveys.
2.4   Project Rationale. The greatest challenge facing the Government of Angola at present is
to restore social confidence and promote the resumption of economic growth, with a sharp focus on
poverty alleviation and job creation. A critical element in this program will be the provision of
basic social and economic infrastructure throughout the country.
2.5    The Govenment has articulated a National Community Reconstruction Program aimed at
restoring social services and security in peri-urban and rural areas. This project was presented at



- 10-
the Round Table in Brussels as one component of the National Program. Recognizing that
addressing community needs was fundamental for the country's reconstruction and stability, even
before the peace treaty was signed, Govenmment requested IDA's assistance to set up a project to
support community-based rehabilitation of basic social, productive and economic infrastructure.
Several alternatives were considered for the program. The Government realizes that although the
existing structure is well-suited for serving the needs of the central urban areas, it may not be
adequate to serve outlying urban or rural areas, and it may not incorporate community input to the
extent necessary. One model considered was the semi-public procurement agency (known as
Agence d 'Execution des Travaux d 'Interet Public or AGETIP in several African countries) where
the focus is on ensuring the access of small contractors to the public investments. Currently this is
not feasible in Angola as the contracting industry is in its infancy and is not geared towards labor-
intensive implementation. This approach is difficult to reconcile with a full demand-driven
approach needed to ensure the full participation of communities in identification and
implementation of sub-projects.
2.6    The remaining option is the social investment fund model which has been successfully
applied in several African and Latin American countries (including Zambia, Bolivia, Ethiopia and
Honduras). Restoring self-confidence in communities and building community feeling is very
important in Angola where the social fabric has been damaged by years of conflict. Social
investment funds have proved to be both successful in encouraging commnunity participation and
sufficiently flexible to meet community demand's at lower costs than Govenmment provision would
entail. During the pilot phase, the average investment costs per square meter to rehabilitate
primary schools was estimated at US$80; the cost to rehabilitate a primary school by the
Government would average US$358 per square meter (see Annex 0).
2.7    On the basis of these considerations, Government decided to create a social fund. The
Government proposed that 93.5 percent of the proceeds of the Credit be channeled through an
autonomous decentralized agency, the FAS, under the Ministry of Planning. During its pilot
phase, the FAS has proved its ability to react quickly and effectively to medt community demands.
Being part of the local community, staff at the provincial level are readily accountable to the
community and are immediately familiar with the most vulnerable and poor areas in their
provinces.
2.8    Because poverty alleviation and human resource development are the most critical areas to
be monitored, a second small component of the Project will begin to re-establish basic statistical
capacity. Because of decades of war, Angola has virtually no capacity to conduct household and
other national surveys and so cannot monitor changes in the extent and nature of poverty.
2.9    The current Project responds to Government's request for support by offering a
streamlined and flexible approach to community needs for micro projects providing economic and
social infrastructure, support for directly productive investment, and a Poverty Monitoring
component that will strengthen the country's capacity to identify the needs of the population. The
project is consistent with the Government's own development objectives and reflects the priorities
of IDA's country assistance objectives, namely, poverty alleviation and human resource
development.



- Il -
B. Social Action Fund Component
Creation and Strategy
2.10   The Angolan Govemment created the FAS10, by Decree No. 44/94 of October 5, 1994,
and Executive Decree No. 2/94 of December 30, 1994, as an autonomous structure in order to
have flexible funding, procurement and disbursement procedures and to avoid political interference.
At negotiafions, agreement was reached with Government to establish a Subsidiary Grant
Agreement between Govemment and the FAS, acceptable to IDA, which will govern the granting
of the proceeds of IDA Credit to the FAS. The execution of this agreement is a condition for the
effectiveness of the Credit.
2.11   The FAS operates as a decentralized financial intermediary, funneling funds provided by
Government and by external donors towards projects identified by the local population in low-
income areas (sub-projects). It is designed to offer support for private sector development
(especially in labor-intensive public works) and provide temporary employment to rural and peri-
urban communities, with the goal of reducing poverty and reintegrating destitute groups into the
economy. Nucleos comunitarios" can apply for funds directly and sponsor2 themselves, or be
represented by an agencia de enquadramento'3, that acts as sponsor. Sub-projects should address
the most critical needs of the majority of the community, whose interest is demonstrated by a 10-
20% financial commitment. This commitment must be verified at a community meeting. The local
authority's plans to cover maintenance and recurrent costs are integral parts of each sub-project
proposal.
2.12   The FAS focuses its interventions in established communities. Internally displaced
persons and refugees are not targeted specifically by the FAS; however, if they live within a stable
community, they will benefit from FAS-financed activities. Other organizations such as UNHCR,
UCA, and several NGOs target those specific groups.
2.13   The FAS is currently active in four provinces out of 18. In line with expansion strategy
(Annex C), FAS expects to broaden its field of activities at a rate of 2 to 3 new provinces every six
months until it covers the whole country. Expansion to a new province will wait until activities in
a province in which the FAS is already active, are consolidated. Activities in a province will be
considered "consolidated" when the ratio of staff salaries to disbursement for sub-projects is equal
to or less than 1:10 over two consecutive months. During negotiations, it was agreed that FAS
would apply the criteria for expansion of activities to additional provinces according to those
specified in the FAS Administrative and Procedures Manuals. Compliance with the strategy and
criteria for expansion will be examined during the semi-annual reviews.
0  More information about the FAS can be found in annex D, which presents a translation of promotional
materials developed by the FAS. The Procedures Manual and the Administrative Manual of the FAS,
(including the FAS statutes of incorporation), are available in the project file.
I   nucleo comunitcirio (community group): group of persons living in a community and representing the ideas and
interest of a large group within that community.
12  Sponsor: nucleos comunitario andagincias de enquadramento can act as sub-project sponsors, that is, they can
become responsible for identifying, presenting and implementing a FAS-financed sub-project.
3  Agencia de enquadramento: differs from the nucleo comunitario in that these are formally constituted, have
some regular source of funding, and generally have a greater organizational capacity (such as churches and
NGOs).



- 12-
2.14   The following types of activities can be financed though the FAS:
(a)    Social infrastructure, such as repair or construction of primary and secondary
schools, pnrmary health care facilities, water supply and sanitation works;
(b)    Productive infrastructure, such as repair or construction of markets, storage
facilities and conservation plants for agriculture, livestock or fisheries, and
irrigation canals;
(c)    Economic infrastructure, such as repair of small roads and bridges. For sub-
projects that entail the rehabilitation or construction of infrastructure, technically
justified, labor-intensive procedures are used to encourage the generation of paid
employment; and
(d)    Revenue-generating sub-projects for community-based groups, particularly those
representing women, ranging from handicrafts (ceramics, tailoring, emnbroidery
and food processing) to agricultural production. These are only eligible for
financing through an agencia de enquadramento.
For the implementation of sub-projects, the IDA Credit through the FAS, will finance civil works
contracts, construction materials and goods (including the initial investment in supplies for schools
and health facilities, such as furniture and medical supplies, as well as capital equipment for small
enterprise development such as, boat motors and nets). Occasionally, technical advisory services
will be financed to help the communities prepare projects (for example, roads). These services are
not to exceed 10 percent of the sub-project costs, as specified in the FAS Manuals.
Areas of Intervention
2.15   Sub-projects that involve social infrastructure are geared towards the re-establishment of
social services in Angola. Most of FAS's basic social services funding is being allocated for
health and education-related activities, mainly for rehabilitation of infrastructure, sanitation, and
water supply. The communities are responsible for maintaining the facilities. Criteria for sub-
project selection are specified in the FAS Manuals (see details in Annex E.)
2.16   Within the health sector, the FAS funds the construction, rehabilitation, extension and
equipment of both rural and urban first-level health facilities. This will often include staff housing,
especially in remote areas. Within the education sector, the construction, rehabilitation and
extension of primary schools is a priority. The FAS is also funding the initial supply of teaching
materials and essential drugs. All social sector facilities receiving assistance from the FAS include
a water and sanitation component if required.
2.17   Investments to improve water supply include the rehabilitation and expansion of water
supply systems where the technology applied is simple, appropriate and cost-effective to maintain.
In rural areas, simple hand-dug wells (with windlasses and buckets), or bore-holes (where the
water table is very deep) may be funded. For such sub-projects FAS encourages communities to
establish a maintenance committee with a cost-sharing function. Local authorities are becoming
more aware of water and sanitation issues through district workshops organized by the FAS.



- 13 -
2.18   Given the importance of productive infrastructure in helping to alleviate poverty, the FAS
encourages the construction or rehabilitation of markets and storage facilities that improve
conditions for agricultural production and household food security.
2.19   The FAS finances improvement and rehabilitation of community-based economic
infrastructure, such as the rehabilitation or the reconstruction of earth-surfaced rural roads and
small bridges. In urban areas, community priorities are mostly pen'-urban road rehabilitation,
market construction, and waste disposal. In appraising such interventions, the Project seeks the
guidance and involvement of appropriate expertise from local government and other agencies.
2.20   The revenue-generating sub-projects will be implemented through agencias de
enquadramento, who will act as management advisors and provide trainring in financial and
business management. This is especially important in Angola where there is little experience with
this type of project. Funding will be done through grants to community groups implementing
projects rather than to individuals. However, in order to explore possibilities within the Angola
context, soon after Credit effectiveness, the FAS will organize a seminar to discuss issues related
to these types of sub-project, and to determine a strategy for action. The seminar will assess the
feasibility of sub-projects proposed by communities to date. One outcome of the seminar will be
criteria to identify, appraise, and implement these projects. Seminar participants will include
representatives from communities, NGOs, commercial banks, IDA, UN agencies and consultants.
2.21   The areas of emphasis within FAS's overall portfolio are likely to change over the lifetime
of the Project. More social infrastructure sub-projects are likely be implemented in the first years;
the number of other types of sub-projects are likely to increase later.
FAS Management
2.22   The National Board of Overseers (NBO) or Comite de Coordena,do Nacional, is the
governing body of the FAS. Membership includes representatives of Government (6 seats), NGOs
(2), churches (2) and private sector organizations, (such as the Chamber of Commerce) (2). This
Board defines FAS policies, monitors all FAS activities and ensures contact with, and
representation of, the wide support base of donors, Government, the NGO community and the
churches.
2.23   The Provincial Board of Overseers (Comite de Coordena,cao Provincial), has primarily
an advisory role, and one of technical support to the Provincial Office. Membership may vary but
usually includes representatives of all of the groups referred to in para 2.2 as well as
representatives of the beneficiaries. Responsibilities include the determination of provincial
strategies and priorities, and advising and supporting the Provincial Office in its activities. The
Board ensures the link between the Provincial Authorities and the FAS and representation of all
stakeholders.
2.24   The National Coordinating Unit (NCU) or Unidade de Coordena,do, proposes priorities,
targeting objectives, strategies and impact evaluations for consideration by the National Board of
Overseers. NCU manages donor relations (and their accounts and disbursements), and day-to-day
interactions with Government. It also guides the establishment of Provincial Offices and provides
support for their operations. The NCU, and in particular the executive director, is responsible for
the overall management of FAS activities, including operating systems to allow the regular
approval and completion of projects in a cost-effective manner. This unit is staffed by an



- 14 -
executive director, a deputy director, an administrator, a civil engineer who deals also with
procurement issues, a computer specialist and support staff.
2.25   Most operational responsibilities lie in the Provincial Offices, where sub-projects are
identified, appraised, approved, monitored and closed. Provincial staff have been selected from
local candidates (already living in the province) who have a broad range of experience and a
commitment to development goals. Every team has at least one person with engineering
qualifications, an assistant accountant, a computer specialist, a social scientist or a communication
specialist. Usually the social scientist or the civil engineer are also directors. During
negotiations, Government agreed to require FAS to engage professional staff at national and
provincial levels, with qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions of employment
acceptable to IDA throughout project implementation. A more detailed description of the roles
and responsibilities of the FAS management structure can be found in Annex D. For the set-up of
the provincial offices, the Credit will finance upgrades and renovations of buildings, and the
procurement of office equipment and furniture.
2.26   The Credit will finance the FAS operating costs including salaries of the FAS staff,
transport, fuel and office supplies. To smooth project implementation, the Credit will also finance:
(i) training for the FAS staff: workshops on procurement and disbursement procedures twice a
year. During project preparation, study trips such as visits to social funds in other countries,
substantially improved the design of the FAS. About two staff months per year have been
budgeted for that purpose in future for new staff; (ii) advisory services: such as accountancy,
auditing and legal counsel; those services have already been contracted; and, (iii) consultants
services to set-up an information, education and communication (IEC) program to inform
communities and stakeholders about FAS and its operating mechanisms.
2.27   Nucleos comunitarios implement the sub-projects. Sponsors (who may be the nucleo
comunitairios themselves) supervise project implementation and keep financial and technical
records. These records must show the degree and form of community participation.
2.28   The FAS uses information-sharing mechanisms as a way to mobilize community
participation. During sub-project implementation, field visits and interviews as well as
consultative meetings, ensure community participation. FAS will use annual beneficiary
assessments to evaluate sub-project performance as well as the appropriateness of FAS response to
the perceived needs of the community.
Sub-project Cycle
2.29   The mechanisms regulating the functioning of the FAS are specified in its Administrative
Manual (Manual de Gestdo). A Procedures Manual (Manual de Procedimentos) describes the
sub-project cycle in detail. It includes separate chapters describing the FAS disbursement and
procurement procedures, and forms. These documents are available in the project file (see Annex
B). These Manuals have been extensively discussed with IDA during project preparation, and
were approved by the National Board of Overseers in July 1995. Updated versions of the FAS
Administrative and Procedures Manuals (Manuais de Gestdo e de Procedimentos) were reviewed
by IDA during negotiations. The documents may be updated, revised and improved as project
implementation proceeds, but it was agreed during negotiations that the Procedures and
Administrative Manuals of the FAS will be at all times satisfactory to IDA, and that these will not
be modified without IDA 's prior agreement.



- 15 -
2.30   Identification. Sub-projects are initially identified by the communities or agencies
representing them14. These communities or agencies then apply to the provincial FAS office for
funds. Sub-project proposals should address the needs of the community and should ultimately
target the poor and vulnerable. Community support is evidenced by contribution to the sub-project
costs (in cash or kind and ascertained by the field appraisal team). The proposal should
demonstrate that the sub-project can be successfully completed within six months, and must use
local materials whenever possible.
2.31   While the FAS may provide technical assistance in project preparation and
implementation, it does not execute projects. However, since the technical capacity of the
communities (or the groups representing them) may be insufficient, the proposal specifies when
technical support from outside the community is needed. In that case, the proposal includes this
assistance in the cost estimates, and the FAS office helps the community to seek local advisory
services and costs them. Standard technical specifications are being drawn up for common social
infrastructure projects such as schools, health posts and staff houses. These will be consistent with
the norms and standards of the sector ministries, and will draw on community participation in
materials and labor. These standard technical specifications can simplify project preparation in
that they: (a) give the community and the sponsors confidence that their project is acceptable on
technical grounds; (b) cut costs of repetitiously engineering each sub-project; (c) allow bid awards
to be made solely on price; (d) facilitate sub-project approval decision; and (e) facilitate monitoring
while ensuring quality.
2.32 Appraisal and ApprovaL Since the FAS strives for a high standard of transparency,
explicit appraisal criteria for sub-projects have been developed (see Annex E). These include
performance of the sponsor in previous sub-projects, evidence of sustainability, and the provision
of recurrent costs.
2.33 The FAS team and the Provincial Board of Overseers screen applications for sub-
projects .5 In projects presented by communities with special characteristics (for example,
nomadic groups), the team may include social sector technical staff. Some projects may be
referred to technical staff for revision and improvement. The NBO and IDA prior review the first
two projects of each new type (for example, school or revenue-generating types).
2.34   Applications considered consistent with the criteria are then appraised in the field by the
FAS provincial director or civil engineer. Field appraisal forms have been developed for every
sector, and include guidelines for both technical appraisal of the proposed sub-project and for
appraisal of community commitment. The community contribution is reviewed in detail and agreed
with the community. The material component of the community contribution should have already
been collected and be evident at field appraisal before a sub-project is confirmed for funding. At
this point, the budget, timetables, procurement arrangements and community involvement are
assessed in detail. When the community is obviously very poor, and is willing but unable to meet
the full community contribution, the appraisal team may recommend a lesser contribution on a
case-by-case basis. A financial agreement is then prepared which includes detailed budgets and a
description of the responsibilities of the various parties involved in the sub-project. In this
agreement, disbursement and procurement schedules are outlined.
14  See also Annex A.
15  Outsiders may be invited to assist in this appraisal. For example, a revaeue-generating project may require
analysis and commentary from someone in the banking sector.



- 16 -
2.35   Field appraisal reports are submitted to the provincial FAS team for consideration.
Approval is needed from the provincial direction for sub-projects up to US$20,000. Sub-projects
over this amount have to be approved by the executive director. Sub-projects exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent in total value (including contributions by other donors, NGOs and agencies)
will have to be approved by IDA and the NBO. During the pilot phase, average project size, and
complexity, increased from US$10,000 in the first months to US$18,000 after 6 months of
operation.
2.36   Implementation. Following the formal approval of a sub-project proposal, a contract with
the community is signed, making the financial agreement legally binding. Funds are deposited by
the NCU in provincial accounts and disbursed directly to providers of materials or to implementing
firms on their presentation of a receipt signed by the authorized representative of the sponsor.
Occasionally, procurement of goods may require national or intemational competitive bidding. In
such cases, the FAS helps the community to prepare the bidding package or, for Intemational
Competitive Bidding, prepares the package for the community.
2.37   Political credibility of the FAS could be undermined if the disbursements for
administrative overheads are out of proportion to the number of sub-projects. The level of FAS
operating expenditures was discussed at negotiations and will be reviewed during implementation
for its appropriateness. As Provincial Offices gain experience, they are tackling larger projects.
Operating costs are being reduced by using more medium-level staff for supervision, and these
costs may be further reduced by increasing the area of supervision each Provincial Office is
responsible for. There are no pre-set limits to the number of sub-projects that can be financed by
the FAS for each province or community.
2.38   Monitoring. Technical and financial monitoring is critical to successful sub-project
implementation. The FAS aims to maintain a high standard of transparency and accountability by
applying explicit and strict criteria for sub-project monitoring. Both physical reports and financial
progress reports containing justifications are submitted by the sponsor. Personnel from the FAS
supervise progress and assist in problem-solving.
2.39   A computerized system of management and performance indicators has been developed to
detail accounting and implementation information on each sub-project. Management indicators,
such as administrative costs per beneficiary, projects per vehicle, and running costs per
disbursement, are also monitored by the FAS. A local firm has been contracted to develop and
operate a reliable and cost effective accounting system, independent of any decisions about sub-
project financing. Reports from the accounting system are used for financial monitoring by FAS,
auditors and IDA.
2.40   The Provincial Offices will submit monthly progress reports, generated by this
computerized system, to the NCU. (In future it may be possible to use a network system for the
entire process.) This reporting system allows the NCU to monitor implementation of sub-projects
and serves as an early waming system. The NCU compiles these reports and submits quarterly
reports to IDA, other donors and members of the NBO.
2.41   The FAS will employ indicators to monitor all the steps of the sub-project cycle, including:
(a)    Inputs: disbursements, number of beneficiaries, number of workshops and desk
appraisal meetings;



- 17 -
(b)    Process: involvement of district staff and communities, elapsed time between
benchmarks (application, desk appraisal, field appraisal, approval, allocations,
completion), speed of completion, technical quality of projects, average sub-
project cost/benefit, disbursements and administrative costs;
(c)    Outputs: number of ongoing projects, number of completed projects per type,
kilometers of road built, numbers of beneficiaries by age and sex, number of
provinces covered; and,
(d)    Sub-projects impact: evaluated through annual beneficiary assessments.
Examples of indicators are based on such results as number of beneficiaries,
impact on employment and incomes and impact on social indicators.
2.42   The draft Terms of Reference for the beneficiary assessments can be found in Annex K.
2.43   Completion. Sub-project completion is determined by the Provincial Office. Sub-projects
are considered complete if the conditions specified in the signed contract by the FAS and the
sponsor are met. For infrastructure sub-projects, this will entail the completion of works according
to the specified technical plans.
2.44   Cancellation. Sub-projects will be closed if the sponsor repeatedly neglects the conditions
set forth in the contract, fails to justify expenses or misuses funds. The sub-project will be closed
by the executive director on the proposal of the provincial director. National and Provincial
Boards of Overseers will be informed of all such closures and their justification. The Provincial
Office can accept the substitution of one sponsor by another as an alternative to closure. All
infractions against the law will be reported by the provincial director to the local authorities.
2.45   Information, Education, and Communication (aEC). The NCU coordinates IEC
activities promoting the FAS. A graphic artist and printing facilities have been contracted to
develop IEC materials on the FAS, and some materials are already being distributed to government
officials, local leaders, and NGOs. Provincial Offices organize community-level meetings and are
working with radio stations to disseminate information on the FAS in local languages. The
ongoing priority survey on living standards and annual impact evaluations will feed into future IEC
activities, particularly to better identify groups in need.
C. Poverty Monitoring Component
2.46   Information relevant to poverty or to the living conditions of the population in Angola is
scarce, scattered and incomplete. Basic socio-economic indicators are difficult to calculate,
making targeting and impact evaluation of poverty alleviation activities almost impossible. Data
collection and analysis are hampered as much by the security situation as by weak in-country
capacity. To direct poverty strategies and to guide the design and implementation of development
efforts, an integrated system for monitoring the living conditions of the population is needed. The
Government is aware of this and in 1993 created, through Ministerial Decree 017/DHR193, an
independent Poverty Monitoring Unit (PMU) within INE. However, the budget allocated does not
permit INE to fulfill this role. Nor do the current INE Statutes allow it to initiate sponsorship
arrangements with universities to strengthen its capacity, or to directly sell its services to
Government or other agencies to pay for operational costs. A draft ministerial decree modifying



- 18-
the INE Statutes is about to be passed by the Council of Ministers. This decree will increase the
role and responsibility of the PMU and will link it directly to decision-making bodies. The unit will
thus become the Gabinete de Monitoriza,co das Condicoes de Vida da Popula,do (GMCVP) (see
organizational charts, Annex F).
2.47   The new Statutes will give the GMCVP the autonomy necessary to: a) directly hire local
and intemational consultants; b) contract assistance from local and foreign institutions; and c) be
hired directly by donors and other financial partners. The reception of a satisfactory legal opinion
stating that the draft ministerial decree modifying the INE Statutes has been approved is a
condition for disbursement of this component. At negotiations, the Government agreed that the
GMCVP will carry out the studies and surveys in accordance with terms of reference and time
tables acceptable to IDA, and will discuss the findings with IDA. When appropriate,
Government will prepare action plans to address issues which emerge from the findings of these
studies and surveys. The GMCVP's mandate is to support the country's capacity to monitor the
living conditions of the population by: (i) carrying out household and community surveys; (ii)
providing funds for other local institutions to carry out specific beneficiary and participatory
assessments, and (iii) maintaining a database on poverty.
2.48   The National Committee for Statistics, is the country's overseeing body for statistics. It
supervises and coordinates NE, other statistical operations and institutions in the country and the
sector's statistical sub-committees. In the coming months the Government will establish by
ministerial decree a Sub-committee for Information on Living Conditions of the Population
(SCILC) to coordinate research on poverty nationwide, support consensus building for defining
strategy and be the Government's consultative body for poverty issues.
Component Objectives
2.49   The Govemment has requested IDA to support, through the poverty monitoring component
of the SAP, its efforts to build the country's capacity to monitor the living conditions of the
population and apply that information for decision-making. Consequently, this component aims to:
(a)   strengthen the capacity of Angolan institutions to analyze data and make it
available in usable form to policymakers, through data dissemination, training and
development;
(b)    assist the effective targeting of poverty reduction interventions by supporting
research and studies focusing on policy-related poverty issues, and on the analysis
of the effects of social and economic policies on the vulnerable;
(c)    support the design and targeting of policies to alleviate poverty and improve the
population's welfare through the dissemination of research findings, and the
provision of training for Government officials and other institutions;
(d)    contribute towards a better knowledge of poverty issues through creating a data
base, disseminating and publishing statistical and other information on poverty,
and organizing workshops; and,
(e)    Provide methodological guidance to sector institutions involved in gathering
information and data on poverty, through providing technical support to the



- 19 -
preparation of survey documents, the processing of information, and the training
of personnel.
Implementation Description
2.50   The Government has proposed that day-to-day implementation of this component be
implemented through the GMCVP which will direct and monitor the following activities:
2.51 Household and Community Surveys. The Expenditure and Income Survey will take
place in 1996. For this survey the Credit will only finance long-term technical assistance and the
technical staff in place at GMCVP. The main objective of this survey is to update the weighting
for the consumer price index. Other objectives will be to produce data on household budgets for
the National Accounts, and to assess national and regional poverty. The survey will cover about
3,000 households over a 12-month period. The same sample of households will be followed each
quarter for expenditure and incomes. The questionnaire will allow application of specific modules
at each round to produce social as well as economic indicators. For comparison purposes, an extra
module on expenditure will be set up with the same specifications as the ones included in the
Priority survey on Living Conditions (IPCVD) performed recently'6.
2.52   A Second Priority Survey on Living Conditions (IPCVDH) will be implemented to
measure poverty trends over time. This second survey will employ the methodology used for the
first one. Except for the expenditure modules, the questionnaire will be modified in response to the
findings of the first IPCVP. The questionnaire will include modules on household composition,
education, health, employment, expenditure and assets. The questionnaire will use diaries to
collect expenditure data over a reference period. The questionnaire will be applied to a sample
between 6,000 to 8,000 households (according accessibility) in urban and rural areas. data
collection will be executed over a three-month period.
2.53   A self-standing Community Survey (CS) will be carried out in urban and rural
communities including the IPCVD sample. The objective of the CS is to provide information on:
(i) community infrastructures; (ii) access to essential public services; (iii) satisfaction of the
population with these services; (iv) employment environment; (v) environmental, community and
cultural constraints; and, (vi) local agricultural practices. The survey is essentially qualitative and
will allow cross-analysis and incidence-analysis between the micro level of the population and the
meso level of the public and the market. In rural areas prices are usually unavailable since most
price data collection is done at the level of the main urban centers. To correct this situation, the
survey will include a price module for collecting prices in the communities.
2.54   The Study Progranm  The GMCVP will receive funds to operate a study program on
poverty and living conditions. The studies will target Government and policymakers as well as the
donor community. Policymakers and donors will be closely associated with the choice of studies,
will decide the criteria for approving studies, will be able to mandate and initiate studies and will
make available all necessary data and information. All such actions will be initiated in the
framework of the SCILC.
16  In the framework of project preparation (and as input to the proposed poverty assessment) a household survey
was carried out by this unit in six provinces. The Priority Survey on Living Conditions (IPCVD) was adapted
from the World Bank Priority Survey for Measuring the Social Impact of Structural Adjustment.



- 20 -
2.55   With a general focus on poverty issues, the Study Program will provide funding for studies
centered on:
(a)    assessing current socioeconomic and social policies and social action programs;
(b)    identifying the most vulnerable groups and measuring their welfare; and
(c)    analyzing poverty issues.
2.56   Criteria for the studies as proposed in the procedures manual of the GMCVP (a draft of
which was reviewed at negotiations), will be agreed upon by the SCILC, INE's director, the Head
of Cabinet and the donors. The studies must have a general focus on poverty issues in Angola,
cost under US$50,000, and last not longer than 12 months. Only Angolan researchers and
institutions, alone or associated with foreign universities and research centers, will be eligible.
Angolan students from Master and Ph.D. courses at the Angola universities may apply for
sponsorship of studies under US$3,000.
2.57   Studies produced through the Study Fund will be reviewed by the Technical Review
Committee (TRC) for clearance. The TRC, an independent body, will also be involved in the
review of the studies' terms of reference before approval. The TRC will be a small group of
experienced Angolan researchers, and specialists in economics, health, education, demography,
urbanization and sociology.
2.58   Research sponsorship. The Project will support development of the capacity of local
researchers by encouraging partnerships between the GMCVP and foreign universities and
research centers, where foreign institutions sponsor the local partner. Sponsorship could take the
form of short-term training sessions given by members of these institutions, intermediary training
sessions (university courses) to improve skills in specific fields, or participatory support to analysis
and studies. The GMCVP will seek financial support for this sub-component from bilateral
donors, or will use study program funds.
2.59   Assessment of the social sectors statistical system. The GMCVP will assess the
availability and quality of the current production of statistics for the social sectors. This will
include relevant ministries and other public and private institutions. The GMCVP will produce a
report of this assessment, including recommendations for improvement.
2.60   Creation and maintenance of a database on poverty and related social issues. The
Poverty Monitoring Unit has reviewed all available studies relevant to welfare and poverty in the
social sector, and produced a bibliography and a summary of all studies. Under the supervision of
the GMCVP, INE's Information and Dissemination Division (normally in charge of the
documentation system) will continue to maintain and update this bibliography and database. A
package such as Geographic Management System will be installed to make the data base user-
friendly. The Credit will finance the software purchase and training for the staff.
2.61   Dissemination program. Together with the Cabinet, the membership of the SCILC will
facilitate wide dissemination of Project outputs to decisionmakers17. The success of the Project
will be measurable by the extent to which it changes the attitude of decisionmakers and mobilizes
efforts to address poverty. The Cabinet and the Sub-Committee will define a strategy for the
dissemination phase. This will include identification of the targeted audience; dissemination of
17  Decisionmakers need adequate and reliable statistics and information for sound policy design. The lack and
scarcity of such information, has so far delayed the development of an integrated system for decisionmaking.



- 21 -
specific publications targeting specific or broad audiences; improvement of marketing skills for the
final presentation of data; programming workshops and seminars, community participatory group
sessions; and use of the media to improve transparency in the process of poverty monitoring.
2.62   To perform these various activities the Credit willfinance technical assistance to support
the survey program in sampling, data processing and analysis"5. The GMCVP will receive
technical assistance in management of funds (procurement, disbursement) and computerized
information for the Project. The GMCVP will provide technical support to the researchers. In
addition to on-the-job training to be provided through technical assistance activities, study trips
will be organized for staff involved in the execution of the Project. Permanent staff and
researchers of the Project will participate in seminars and workshops at which they will
disseminate information generated by the Project. The Credit will finance four fellowships in
public management, economics and social development. Before each survey, training sessions in
data collection and processing will be organized for field staff. The Credit will finance a study
fund for poverty-related studies and workshops. Finally the Credit will finance office equipment
including computers and printers, vehicles (two cars and 20 motorcycles), software and office
supplies, staffforfield work, operating costs (maintenance, fuel, travel subsistence,
communication, transportation) and publications.
Component Structure
2.63   GMCVP. The unit will be composed of three professionals competent in economics,
statistics, demography and sociology, supported by a computer specialist. The Head of Cabinet
will lead the team and will be supported by a Unit Management Team, composed of one
administrator, one expert in accounting, one assistant, and two support staff. During negotiations
the Government has agreed that the qualifications and terms of reference of GMCVP staff as
well as their numbers will have to be acceptable to IDA throughout project implementation.
Consultant staff will be hired on a short-term basis. The UnitManagement Team will issue
contracts and execute salary payments.
2.64   The GMCVP reports to INE's director and [NE's Administrative Board. INE's director
will closely supervise and monitor the activities and the management of the GMCVP and will
provide technical support, collaborate on the definition of conceptual issues, and promote the work
program of GMCVP outside INE. The GMCVP will meet at least once a month with INE's
director and quarterly with the SCIILC to review the GMCVP's work program, analyze requests
for funds from the study program and assess the activities and the quality of outputs of the
GMCVP. Experts may be called to assist these meetings. Activities and projects executed by and
through the GMCVP may be financed or co-financed by other donors or institutions. UNICEF has
expressed interest in providing parallel financing for this component.
2.65   SCILC. The Sub-comnmittee will provide technical support in non-statistical matters to the
GMCVP and will guarantee the relevancy and adequacy of its program for improving the general
welfare of the population. It will also support the incorporation of study findings in Government's
poverty-alleviation strategies. The Sub-committee will include representatives from a)
governmental organizations such as sector ministries and universities; and, b) non-governmental
organizations, such as major NGOs, churches, UN agencies, FAS, labor unions and employers
associations. Small NGOs and bilateral agencies, will rotate membership to ensure the
participation of all stakeholders. To be able to fully support the GMCVP, the Sub-committee
Is See delailed budget in Annex G.



- 22 -
members will have an adequate technical background. Terms of reference for the representatives
will be stated in the decree creating the Sub-committee.
D. Status of Project Preparation
2.66   The status of project preparation differs between the two project components. While the
FAS is being fully implemented now, the Poverty Monitoring component needs to set up
administrative structures that will ensure smooth project implementation, and needs to formalize
the legal framework for its work.
2.67   For the FAS component, both a Special Account for the PPF and a Project Account have
been set up. At both the national and provincial levels, Government has placed financial and
logistical resources at the disposal of the FAS that match the required ten percent of Government
counterpart funds. During negotiations, agreement was reached for the provision by
Government of adequate counterpartfunding.
2.68   The following actions have been taken: a) IDA has received a legal opinion from the
Attomey General confirming that the FAS is correctly constituted and is legal, valid and binding
under the Laws of Angola in accordance with its terms; b) the first audit has been completed and
the results submitted to the NBO and to IDA; c) non-governmental representation has been
included in the National and Provincial Boards of Overseers; and c) the equivalent 10 percentage
of the disbursed PPF has been paid into the Project Account by Government.
2.69   For the Poverty Monitoring component, the draft ministerial decree modifying INE's
Statutes has been presented to the Council of Ministers; approval is expected in the first quarter of
1996. 1INE has presented a satisfactory first draft of the manual of procedures for the GMCVP.
While the Poverty Monitoring Unit has proved its capacity to manage funds of around
US$200,000 it has encountered delays while implementing IDA-funded surveys. Appraisal
revealed the Unit's organizational and administrative weaknesses, and poor staff knowledge of
IDA procedures. The Unit will be reinforced with an administrator trained in IDA procedures.
INE has presented to IDA a dossier for hiring the administrative and managerial personnel needed
for the smooth operation of the GMCVP, as well as plans to set up an accounting system in
accordance with IDA standards. IDA contracting documents are already being used. During
negotiations Government agreed that since appointment of an experienced administrator with
qualifications, skills, and experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA to staff the
unit, and adoption of a manual of procedures satisfactory to IDA, are both fundamental to
smooth component implementation, both measures are made conditions of disbursement for this
component.



- 23 -
E. Sustainability
FAS
2.70   This Project is designed to help the country through its transition phase. Although an
extension of the FAS beyond the life of the Project is likely, it is expected that the total life of the
FAS will not exceed eight to ten years. At the midterm review of the Project, preliminary views on
extension of the FAS beyond the initial four years will be formulated. Irrespective of any decision
to extend the FAS, the philosophy of self-help and the procedures and criteria developed to
implement and support community initiatives will remain in place. The skills leamed by
communities during the Project to use and account for funds and build, rehabilitate and maintain
infrastructure will be sustained by the communities themselves. Working together in the provincial
Board of Overseers will give provincial authorities a closer knowledge of the FAS, facilitating
future cooperation.
2.71   Financing recurrent costs is a persistent challenge. The responsibility for ensuring that
sufficient financing is made available lies with the sub-project sponsors. Public revenue remains a
critical source of financing of recurrent costs for projects, especially for health and education
infrastructure. Before approval, sub-projects have to include proof of the Government's
commitment to fund the operation and maintenance of public facilities rehabilitated under the
Project. User fees are another potential source of revenues: health services and water and
sanitation are good examples. However, this requires developed institutional capacity within the
sponsoring group and willingness to pay from the public. Both must be carefully verified before
project approval, and be subsequently monitored by NCU and IDA. During the pilot phase, the
average total investment costs per direct beneficiary has been US$5.54 (see Annex 0). The
rehabilitated structures are calculated to last about 10 years with basic maintenance and without
major repairs. During the pilot phase, sub-project incremental recurrent costs averaged US$0.28
per year per direct beneficiary. That figure represents around 1/900 of the GNP per capita. These
figures consider only direct beneficiaries, not the whole community. Even in the difficult situation
of Angolan communities, this seemns affordable. The comnmunities themselves demand the
rehabilitation of the infrastructures and are helping in this work. The FAS will mainly rehabilitate
existing infrastructures. Since these are staffed already, incremental costs for the relevant
Ministries will be minimal.
2.72   Sustainability of the infrastructure sub-projects is assured because the community
implementing the sub-project has contributed substantially to it and has a strong sense of
ownership. Every sub-project has an established and functioning maintenance committee. Since
government agencies are involved with the development and the implementation of each social
sector sub-project from the beginning, the sustainability of service delivery is enhanced. All sub-
projects are appraised for financial sustainability. Sustainability of previously implemented sub-
projects is an important criterion for approval of a proposal for a further sub-project by the same
sponsor or the same community.
2.73   Sustainability of the revenue-generating sub-projects is assured by the development of a
sound business plan at the conception of the sub-project, the sub-project's obvious value for the
beneficiary, and the beneficiary's sense of ownership of this private enterprise.
Poverty Monitoring
2.74   The GMCVP will be sustained through the institutional strengthening of the ME. The
establishment of INE's new structure, which is stated in the proposed draft Statutes of INE, is a



- 24 -
prerequisite for ensuring that sustainability. By the end of the Project, the GMCVP will have
proved itself a capable institution producing policy-relevant outputs. The GMCVP will gradually
become independent of project subsidization, as other institutions in and outside government fund
data collection operations and studies. This independence is expected to be achieved through the
GMCVP becoming an efficiently operating unit associated in joint ventures with other donors as
well as through public and private institutions hiring its services.
F. Special Project Issues
2.75   Environmental issues. The environmental rating of the Project is a C, that is, no major
environmental effects are expected and no environmental assessment is necessary. No significant
negative impact from the infrastructure sub-projects is expected: these are mainly concemed with
rehabilitation, not new construction. Anthropologists and dryland ecologists will support the FAS
staff in the development of sub-project approval criteria for the arid and semi-arid areas of
southem Angola, especially for water projects.
2.76   Waste management will be an important part of some urban sub-projects. Overall the
Project will have a positive effect on the environment because of the strong focus on water,
sanitation and waste management in the infrastructure rehabilitation sub-projects.
2.77   Poverty category. The Project is part of the core poverty program for Angola and is
included in the program of targeted interventions. The beneficiaries of the FAS are primarily
women and children living in poor peri-urban and rural areas in which basic social, economic and
productive infrastructure has been severely damaged by war and lack of maintenance. The people
will benefit from increased access to schools, health facilities, and water points. Communities
living in these same areas will in general benefit from the FAS activities through improvement of
roads, markets and sanitation conditions, and greater access to funds for small investments.
G. Evaluation, Reviews and Reporting
FAS
2.78   Evaluation. The Project is subject to extemal annualfinancial and managerial audits,
the first of which took place during the FAS pilot phase. For the FAS, technical audits will take
place on a stratified sampling basis, with representative samples for every area of intervention.
These will review the FAS effectiveness and procedures as well as technical quality and
sustainability. The audits will also review sponsor procedures to evaluate sub-project outcomes.
Financial audits will be undertaken using established standard procedures.
2.79   Impact evaluation through systematic client consultation will be performed annually by an
outside agency to be selected through a short list.'9 This will assess the impact of project activities
in the comnmunities, with special emphasis on the poor and women. Participatory methodologies
(such as beneficiary assessments) will be used. The first such evaluation is scheduled to take place
in August 1996. An overview of the scheduled evaluations is in Annex L.
19  At least one NGO in the country has the capacity to perform this type of evaluation.



- 25 -
2.80   The results of all evaluations will be incorporated in the Project strategy. The aim is to
have a flexible FAS accountable to the beneficiaries and responding to the dynamics of the
Angolan transition.
2.81   Review. To incorporate the results of evaluations and to permit IDA to remain abreast
of what is going on in the Project as a whole, reviews will be held on a semi-annual basis.
Reviews will include a record of Government's commitment to operate and maintain public
facilities rehabilitated under the Project in a manner acceptable to IDA. For these reviews, a
number of monitoring indicators have been developed. These stem from the FAS Management
Information System, and from the financial and technical audits and impact evaluations (see Annex
L). Project impact and performance indicators (Annex H) give an overview of the Project, linking
inputs, outputs and outcomes of the Project to its objectives. If telecommunications develop as
expected, the system may be accessed directly from Washington DC. The detailed supervision
schedule can be found in Annex I.
2.82   At negotiations Government agreed to undertake a midterm review not less than 24
months, and not more than 30 months after the Project becomes effective, or when 50 percent of
funds have been disbursed, whichever comes first, after which the Government will present a
plan acceptable to IDA for the further implementation of the Project. Participants in the midterm
review include the Bank, the NCU and provincial managers, the National and Provincial Boards of
Overseers, and other stakeholders. A document prepared by the NCU summarizing experience to
date, problems encountered and solutions found, will be the basis of discussion. Other inputs will
be the results of recent audits and evaluations and a summary of FAS reports to the Bank. The
review will help to redefine and adapt the FAS strategy and to formulate preliminary ideas on
extension of the Project beyond the initial 4 years. Participants in the semi-annual reviews include
the Bank, the NCU and the National Board of Overseers. Discussions will be based on the
combined FAS reports to the Bank.
2.83   Reporting. The NCU reports to the Bank on a quarterly basis. The reports focus on
specific issues that have arisen in implementation for which policy guidance is required (see Annex
J for an outline). Reports are timed to the review schedule.
Poverty Monitoring
2.84   Evaluation. For the GMCVP, financial and managerial evaluations will be performed
annually by the same firm and at the same time as for the FAS. The agency will evaluate GMCVP
efficiency and adequacy of procedures. Technical evaluation will not be performed as part of the
annual audits. However, there will be regular IDA missions to guarantee the technical quality of
the studies at all times. Financial audits will be executed using established standard procedures.
2.85   Review and supervision. IDA will perform semi-annual technical supervision of the
Poverty Monitoring component. Supervision will include agreement on a yearly program for the
GMCVP. Efforts will be made to overlap with the FAS review. Before a supervision mission, the
Unit Management at GMCVP will produce a report on progress to date. For the Household
Surveys, IDA missions will visit Angola to verify that the implementation complies with the design
and recommendations of the experts. These visits will enable close follow-up of the Project to
avoid or to solve major technical and administrative problems that may arise. IDA will ensure
three missions per survey, at such critical points as, the preparation of the design of the survey
documents, the organization of the field and data processing work, the pilot tests, the data
processing stage and the analysis stage. These visits will complement the regular technical



- 26 -
assistance directly provided through the Project. Reports produced by technical assistance
missions will support supervision and evaluation of project component implementation. Technical
supervision of the Study Program will be done through review of the studies before publication.
IDA will provide comments and recommendations. For important studies such as the Poverty
Profiles or for studies with a deep impact on policy design, the Bank will have experts review the
findings. At negotiations the Government agreed to grant public access to all information from
surveys and studies funded by the proceeds of the Credit.
2.86   To monitor this project component, performance indicators have been established with
INE. The production of the sampling design, the final questionnaire, manuals, and the report on
the survey's main results are typical milestones. For the Study Program, progress at the technical
level will be measured through the clearances and quality assessments of the studies by the TCR
and IDA. The percentage of studies approved by the partners and the proportion of studies
completed will indicate of the efficiency of the Study Program. This will be complemented by
measuring the percentage of studies used in policy decisions, project designs, project evaluations or
project improvement. For an overview of these indicators, see Annex H.
2.87   A midterm review will be held concurrently with the FAS midterm review. For this
component, participants in the midterm review will be IDA, the Administrative Board of the INE,
the GMCVP and other stakeholders, Input to this review will consist of the annual reports of the
GMCVP, updated to the date of the review.
2.88   Reporting. The GMCVP will produce annual reports on its achievements together with
quarterly financial reports. These reports, including the work program for the coming year, will be
presented and discussed during a meeting with participating donors and the Ministry of Planning.
The reports will highlight issues that have arisen in implementation for which guidance is required.
The outline of these reports is presented in Annex J.



- 27 -
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENT
A. Costs
3 .1    The total cost of the Project is US$51.9 million equivalent. This includes about US$3.5
and US$0.8 million in operating costs for the FAS and GMCVP respectively. The size of the FAS
component is calculated by appraising, at the pilot phase, the capacity of communities and the FAS
to complete on-going sub-projects and process new applications, respectively. The cost tables for
this component are based on an acceptable minimum pace of 24 projects per province per semester
(1 new sub-project per week); with an acceptable maximum operating cost burden of 10 percent
once that pace is achieved (for a total of 11 percent of total sub-project costs), given an average
estimate of US$18,000 per project. The FAS investment will then be US$41 million equivalent
over 4 years. The nominal exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the life of the Project so as to
maintain a constant real exchange rate.
Table 3.1: Project Costs (in US$ million)
PPF    Year 1   Year 2  Year 3   Year 4    Total   % base    %
costs  foreign
A. Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS)
Establishment'                  0451     0.400   0.240    0.160   0.160      1.411       3       75
Operation                       0.334     0.546   0.681    0.735   0.825     3.126       6        5
Sub-projects                     1.08      5.58    9.88    11.34   13.07     40.95       80        5
Technical Assistance            0.478     0.446   0.454    0.490   0.626      2.494       5       75
Total Social Action Fund             2.34     6.97   11.25    12.73   14.68      47.98      94       13
B. Poverty Monitoring
Establishment2                   -        0.044    0.06    0.017   0.011      0.133       0       75
Operation                        -        0.186   0.192    0.184   0.175       0.73       1       10
Studies & Surveys                 -        0.521   0.626    0.564   0.434     2.147       4        5
Total Poverty Monitoring             -        0.751   0.878    0.766    0.621     3.02       6        9
Total Without Contingencies         2.343     7.723  12.135  13.491  15.304       51.0     100       13
Contingencies                        -       0.096   0.202   0.290   0.402       0.992       2       33
TOTAL                               2.343     7.820  12.338  13.782  15.706    51.991      102       14
Taxes and Duties                     -        -        -       -       -         1.265       2        0
Total (including taxes & duties)                                                53.257     104        0
Cumulative international inflation  0.0%      4.5%    9.0%   13.5%   18.0%
1996-2000
1: Includes rehabilitatim of provincial offices, vehicles, and office equipnmt
2: Includes vdeicles and office equipment
3.2    Incremental operating costs of the FAS have not been shown on a declining basis, because
its sustainability is not an issue in itself. Incremental operating costs which arise out of the
Project's activities (operating costs for rehabilitated health and education facilities, for example),



- 28 -
must be addressed in all sub-project proposals. Where Government contribution is implied
(staffing, for example), commitment must be obtained before the approval of a sub-project. The
incremental recurrent costs arising from maintenance and operation of such facilities and works are
not considered part of the project costs. For GMCVP the financing of incremental operating costs
will be done on a declining basis as indicated in Table 3.3.
B. Financing
Table 3.2: Financing Plan (in US$ mnillion)
IDA   Bneficiaries' Government2   NGOs and    Other       Total        % IDA
ather spa2sors3  Daomrs4   including
ctgmdcies
A. Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS)
EstablisimaitandOperaticms   3.80                      1.10                   0.06         4.96           77%
Sub-prejeds                 15.05         6.14         1.02          1.02    17.70       40.95           37%
Tedmical AssicLance           2.35                                            0.38         2.73           86%
Tdal Social Actic Funid       21.21         6.14         2.12          1.02    18.15        48.64           44%
B. Povaty Mauitring
Estabhshment and Operaticms  0.55                      0.41                                0.96           57%
Surveys and Studies          2.23                                             0.15         2.38           94%
TotalPovertyMcmitoring         2.78                      0.41                   0.15         3.34           83%
TOTAL                         24.00         6.14         2.53          1.02    18.29       51.99           46%
Percet of Ttal Cost            46%          12%           5%           2%       35%        100%            46%
Ndes: Fron theexperience of the pilot phase:
1.  Bcneficiary cmtribuion to sub-projeds has bean etuinated at 15 percet al average, on3prising cantributimxs in cas, rnaterials or
labor
2.  Gove nmmnt cxmtributica to sub-projeds has been esirnated at 2.5 percent mx average.
3.  Ccatributiam of NGOs and other spasorsto sub-projedshas been eAtimaed at 2.5 percent. Government is alsoprovidingbuildings
and furniture to FAS naticnal and provincial offices (not iinchudeed in this table).
4.  Gove_mentis seekingUSS18 nillicmfrcm donorsfrfinancingboh conponents oftheProjed, moatlyfor sub-projec costs. A
small amount is intended for the costs of adninustration assocated vith expansica of adivities.
3.3      The total costs for the Project will be financed as follows: IDA will fund 46 percent of
total project costs; communities will provide 10-20 percent of sub-project costs through their
contributions in labor, in cash and in kind; this has been estimated at an average of 15 percent and
may include contributions by NGOs, churches and local authorities; Government will fund five
percent of the overall project costs. Every year, counterpart funding totaling 5 percent of estimated
disbursement (Table 3.4), will be budgeted, in US$ equivalent, in the Government of Angola's
Annual Budget Exercise, and disbursed quarterly to the Project Account. At the end of the fiscal
year, counterpart funding will be reviewed to match the Project's actual disbursement. In addition,
Government will ensure the operation of public facilities rehabilitated under the Project, through
yearly budgetary allocations, and the provision of personnel (teachers, nurses). Co-financing is
being sought for about US$18.3 million to finance sub-projects and some operating costs. At the
United Nations Round Table on Angola, held September 25 to 29, 1995 Government and the FAS
technical team presented the SAP as one of the preferred channels for community financing.



- 29 -
Several governments expressed interest. During the first quarter of 1996, the borrower, IDA and
representatives of these govemments will meet to confirm parallel financing arrangements. The
extent of co-financing will ultimately determine the scale and timing of the Project. Since FAS
operating costs are financed through the IDA Credit, Project implementation is independent from
co-financing.
3.4    Operating costs of the Project administration will be bome by Government (22%), IDA
(77%) and other donors (I %). These costs encompass the hiring of FAS staff, and setting up of
new Provincial Offices, office equipment and vehicles, running costs, stationery, water, light and
fuel. Taxes and duties apply only to imported goods and range from 5%-25%. These have been
estimated at an average value of 18%, with a resulting impact of about 2% in the total project
costs. This amount is not included within the estimated project costs. As in other projects in
Angola, the Ministry of Finance has provided the FAS with an official exemption of duties on
FAS-financed purchases. However it remains the responsibility of the implementing agencies to
exercise these exemptions and where not realized, to ensure that an additional Government
contribution is made to cover any taxes and duties that arise from this project.
3.5    Given the magnitude and anticipated pace of the FAS, it is important that there be a
unified set of procedures for project selection, disbursement, procurement and contracting, to
which all co-financiers must agree. All major co-financiers will be invited to participate on the
semi-annual national work plans, which will include financing and procurement plans.
C. Procurement
3.6    The exact mix of goods and services to be financed by the Credit will depend on the
identification of demand-driven sub-projects. The focus has been on streamlining the process, not
on determining exact quantities. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4.
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines, Procurement Under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, with emphasis on section 3.15, Community
Participation. Contracts financed by other co-financiers are expected to follow FAS procurement
procedures which are consistent with those of IDA.
3.7    The following steps have been taken to ensure that the procurement of goods and works
under this Project is consistent with the principles of competition while ensuring the participation
of provincial and local contractors: (a) a civil engineer has been hired by the NCU to design
standard technical specifications and to supervise procurement by the provincial offices and NCB
or ICB when needed; (b) national staff have received training in IDA procurement procedures; (c)
technical assistance by a procurement specialist will be provided to assist in the preparation of
quarterly implementation plans; (d) simplified standard bidding documents have been developed to
be employed for all provincial and local competitive bidding; and (e) standard technical
specifications and bills of quantities, including standard plans drawn up by sector ministries, will
be used whenever possible. All procedures have been tested in the pilot phase with satisfactory
results. Procedures will still be reviewed regularly for clarity and simplicity (many of the
contractors are semi-literate), effectiveness and efficiency. To date, the pilot appears to be
supporting a competitive process with a sufficient number of small contractors participating.



- 30 -
Table 3.3: Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million)
ICB    NCB    Community    Ccusultant    Other methods    ProcLrcment    Toal
Services     acceptable to      under
IDA2        cootributiams
from others
A Civil Works
FAS Sub-projects                    1.02      10.36                                        9.1         20.48
(1.02)L    (6.50)                                         -         (7.53)
FAS Adimisiraticm                                                          0.20                        0.20
(0.19)                      (0.19)
Poverty Mautoring
B. Goods (equipment & vehicles)
FASSub-projets              2.76    4.67       2.81                                        8.19        18.43
(2.76)  (2.17)     (1.84)                                        -         (6.77)
FAS Adnmistrabnm                                                           2.30                        2.30
(1.25)                      (1.25)
Poverty Mcutring                                                           0.15                        0.15
(0.15)                      (0.15)
C. Consultant Services
FAS Sub-projects                                             1.0                           1.05        2.05
(0.75)                                     (0.75)
FAS Adniniuration                                           2.73                                       2.73
(2.35)                                     (2.35)
Poverty Monitoring                                          2.38                                       2.38
(2.23)                                     (2.23)
D. Incremntal Recurrmt Costs
FAS Sub-projeds
FAS Adininistration                                                        2.46                         246
(2.36)                      (2.36)
Poverty Monitoring                                                         0.82                        0.82
(0.41)                      (0.41)
Total                           2.76    5.69       13.17        6.11            5.93           18.34         52
(2.76)  (3.19)     (8.35)       (5.33)         (4.36)                      (24.00)
Note 1: Figures in brackets indicate IDA financing
Note 2: Other methods acceptable to IDA are:
a   Single-source procurement of goods from IAPSO, and
b   National shopping for local salaries and other local qoeratlng costs.
3.8      Nucleos comunitarios are responsible for most procurement under the FAS-financed sub-
projects with support from the sponsor agency or the Provincial FAS office. All contracts are
signed between the nucleo comunitario and the contractor or supplier, but payments are made by
the Fund directly to the supplier (on the beneficiary's written order). Monitoring and audit
procedures for procurement by sub-project committees follow the guidelines detailed in the FAS
Procedures and Administrative Manuals. The NCU manages the procurement of any acquisition of
sub-project materials over US$50,000 equivalent. The NCU is responsible for the procurement of
goods and services outside sub-projects, up to an aggregate amount of US$4.03 million.
3.9      International competitive bidding (ICB). ICB will be carried out in accordance with
IDA guidelines for contracts of US$100,000 or more for goods. Domestic preference will be
employed where applicable in these procurements, as in IDA guidelines. ICB is unlikely to be used
for civil works, as most of the civil works contracts are small and scattered. ICB will primarily be



- 31 -
followed in the bulk procurement of equipment and materials for sub-projects (such as water
pumps and teaching materials).
3.10   National competitive bidding (NCB). For works, NCB will be carried out for contracts
between US$50,000 and US$100,000, and for goods (including school and health post equipment),
for contracts between US$20,000 and US$100,000. This category is not expected to exceed
US$5.69 million total over the life of the project. US$4.67 million equivalent will be for goods
(including school and health post equipment), and US$1.02 million equivalent for civil works.
3.11 Community-based procurement Civil works and goods for sub-projects up to an
aggregate amount of US$13.17 million, can be procured on the basis of three written quotations.
To encourage participation of small and local firms, the FAS is advertising (posting) in advance
articipated sub-projects in the community, in its offices, and in the national and provincial
electronic and print media. This has been helpful in preventing shortages of construction materials
in the provinces by allowing suppliers to anticipate demand.
3.12   About 2,000 scattered contracts for civil works, for amounts between US$5,000 to
US$50,000, consisting of primary schools, health posts, dams, small roads, markets, up to an
aggregate amount of US$10.36 million, are expected. In the pilot phase, the average contract has
been valued at about US$20,000. Community groups will engage qualified small local contractors
selected on the basis of at least three written quotations. Standard technical specifications will be
used wherever possible. Techniques of construction that favor community contribution (which will
typically consist of materials and labor) will be preferred. The FAS will not become a wholesale
supplier of goods nor will it become the implementing agency on behalf of community groups.
3.13   Procurement of goods will consist mostly of equipment, furniture and materials for schools
and health posts. About 1,000 such contracts will financed by IDA, each valued between
US$5,000 and US$20,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount of US$2.81 million.
3.14   Other methods acceptable to IDA. Lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotation obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in response to a
written invitation, may be used to procure civil works under US$50,000 for the establishment of
the FAS offices in the provinces up to an aggregated amount of US$200,000. Prudent national
shopping, up to an aggregated amount of US$1.15 million, may be used for transport and fuel as
well as for certain FAS investments for goods under US$20,000 for up to an aggregate of US$1
million and for office furniture supplies and fuel for the GMCVP up to US$150,000. Direct
purchases may be made from IAPSO, provided that prices are competitive, for vehicles and office
equipment, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3 million.
3.15   Consultant services. Selection and appointment of consultants and other services will be
carried out in accordance with "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency " (August, 1981). For the FAS component, this category
includes the FAS staff and consultants, up to an aggregate amount of US$3.73 million. Sub-
project implementation may require consultants to assist with technical design and, in some cases,
technical supervision. A total of about 200 such contracts will take place, for amounts between
US$1,500 and US$5,000, up to an aggregate amount of US $1 mnillion. Registers of individuals to
be hired directly or through a consultant firm, will be listed to be invited to bid on these tasks.
These lists will be compiled in the Provincial Offices and in the NCU. It was agreed at
negotiations that whenever possible these contracts would be aggregated. For the poverty
monitoring component, this category includes TA and GMCVP staff hired on six-month contracts



- 32 -
and local consultants. About 100 contracts for amounts between US$1,500 and US$100,000 are
expected for an aggregate amount of US$2.38 million.
3.16   Tender documentationformat IDA's standard bidding documents will be used for all
ICB financed by the Credit. For NCB, Government has prepared standard documentation
acceptable to IDA (included in the FAS Manuals). During negotiations it was agreed that when
applicable (contracts and NCB) the GMCVP will use documents similar to the FAS. Community
participation will use simplified standard bidding documents developed during project preparation.
These documents will also be employed for all provincial and local competitive bidding. For the
FAS, these documents are contained in the FAS Procedures Manuals which were reviewed and
agreed upon at negotiations.
3.17   Procurement rewiw. All ICB packages will be submitted for prior review by IDA. All
financed consultant contracts above US$50,000 equivalent for firms and US$20,000 equivalent for
individual consultants, and all sole-source contracts will be submitted for prior review. The terms
of reference for all consultants and for studies will be submitted to IDA for technical review. All
other contracts will be subject to selective post review. FAS and the GMCVP will be required to
maintain proper records to facilitate review by IDA.
D. Disbursements
Table 3.4: Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit (in US$ million)
IDA amount                  Percentage of eligible
IDA disbursements
1. Works                          0.15           100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local
expenditures
2. Goods
FAS                             1.0            100%o of foreign expenditures and 95% of local
expenditures
GMCVP                           0.15           100% of foreign expenditures and 95% of local
expenditures
3. FAS sub-projects              12.89        100Yo of amounts disbursed by FAS for each sub-project
for vwhich a financing agreement has been entered into
4. FAS Consultant Serices and     1.7                           1OOYo
Training
5. GMCVP Consultant Services     2.16                           100%
and Training (including Studies
and Surveys)
6. Operating Costs
FAS                             1.7                            95%
GMCVP                           0.4            100% for the first two years of execution of this
component and 80% thereafter
7. UnaUocated                     2.00
S. PPF rdinancing                 2.00
Total                            24.00
3.18   It is estimated that the IDA Credit will be disbursed over 4 years, from January, 1996,
through December, 1999, with procurement and disbursement for sub-projects completed by June
30, 2000 (completion date). The closing date will be December, 2000. The proposed allocation of



- 33 -
the Credit is shown in Table 3.3. The estimated disbursement profile takes into account the
historical profile for decentralized social sector projects in the region, and the technical assistance
provided for improving procurement and accountability.
3.19   During negotiations, it was agreed that Government will ensure that all applications to
withdraw proceedsfrom the Credit be fully documented exceptfor expendituresfor training,
workshops, recurrent costs, andfor contracts with a value of US$I 00, 000 or lessfor goods and
civil works, andfor consultant services under USS50, 000forfirms and US$20, 000for
individualsfor which reimbursements are made against SOEs.
3.20   Disbursement procedures under the FAS are streamlined and decentralized to delegate
responsibility and accountability for funds to the lowest level of implementation. Funds are
advanced monthly to provincial FAS units on the basis of a quarterly work plan in accordance with
the semi-annual work program and funding requirement (SWP). This report will indicate the
activities to be undertaken each six months, the location (province, district), and appropriate
measurable indicators of progress. To ensure that the funds advanced are used only for the
purposes intended, the FAS has put in place comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
arrangements reviewed during appraisal and deemed acceptable to IDA.
3.21   If co-financiers are found, financing and disbursement arrangements under the FAS will be
determined each semester in accordance with the SWP, which is to be prepared by the central FAS
and agreed to by all donors. Separate special accounts for each donor will be opened in a
commercial bank acceptable to IDA and the donors.
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit (in US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year    FY96     FY97        FY98        FY99        FY00        FY01
Annual           2.08        4.00        6.00        6.00        4.00        1.92
Cuinulative      2.08        6.08        12.08      18.08       22.08       24.00
Cumulative %    8.66%       25.33%      50.33%      75.3%        92%         100%
3.22   Each provincial FAS unit will also open a separate bank account into which advances will
be made from the Special Account (SA) according to the funding needs identified in the SWP. At
least once a month, the provincial FAS will submit replenishment applications to the NCU with
appropriate supporting documents. Such applications will be submitted monthly. Funds for
headquarters activities will be retained in the central Special Accounts.
3.23   For the GMCVP, requests for replenishment of the SA will normally be submitted to IDA
every month, but no later than every three months. Withdrawal applications for direct payment
from the Credit account will be submitted for expenditures above 20 percent for the SA
(US$20,000 equivalent).
3.24   Each provincial FAS unit submits simplified statements of expenditures (SOEs) to the
NCU no later than 3 months after the advances were made. The NCU will not make further
advances to decentralized units until a proper accounting of the use of previous advances has been
submitted. The simplified SOEs summarize the expenditures by category and by source of
financing (IDA or donors). Documents supporting expenditures below the limits indicated are



- 34-
retained at decentralized locations for review by independent auditors and IDA supervision
missions.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.25   A SA with an authorized allocation of US$1.5 million representing four months of average
project expenditures for the FAS component, has already been established in a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. During the initial period of implementation, when disbursement will be slower,
the special account initial deposit will be US$750,000. After the aggregate disbursement of the
project reaches US$5 million, the balance of the authorized allocation will be disbursed into this
SA. A second SA, for the disbursements under the Poverty Monitoring component of the Project,
with an authorized allocation of US$200,000 will be established in a commercial bank acceptable
to IDA. For this second account, the initial deposit will be US$100,000. After the aggregate
disbursement of the project reaches US$1 million, the balance of the authorized allocation will be
disbursed into this second SA. Requests for replenishment of both SA will normally be submitted
to IDA every month, but no later than every three months. Withdrawal applications for direct
payment from the Credit accounts may be submitted for expenditures above 20 percent of each SA.
The Government has opened a local currency account for its counterpart financing of the FAS
component with an initial deposit of US$60,000 equivalent. The Government will establish an
account in local currency, in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, for counterpart funding of
the GMCVP, with an initial deposit of US$5, 000 equivalent. The establishment of this account
with a deposit of US$5, 000 equivalent is a condition for disbursement offunds under the Poverty
Monitoring component.
3.26   Audit. Government performance in auditing Project Accounts in Angola has generally
been acceptable, and Government is in full compliance on other social sector projects. The quality
of the audits has been satisfactory. A firm acceptable to IDA has already carried out a financial
and managerial audit of the FAS activities during project preparation. The audit was completed on
time, but was qualified because of the organization of the paper accounts before the installation of
the accounting system. The assessment was generally favorable and measures have been
undertaken to implement the suggested improvements. An annual contract, to audit the FAS
component, renewable for five years, has been signed with the firm. The contract will be revised to
include auditing for the Poverty Monitoring component.
3.27   During negotiations, agreement was reached that Government will present to IDA audit
reports for the project, as soon as possible after the end of the Angolan financial year, but no
later than six months after its completion. These audits will report on the ProjectAccounts with
separate opinions on the use of each Special Account and on the Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) for both components. A management letter will also be part of the audits. The audits
will be carried out by an independent auditingfirm, with proper qualifications (already
appointed) and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The costs of the audits are eligible
for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. Audits will include technical and management
issues. The part of the audit report that refers to the FAS will include a review of the sponsor's
performance, and will be submitted simultaneously to the NBO of the FAS and to IDA.



- 35 -
4. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
FAS
4.1    Estimating the exact benefits of this type of project is difficult because activities (sub-
projects) are demand-driven, thus making it difficult to anticipate the project area, the total number
of beneficiaries, and the number and mix of project types. However, the pilot project experience
has provided some perspective on what might reasonably be expected from the FAS. Qualitative
outcomes can be demonstrated by case descriptions.
4.2    From projections from the pilot experience, it is estimated that the FAS will construct
approximately 230 new schools, rehabilitate over 680 existing schools, and provide the initial
investment in their equipment and supplies. This would result in increased access to (mostly)
primary education for approximately 450,000 children.
4.3    Similarly, it is estimated that the FAS will rehabilitate or construct around 450 health
posts. At an average of 800 patients per year, 350,000 people will benefit. Water supply will be
improved by various means in 200 sub-projects, benefiting 50,000 people. An additional 120
latrines will improve living conditions for 50,000 Angolans. Various other projects, such as
laundries, roads, bridges, irrigation works, markets and other infrastructure works will improve
economic access and living conditions for approximately 300,000 people. By enabling the rapid
rehabilitation and construction of basic social infrastructure, FAS will directly improve living
conditions for at least 10 percent of the Angolan population. The main beneficiaries of the projects
are children (43 percent) and women (33 percent).
4.4    The project has implications for improving community solidarity. Social forces in
communities, ranging from local authorities, to churches and neighborhood groups, cooperate
through FAS sub-projects to improve the living conditions of the community. The result is a
rekindled spirit of self-reliance, an increased sense of ownership, and an increased feeling of
"community" in this war-tom country. In several projects implemented under the pilot,
communities began preparing for the rehabilitation of facilities (carrying stones, leveling the
ground) even before the sub-project was approved.
4.5    The FAS has become a platform for donor co-ordination. One example is the proposal to
construct school canteens for a whole province, that has required the coordination of inputs from
parent's associations, UNICEF (tables and kitchen materials) and the World Food Program (food).
4.6    There is the increased capacity of community-based organizations, local, provincial and
national government and NGOs to plan, appraise and complete capital projects. As groups become
familiar with the FAS, and as promotional materials are distributed, the time-span between sub-
project preparation and approval is being shortened.
Poverty Monitoring
4.7    The main benefit an'sing from the Poverty Monitoring component will be improved
knowledge, through 3 large national surveys and several smaller studies, of the Angolan



- 36 -
population's living conditions. Besides increasing the capacity for research and planning in
Angola, these activities will vastly improve the capacity for policymaking within Angola to target
programs and policies to the poor and vulnerable. Since these surveys and studies will establish
important benchmarks against which to assess changes in the living conditions of different social
groups, an improved capacity to evaluate such programs and policies for poverty reduction impact
is required and expected.
B. Project Risks
FAS
4.8    The main risks are:
(a)    That the political and military situation deteriorates again, making it impossible to
implement the project, or for communities to undertake their activities.
Expectations within and outside the country for sustaining the recent peace
agreement suggest that the return to war is unlikely, even in that unhappy event,
the current FAS structure allows for the continuation of activities even if in limited
areas of the country.
(b)    That decentralization of the FAS will result in a FAS management not capable of
implementing the project as expected. That risk is being reduced through
performance incentives and training. The risk of political interference is reduced
through FAS autonomy and the participation of a wide spectrum of agents on its
NBO;
(c)    That poor technical quality of the works could undermine the sustainability of the
sub-projects and community participation. This is being addressed by the
budgeting for significant inputs into technical monitoring and supervision;
(d)    That the Govemment of Angola may fail to meet its financial commitments to the
project. Govemment allocated in the 1994 and 1995 budgets sufficient
counterpart funds for the FAS. During the pilot phase the Govemment has
honored its commitment without default. At negotiations, agreement was reached
as to the amount of Govemment semi-annual contributions to the FAS.



- 37 -
Poverty Monitoring
4.9    The risks associated with the GMCVP are:
(a)    That administrative and managerial weakness will not allow this organization to
properly administer and implement the studies and surveys. This issue has been
addressed by including as conditions of disbursement for this component: a) the
appointment of an experienced administrator with qualifications, skills and
experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; b) the adoption of a
manual of procedures satisfactory to IDA to regulate the fumctioning of the unit
and establish criteria for the disbursement of the Study Fund. GMCVP may hire
an accounting firm to set-up an accounting system acceptable to IDA. The project
design ensures sufficient technical support to GMCVP during survey
implementation. Moreover, the existing Poverty Monitoring Unit has just
completed a national survey of size and complexity similar to the ones proposed.
(b)    That disbursement delays may hamper the schedule of the surveys as plarmed.
This problem occurred dunrng the first IPCVD because the PMU then had no
direct access to the survey funds. The risk has been minimized by increasing
autonomy through an independent Special Account;
(c)    That key staff (including trained researchers) may leave the GMCVP to take up
positions elsewhere. The n'sk is mitigated through on-the-job training, improved
work environment, frequent supervision and support from TA, and the
implementation of high-profile activities. This will motivate staff;
(d)    That the local research community and the policymakers do not use the facilities
offered by the GMCVP. The risk is minimized by GMCVPs integration in the
permanent structure of [NE, by the high profile it currently enjoys, by continued
advertising, and by dissemination of its outputs.
(e)    That the policy context in Angola becomes too unstable to allow incorporation of
information and recommendations acquired by the GMCVP into processes of
planning and policy formulation. However any data collected would still be
useful once the situation stabilizes again and the country's capacity to measure the
population's living conditions would be stronger.



- 38 -
5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Conditions
5.1    The recommendations and conditions for preparation and approval of the project follow:
5.2    As a condition of effectiveness of the IDA Credit, a Subsidiary Grant Agreement between
Government and the FAS acceptable to IDA for the use of the proceeds of the IDA Credit be
executed (para 2.10).
5.3    As conditions of disbursement of the IDA Credit proceeds for the Poverty Monitoring
component: (a) 1NE will have adopted a manual of procedures for the GMCVP satisfactory to
IDA; (b) INE will have appointed an administrator, to administer the GMCVP funds, with
qualifications, skills and experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (c) IDA will
have received a satisfactory legal opinion that the ministerial decree modifying INE Statutes has
been approved; and, (d) the Government will have established an account in local currency with an
initial deposit of US$5,000 equivalent in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA, for counterpart
funding of the project expenditures for the GMCVP (paras 2.47, 2.69 & 3.25).
B. Agreements
5.4    To ensure smooth implementation of the project, at negotiations Government agreed to:
(a) grant the proceeds of the IDA Credit to the FAS through a Subsidiary Grant
Agreement satisfactory to IDA (para 2.10);
(b) require the FAS to have professional staff at national and provincial levels, with
qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions of employment acceptable
to IDA throughout project implementation (para 2.25);
(c) ensure that the Procedures and Administrative Manuals of the FAS, including the
strategy for expansion of activities to additional provinces are at all times satisfactory
to IDA, and that these will not be modified without IDA's prior agreement (paras
2.13& 2.29);
(d) require the GMCVP to carry out studies and surveys in accordance with terms of
reference and timetables acceptable to IDA, and further require that the findings be
discussed with IDA. When appropriate, the Borrower will prepare action plans to
address the issues which emerge from these studies and surveys (para 2.47);
(e) staff the GMCVP with persons with qualifications, terms of reference, and in numbers
acceptable to IDA throughout project implementation (para 2.63);
(f) carry out through the GMCVP, and require the FAS to carry out, semi-annual reviews
that will include (i) a record of Government's comrmitment to operate and maintain
public facilities rehabilitated under the Project in a manner acceptable to IDA and (ii)
a yearly work program for GMCVP (paras 2.81, & 2.85);



- 39 -
(g) carry out a midterm review of the project not less than 24 months and not more than
30 months after the project becomes effective, or when 50 percent of funds have been
disbursed, whichever comes first, after which the Government will present a plan
acceptable to IDA for the further implementation of the project (paras 2.82 & 2.87);
(h) ensure the timely provision of adequate Government counterpart funding (para 2.67);
(i) grant public access to all information from surveys and studies funded by the proceeds
of the Credit (para 2.75);
(j) carry out, and require the FAS to carry out, all procurement using standard bidding
and contract documents for the project and according to the arrangements laid out in
para 3.6 to 3.17;
(k) present to [DA audit reports for the project, as soon as possible after the end of the
Angolan financial year, but no later than six months after its completion. These audits
will report on the Project Account with a separate opinion on the use of the Special
Accounts and the statements of expenditures (SOEs). A management letter will be
part of the audits. The audits will be carried out by an independent auditing firm
(already appointed), with proper qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable
to IDA (para 3.27); and
(I) ensure that all applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit are fully
documented, except for expenditures for training, workshops, recurrent costs, and for
contracts with a value of US$100,000 or less for goods and civil works and for
consultant services under US$50,000 for firms and US$20,000 for individuals for
which reimbursements are made against SOEs (para 3.19).
C. Recommendation
5.5    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit of US$24 million equivalent.



- 40 -                                 AnntexA
Social Action Fund Project Cycle
91                          | ~~COMNWJNITIES|
identification    o
targeting                                 of needs                            .
promotion                 frnmig of com-
munity group
identfiatin                               Tetesntaio
appaisa                                by agency)
approval                                technical
_  support              mxiu
imnplementation
by communiity
beneficiaTy
assessment by
outside agency
consultation
of community           edo
groups                  year
targeting/
3          ~~~promotion.



-41-                            AnncrB
Documents on the Project File
* Decree 44/94 of October 5, 1994 creating the FAS .
* Administrative and Procedures Manuals of the FAS.
*  Acessibilidade da Popula,co a Medica,do, Luanda; Rui, Fortes & Grave, Luanda, 1994.
* Study of the Workings of the Infornal Sector in Angola, CEED, April 1995.
*  Report of the Workshop on Participatory Methods of Community Project Development,
Sumbe, Kwanza Sul, October 1994; Luanda, January 1995; Benguela, January, 1995;
Namibe, February 1995; Cabinda, February 1995;
*  Report of the First Audit of the FAS, May 1995.



- 42 -                               Anntc C
FAS Expansion Strategy Document
1. INTRODUCAO
0 FUNDO DE APOIO SOCIAL - FAS, foi criado com um caracter temporal, como uma agencia
governamental aut6noma, dotada de personalid..de juridica e gozando de autonomia financeira e
administrativa, com meios e procedimentos pr6prios, que Ihe permitam actuar com celeridade, eficiencia e
eficacia, sendo dotada, igualmente, de meios de controlo, simnples e transparentes, da uti]izagao dos recursos
colocados sob sua gestao, por forma a promover o alivio social e o combate A pobreza, viabilizando a
incorporagao da populagIo mais pobre no processo de reconstruqao e de desenvolvimento econ6mico e
social do Pais.
No acto da sua criaqao, foi-lhe atribuido um caracter nacional, o que significa dizer que o FAS devera
estender a sua acgao a todas as areas que revelem real necessidade e aos sectores s6cio-econ6micos que
contribuam para melhorar as condiSoes de vida das respectivas populaSoes. Para assegurar c alcance deste
pressuposto, foi concebida uma estrutura de gestao descentralizada, com dois niveis de decisao: um nacional
e outro provincial, com distin9ao nitida de funSoes entre a UNrDADE DE COORDEN;A(O - concepqao e
criagao de condit6es adequadas A implementagao, como a mobilizagao dos parceiros sociais nacionais e
intermacionais, a promogao, divulgacao e irnagem do Fundo, bem como a representaSao do FAS -, enquanto
que as Representaqdes Provinciais intervem, fundamentaLmente como a-,ncias locais de financiamento de
projectos comunitarios.
A adopAao deste principio de descentraliza,co na gestao do FAS, perinite criar o espago necessario a
adequagao dos objectivos gerais do Fundo a especificidade social, econ6mica, cultural e ecol6gica de cada
regiao, o que   aumentara a receptividade das populaqoes e dos parceiros sociais locais, uma vez que e
possivel ter em devida conta as suas particularidades. Por outro lado, pernmite optar por uma esrrutura flexivel
e pequena, crescendo e diversificando as suas capacidades tecnicas em funglo das necessidades que se forern
apresentando, quer localmente quer a nivel global.
Em resultado da crise econ6mica e social que Aneola atravessa, devida nAo s6 A longa duraAo da guerra e
aos efeitos da ma gestao dos recursos de que o Pais disp6e, o que se traduz num aumento vertiginoso do
numero de habitantes em situagao de pobreza e na delapidagao dos recursos financeiros e naturais, instalou-se
um clima de profunda desconfianga da populagao relativamente as iniciativas do Governo e, principalmente,
as intervenq6es de outros mecanismos financeiros, no geral muito pouco sucedidos; Numa primeira fase e ate
que o FAS tivesse a aoportunidade de evidenciar mecanismos e procedimentos claros e transparentes, o
sentimento generalizado de desconfian9a e reserva poderia ter impactos negativos na aceitaqao deste pela
populagAo.
Assim, procurou-se que nos procedimentos e mecanismos de implementaiao do Fundo estivessem bem
definidos os espagos e os objectivos e as regras da participavao dos distintos actores sociais, a adopgao de
metodos participativos na tomada de decisoes, os mecanismos de co-responsabilidade na execugao das
acqoes, a sub-contraraSio de servi9os especializados e a realizagao de auditorias semestrais.
Finalmente, o FAS e criado no limiar de mais um periodo de transiqao da guerra para a paz e num quadro de
preparagao e implementagao de um programa de estabilizaqao econ6mica, o que implica a clara defini$ao da
sua area de intervengao e o estabelecimento de complementaridades e sinergias com outras iniciativas do
govemo, nomeadamente com os programas de Mesa Redonda, de Microrealizaq6es, de Desenvolvimento
Comunitario, por um lado; e imprescindivel, tambem, o estabelecimento de relagoes de dialogo e



-43 -                                 Annex C
enquadramento com os programas de Investimentos Publicos, de apoio as Mulheres e As Crianqas, etc. Neste
sentido, tem vindo a ser preparados Protocolos de Coopera%Ao entre o Fas e as Direcc6es ou Coordenaqoes de
tais programas, os quais visam ordenar a intervenSao de cada instituicAo, visando maximizar efeitos,
eliminando duplicaAao de esfor9os e reduzindo os esforcos humnanos, materiais e financeiros para o apoio ao
reforgo das capacidades institucionais.
Assumiu-se, portanto, que apenas numa 6ptica de 'investimento humano' e equacionando devidamente os
factores: consciencializagao da sociedade civil, qualidade dos agentes instirucionais envolvidos e efectiva
articulagao das politicas, projectos e ac-oes, seria possivel alcangar resultados positivos. Dai, a criaAao do
FAS como um mecanismo Agil, flexivel, eficiente e transparente, capaz de se tomar num canal previlegiado
de mobilizaiao e alocagao de recursos, internos e externos.
2. A FASE EXPERIMENTAL DO FAS
No periodo compreendido entre JuUho e Agosto de 1994, ap6s a selec;Ao da provincia do Kwanza-Sul como
Area piloto, trabalhou-se na concepgao dos documentos legais de criagao e regulamentaqao do Fundo,
decorrendo de Aaosto a Dezembro um periodo de analise e aperfei$oamento dos mesmos, os quais foram
aprovados pelo Comitd de Coordenagao nacional em 27 de Dezembro de 1994. Contudo, e porque se
mnostraram  absolutamente necessArias, foram introduzidas algumas alterag6es de formna e de conteudo nesses
documentos, nomeadamente a separagao em dois - de gestao e de procedimrentos - do entao Manual de
Procedimentos; a preparagao de um Manual de Desembolsos. Considera-se ser necessario melhorar o
tratamento dado as questoes de 'Procurement?', pelo que esta area, tera tambem um Manual individualizado.
Entretanto, e ap6s ter-se iniciado a fase experimental no Kwanza Sul, concluiu-se que scria vantajoso testar os
mecanismos e procedimentos concebidos para o FAS, noutros contextos s6cio-econ6micos, o que conduziu A
abertura de mais tres representaqoes provinciais do FAS - Benguela, Namibe e Cabinda - todas na faixa litoral
por ser a regiao onde, apesar da guerra, se conseguiu manter um minimo de estabelidade e normalidade em
Areas significativas dos seus territ6rios. numa segunda fase, havia iniciado o trabalho de sensibilizaiao e
selecgao das equipas na Huila e no Kunene -ja na regiao planaltica e sub-planaltica do interior sul de Angola,
trabalho este que foi interrompido devido As conclus6es da Missao de Avaliaqao de Fevereiro de 1995.
A escolha destas provincias para o arranque do FAS nao resultou de um acaso nem de simpatia, embora nao
existam dados estatisticos que pudessem de uma forma clara e objectiva apontar para a sua selecgao.
Considerando que a situagIo de pobreza e generalizada, nAo s6 em termos de territ6rio mas tambem em
terrnos de grupos-alvo, os critdrios a utilizar para esta selecAao incial e para a previsao de crescimento do
FAS, teriam necessariamente de assentar na exist8ncia de um minimo de normalidade no funcionamento das
instituiqoes do Estado, do tecido empresarial, de um sector nao-governamental a afirmar-se e com condigoes
de seguranga e de circulagao minimas para se deslocar e trabalhar com as comunidades e, por conseguinte,
onde a partida e maior a receptividade dos potenciais beneficiarios a este tipo de iniciativas.
A falta de indicadores sociais para melhor quantificar e caracterizar os potenciais beneficiarios e melhor
perspectivar o tipo de interven;oes a realizar, levaram a realizar este trabalho de escolha do caminho a seguir
pelo Fas nos primeiros tempos da sua existencia, muito na base do conhecimnento e experiencia que a equipa
executiva e de colaboradores e amigos do FAS, reforqada pelos trabalhos de caracterizagao desenvolvidos
quando da realiza;ao dos 'workshops provinciais', nas reunioes dos comites, nos contactos com autoridades
locais, em reunioes com agencias governamentais e nao-governamentais, nacionais e internacionais, etc. com
as quais se tem trocado opini6es sobre a estrategia de cresciimento que a direcgIo executiva do Fas term vindo
a preparar.



-44 -                                Annex C
3. AS FASES SEGUlNTES DO FAS
Assim, utilizando os indicadores de gestAo e de 'performance' anteriorrnente estabelecidos para as equipas do
FAS e aplicando os conhecimentos da situa9ao do pais e da sua evoluqao, conceberam-se os seguintes
quadros resumo de alargamento das representaq6es do FAS para os 4 anos iniciais do FAS, tratando com
maior pormenor os primeiros 3 a 4 semestres, deixando sempre em aberto a possibilidade de actualizar tal
previsAo com a introdu9Ao de dados novos, no inicio de cada semestre, durante o qual devera ser executada a
estrategia de crescimento para o semestre seguinte. Isto, per-mite, por exemplo, que os resultados dos
inqueritos actualemente em curso possam ser utilizados A medida que foram sendo disponibilizados.
Estao a ser preparados 'perfis s6cio-econ6micos' das provincias onde jA existem representacocs do FAS e
naquelas onde se espera chegar ate ao fim do 1P semestre, ou sejam, Huila, Kunene e Luanda(s).
Esta tiltima, devido A elevada densidade demografica, sera tratada nao como uma unidade mas sim como um
conjunto de tres unidades aut6nomas umas das outras, resultantes do agrupamento de 2 a 3 municipios
vizinhos e dando prioridade as regides peri-urbanas, a saber:
V Viana, Kilamba Kiaxi e Rangel
* Kakuaku, Sambizanga e Cazenga
* Samba, Ingombotas e Maianga,
o que pode ser melhor compreendido pela consulta do mapa em anexo.
Durante o 1 semestre de implementago do FAS devera ser preparada e discutida a estrategia a implementar
no periodo seguinte, seja do ponto de vista da cobertura geografica, seja do ponto de vista das 'alianqas' e
parcerias a estabelecer. Esta estrategia deve ser aprovada pela Reuniao de Directores do FAS (com carActer
semestral), depois de submetida A analise dos Comitds Provinciais e Nacional.
Importa referir que, para aldm dos criterios atras referidos, a abertura de novos escrit6rios provinciais do FAS
estA condicionada A avaliacao positiva do desempenho do Fundo Ia onde ja estA instalado e, de uma mane ira
geral, ao alcance dos objectivos globalmente definidos, pelo que a responsabilizacAo e o empenho colectivos
sao condic6es essenciais para o bom sucesso desta iniciativa e pelo alargamento das suas perspectivas e
capacidades de intervenSao.
A dinamica de execucao do Fundo de Apoio Social (FAS) nos uItimos meses da Fase Exeprimental e
prenuncio de um nivel de desembolsos bastante superior ao programado, o que significa dizer que se preve
que os valores programados para desembolsos ao longo de quatro (4) anos, poderao ser engajados num
periodo de tempo bem mais reduzido. Assim, decidiu-se realizar uma paragem para reflexlo na expansao do
FAS, no 4 semestre, e programar para esta altura o 'mid term review'.
0 objectivo c perrmitir uma profunda avaliacao dos resultados e da performance obtida atd ai pelo FAS e a sua
plena incorporacao na reprogramatao dos 4 semestres seguintes, a partir de uma definiqIo estratdgica de
base: estudar a possibilidade de comeqar a trabalhar com Unidades Regionais (em lugar das provinciais),
agrupando provincias com menor densidade populacional e menor capacidade de absorrao, a partir de
factores s6cio-econ6micos e culturais afins ou outros factores como meios de comunica.1o, por exemplo.
Esta pratica permitiria uma minimizacao dos custos de instalaSlo e de funcionamnento e a melhor utilizasio
dos recursos para o financiamento de projectos, para aldm de uma mais rapida cobertura do espago nacional,
devido ao tempo que leva a montar uma unidade (cerca de 3 meses).
Luanda, Julho de 1995
A DIRECCAO EXECUTIVA



-45-                                      Annex D
FAS Administrative Structure
COMITE
COORDENACAO
NACIONAL
_~~~~~ I
DIREC TOR
AJUNTO|
FAS  FAS          FAS                FAS          (   ~~~~~~~~FAS        FAS
FROVNCIAS  POVINIAlS POINACEIAPRAVINCIA           ROVINCIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -X



- 46 -                          Annex D
The National Board of Overseers (Comite de Coordena,cdo Nacional)
This is the governing body of the FAS. Membership includes representatives of Govemment (6 of
12 seats); NGOs (2), churches (2) and private sector organizations such as the Chamber of
Commerce (2). The chairman of the National Board of Overseers is the Executive Director of the
NCU. Its responsibilities and authority include:
(a)    To define FAS policy and lines of action. To approve the general objectives and
the priority programs in every region as proposed by the Executive Director of
NCU. To approve the quarterly implementation plans presented by NCU;
(b)    To monitor and evaluate all FAS activities, management and administration;
(c)    To promote and guarantee the relations of the FAS with extemal institutions, that
is, Govemment, the donors, the NGO community and the private sector;
(d)    To define the timing and criteria of expansion of FAS activities. To decide on the
opening and closing of FAS Provincial Offices;
(e)    To hire Provincial and National directors and deputy-directors as proposed by the
Ministry of Planning;
(f)    To approve the semi-annual budget and the activity report;
(g)    To order the NCU to organize the audits and to follow the recommendations
formulated in the audits and evaluations; and
(h)    To revise and approve the Administrative and Procedures Manuals and any other
documents related to the functioning of the FAS as proposed by NCU.
The National Board of Overseers will convene at minimum once every three months. It will be
convened by the Executive Director every three months, or more often if needed, or if requested by
one-third of the members. A quorum is needed for a meeting to take place. A quorum is defined as
at least two-thirds of the members. Decisions will be taken on the basis of simple majority (50%
plus one). In case of a hung vote, the Executive Director has the deciding vote.
The National Coordination Unit (Unidade de Coordenaqdo)
The National Coordination Unit (NCU) is headed by the Executive Director and the Deputy-
Director. Both are named by the Ministry of Planning and Economic Coordination as proposed by
the National Board of Overseers. The NCU role, functions and responsibilities are as follows:
(a)    To ensure the administrative, managerial and financial functioning of the FAS. To
prepare quarterly budgets and monthly implementation reports. To maintain FAS
resources and keep FAS property titles and values. To approve or reject projects
over US$20,000 or beyond the technical competence of the Provincial Office To
decide on sub-project cancellation. To open the accounts needed for the
functioning of the FAS. To perform all personnel management, including
contracting or firing staff (excluding those stipulated in point (e));



- 47 -                            Annex D
(b)    To study, prepare and submit to the National Board of Overseers all documents
needed for the functioming of that body. This includes, review of legislation and
regimens, budget plans, policy lines and strategies, quarterly or annual
implementation plans, revised versions of the Administrative and Procedures
Manuals, dossiers for the opening and closing of Provincial Offices, dossiers for
expansion or reduction of activities, results of audits, dossiers for cancellation of
projects;
(c)    To represent the FAS to third parties and Government day-to-day;
(d)    To monitor the activities of the Provincial Offices; and,
(e)    To organize promotional activities.
The Provincial Board of Overseers (Comite de Coordena,cdo Provincial)
The Provincial Board of Overseers is an advisory body to the Provincial Offices of the FAS.
Its composition includes provincial representatives from relevant ministnes and civil organizations,
churches, NGOs and FAS provincial staff. Its role, functions and responsibilities are:
(a)    To inform and motivate the community and to promote the FAS;
(b)    To propose regional development policies and detennine regional strategies and
priorities. The FAS will use these as a framework for its activities;
(c)    To ensure the link between the Provincial Authorities and the FAS;
(d)    To evaluate the impact of the FAS activities at the Provincial level;
(e)    To advise the Provincial Office on its activities;
(f)    To assist the Provincial Offices in desk appraisal;
(g)    To ensure sustainability of the projects; and
(h)    To ensure the accomplishment of the financial agreements on the part of the
communities and sponsors.
The Provincial Board of Overseers will convene at a minimum once every three months. It will be
convened by the director of the Provincial Office every three months, or more often if needed, or
when requested by one-third of the members. A quorum is needed for a meeting to take place. A
quorum is defined as at least two-tirds of the members. Decisions will be taken on the basis of
simple majority (50 percent plus one). In case of a hung vote, the director of the Provincial Office
has the deciding vote.



- 48 -                            AnnexD
Provincial Offices.
Each Provincial Office is staffed with a minimum of:
(a)    1 director
(b)    1 civil ngineer2l
(c)    1 computer specialist
(d)    1 assistant accountant
(e)    1 administrative assistant
(f)    1 driver
The role, functions and responsibilities of the Provincial Offices are as follows:
(a)    To prepare quarterly financial plans and implementation plans;
(b)    To stimulate communities, NGOs, churches and other civil associations to preset
projects;
(c)     To appraise and approve projects not over US$20,000. To refer to the National
Directorate any projects estimated over US$20,000, any projects that are
technically too complex to be properly appraised at the provincial level, and any
projects over which a conflict exists;
(d)    To technically support the sponsors (agencies or communities) in the preparation
of proposals and in the implementation of projects;
(e)    To sign contracts with executing agents. To monitor implementation of activities
and to ensure that the executing agencies respect the contracts;
(f)    To prepare mornhly activity reports;
(g)    To direct and convene the Provincial Board of Overseers;
(h)    To propose project cancellation to the national level; and
(i)    To control the Provincial accounts and to sign checks to the suppliers.
21     When the number of sub-projects under implementation increases, the civil engineer will be
reinforced by one or two staff assistants.



- 49 -                           Annec E
Eligibility Criteria for Sub-projects
During desk and field appraisal, these criteria will be used to decide on funding of a proposal:
General criteria:
* The sub-project should serve the need of a substantial part of the community.
* Total costs should not be larger than US$50,000.
* The community should contribute between 10 to. 20 percent of the total cost, in cash
or kind.
* Total contribution of the FAS to the sub-project cost will be 50 percent.
* Verification of the arrangement of full financing for the remainder of the sum.
* Verification of communal or public ownership of the land on which any social/
economic or productive infrastructure construction/ rehabilitation is planned.
Institutional criteria:
*  The existence of a community group (nucleo comunittirio) recognized by the FAS or
agencia de enquadramento, approved by the community.
*  The existence of consensus between the implementing agency and the community
group on sub-project contents and need.
* The existence of a established management system for the project, including directing,
implementing and supervising, and maintenance.
* The existence of a formal contract describing the two preceding criteria.
a Adequate performance of the sponsor in previous sub-projects
Social criteria:
 Verification of the low income level of the beneficiaries of the sub-project.
-  Demonstrated improvement of conditions by the sub-project for the beneficiaries.
* Verification of engagement of the community in all stages of sub-project from
conceptualization to evaluation.
Economic criteria:
* Demonstrated correspondence of the sub-project with provincial and national
development policies.
*  Verification of the cost-benefit relationship and of the costlnumber of beneficiaries.
Technical criteria:
*  Correspondence with technical criteria established by the relevant line Ministries.
* Verification of the use of simple and appropriate technology.
* The use of community labor.
* Presentation of a plan for the maintenance of the sub-project.
In addition there are specific criteria for different areas of interest. These can be found in full in the
Procedures Manual which is included in the project file.



NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STATISTICS
ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Cabinet of DirectoT            Administrative                      Demographic Analysis
Boad       lCenter
Cabinet for Monitoring
Living Conditions of the
Population
(GMCVP)
Human, Financial               Economic                 Price Statistics          Information and                Current
and Equipment                  Growth                     Division               Dissemination               Economic and
Resources                   Monitoring                                            Division                    Financial
Division                    Division                                                                         Statistics
Division
National                 Technical Support                                   Current Social
Accounts                    and Statistics                                      Statistics
Division                     Standards                                         Division
Division



GMCVP ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
Committee for
StatisticsIN
on Population's                               Administrative Board
Coving d                                President of the Board
Director of INE                           Technical Committee
for Selection and
Assessment of Proposal and
Studies
/Pool of Short-\
Head of the Cabine for Monitoring Living Conditions                                       term Local and
International
nit Management Team: Accounting and                                                   nsultants and
Administration                                                               Experts
Statitics Information System:      Project and Policy                          lDtBase and Documentio
Surveys               Mntoring and Targeting                  Study Progiram                    Dissemination
Assessment of current System          Activities
Tasks                         Tasks                               Themes                            Tasks
Statistical Household Surveys:  Project Impact Studies          Poverty Assessment                  Using Geographic
Priority Survey I              Policy Inpact Studies            Expansion of Informal Sector         Management System (GMS)
Incomes and Expenditure        Plc   patSuisUrban Expansion
Priority Survey 2              usmg:                            Rural Development                      Gathering of data and
Community Survey               Beneficiary Assessment           Rehabilitation of Rural Areas         Information on Poverty
Other Surveys                  and Partiapatory                 SmaDholders                             Setting of data base
Preparation            approaches                       Environment                          Updating of the data base
Data Collection          Targeting for Project and        Children's/Women's Situation              Dissemination
Data Processing          Policy                           Dislocation/Relocation of Refugees
Gathering Information on        Information gathering          Rehabilitation ofthe Military
statistics produced by other            Analysis                            Tasks
institutions                   Reporting               Selection and hiring of consultants
Analysis                                                  Administration of funding
Reports                                                     Follow-up of execution
Dissemination of findings
Organization of seminars



- 52 -                                                Annex G
Poverty Monitoring Component Budget
ANGOLA POVERTY MONITORING SYSTEM                  _                   _  .    .
_   __   _ESTIMATED  BUDGET
I ES                      l                              CS
1,996               1,997                1,998                1,999                Total
Unit cost   Qty.Hm     Total   Qty.Htm      Total   Oty.Hlm      Totbl   Q;y.H/m      Total   Oty.mnm    Total
CABINET                                        95    188,440       136    204,200       133    161,200       133    166,200       494    710,040
1. 1. 1 Cabinet(Iocal consuhtants)  2,000      57   114,000         57    114,0001      57   114,000         57   114,000        228   456.000
1.2.1 Cabinet (TA)               15,000         2    30,000          2    30,000          2    30,000         2    30,000          8   120,000
3. Support staff                    50         24      1,200        24      1,200        24      1,200       24      1 200        96      4.800
6. Guards                           20         12       240         50      1,000        50     1.000        50       1,000       162     3,240
1. Computers and auxiliaries                          15,000                                                                             15,000
2. Photocopier                                         5,000                                                                              5,000
3. Fumnure                                            5,000                                                                _              5,000
4. Vehicles                      25,000                              2    50,000                                               _         50,000
1. Softwares                                          10,000                                   10,000                5,000               25,000
3. Office supplies                                     5,000               5,D00                3,000                3,000                16,000
4. Computer supplies                                   3,000               3,000                2.000                2,000                10,000
SURVEYS                                       344    278,200       477    361,900     1,414    296,400       468    166,600     2,673   1,102,000
1.1.2 Supervisors                 2,000         6     12,Q00       30    60,D00         15    30,000          6     12,000        57   114.000
1.2.2 Short Term (TA)            15,000         2    30,000         3    45,000          3    45,000          2    30,000         10   150,000
1.2.3 Long Term (TA)              8,500        12   102,000          6    51,000                                                  181  153,000
2.1 Field Staff                    150        300    45,000        340    51,000      1,236    185,400      290    43,500       2,1661  324,900
5. Drivers                          50         24      1,200        78     3,900        160     8,000        160     8,0n0       422    21,100
6.1 Surveys                          0          0     30.000         0     40.000         0         0          0     30.000         0    100,000
5. Molorcycles                    1,500                             20    30,000 __                                                      30,000
2. Surveys supplies                                   10,000               10,000               5.000                S,000               30,000
1. Maintenance/vehicles                               3,000                62000                3.000                2,000               14.000
3. Fuel                               _                5,000              20,000C               5,000               15,000               45.000
5. Per diem                                           10,000               15,000               5,000 ___           15,000 _             45,000
6. Travel subsistence                                 30,000              30,000 D              10,000               5,000               75,000
STUDIES                                       1241   288,600       122    241,600       121    224,600       122    228,600       464,   9a3,000
1.1.3 Studies(studyfund)          2,000        23    46,000         22    44,000        22    44,000         23    46,000         90   180,000
1.2.4 Studies(lnlernational TA)  115,1000       5    75,D00         3    45,000          3    45,000          3    45.000         14   210.000
2.2 Studies (field staff)          150         90     13,500        90    13,500        90    13,500         90    13,500        360     54.000
|1.2 Studies (training)                          | 20,0001                 10,00C               10,000,              10,000          | 50,ODO
2. National seminars             10,000         2    20,000          3    30,000          3    30,000         3    30,000               110,000
3. Study trips                   10,000         3    30.000          3    30,000          2    20,000         2    20,000            |  100,000
4. Fellowship                _                  1    60,000          1    40,000          1    40,000          1    40,000 _            180,000
1. Advertisement             ____|    4,000                                5,000           |    4,000                4,000          1   17,000
2. Printing documents        ____|_10,000                                  14,000 _             8,000               10,000               42,000
3. Prnting of reports        ____|   10,000                               10,000               10.000|              10,000'              40,000
OPERATING COSTS                                        4a,267        0+   115,880        0o    42,6061         0     64,810         a    114,000
5. Paper                   r_        T__               5,000               5,000                3.000                2.000               15,000
2. Maintenance/computers     ___                      2,000           |    2,000                2,000                1,000           I    7,000
7. Communication                                      3,000 _              3,000                3,000                3.000 _             12,000
8. Transportation                                 _          ______       60.000                                    20.0001              80.000
G." DiveraSt Imprevus"                           1   38,257 _             43,8801          |   34,5051              28,810|             145,452
GRAND TOTAL                                    631   803,3971      734    921,4801    1,668    724,606       713    605,010o    3,631  3,D84,492



- 53 -                               AnnexH
Project Performance and Impact Indicators
The following key indicators have been chosen to permit the IDA to follow the Project's
implementation and to assess its developmental impact:
Key Performance Indicators
1996          1997          1998          1999         2000
No. provinces covered                             6             8             10            12           14
No. of sub-projects completed                    171           435           548           712           438
Number of beneficiaries                        85,500        217,500       274,000       356,000       219,000
Avg. project cost/ beneficiary              Max US$10   MaxUS$10   MaxUS$10   MaxUS$10  MaxUS$10
Avg. Incremental costs/ benefic/year         Max US$1    Max US$1    Max US$1    Max US$I   Max US$1
% of sub-projects operational after each year   100%          100%          100%          100%          100%
Numberof studiesfundedbythestudy                  1             2             3             3             3
program
HEIS'                                        X--------   --X----X
IPCVDII2                                                                  x---------   ---------x
CS3                                                                                                       x
Notes: HEIS, IPCVP n and CS are acronyms for the national surveys. Compliance with planned schedule will be
the measure of performance. 1: HEIS (Expenditure and Income Survey). 2: IPCVD II (Second Priority Survey on
Living Conditions) 3: CS (Community Survey). For these the project timetables provide these indicators. In
assessing the quality and efficiency of the work, the following documents will be found useful.
For survey preparation: i)sampling design and sampling execution report; ii) questionnaire and instructions manual
for interviewer and supervisor; iii) data entry program and instructions; iv) manual for data entry clerks; and, v)
report of the pilot survey
For survey implementation: 1) timing of the operations in accordance with the project timetable; ii) survey
implementation report; iii) quality assessment report of the survey results; and, iv) main report of the survey result.
For the Study Program, progress at the technical level will be measured through the clearances and quality
assessments of the studies by the Bank.
In the following pages a more comprehensive list of indicators linking input, output and outcome (impact) of the
project to its objectives is shown For FAS the information needed for these indicators will be provided by the MIS
system and the results of planned annual surveys and audits. For the Poverty Monitoring component, it will include
data on the Government's budget and analysis off Govemment policies and strategies. The use of this list for the
midterm review will be discussed with the teams and Government.



-54-                                       AnnexH
Project impact indicators (FAS)
Objectives and Priorities    Input indicators  Process and Output          Outcome indicators
indicators
Prolect develoipment
No. of regional FAS  % of sub-project approved
Expansion of the FAS     offices opened        and evolution over time
Correct management of the   No of staff recruited  Financial audit:
FAS                      and trained           running cost as % of
disbursements per sector, per
Donor contributions    province
(per sector, per
province)             % Change in running cost as
% of disbursements, per
Disbursement profile   sector, per province.- US$/
beneficiary per sector
No of studies financed
Propram Implementation
a) To improve access to  Number of sub-        No of infrastructure        % of the rehabilitated
services for the poor    projects financed     rehabilitated in a FAS zone    social infrastructures that
through the rehabilitation                                                 provide good qualty
and outfitting of        Number of sub-        Average No & % of           services (as measured by
infrastructure           projects completed    population benefited.       standards defined by
(health, education, water                      Average processing time     sectors)
and sanitation, economic &   Disbursement profile   from applications to:
productive infrastructure,   for total projects  appraisal, implementation,    % of rehabilitated
per sector)                                     completion and hand-over   economic & productive
infrastructures still in use
Technical audit:           after 1 year
quality of rehabilitated or
constructed infrastructure.  % of the community using
the rehabilitated
infrastructures by age and
sex by income distribution
b) To generate temporary    same as above      Average No of workdays of    % of the community
employment for the poor                        employment.                 members gender
through the rehabilitation                                                 desegregated by income
and outfitting of                              Average processing time     level employed through
infrastructure                                 from applications to:       FAS funded sub-projects
(health, education, water                      appraisal, implementation,
and sanitation, economic &                     completion and hand-over    % of added income through
productive infrastructure,                     (same as above)             FAS income generating
per sector)                                                                projects used to improve
family welfare status
c) To generate additional    Number of sub-    No & % of population        % of added income through
income for the poor      projects financed     benefited per sub-project   FAS income generating
through revenue gathering                                                  projects used to improve
sub-projects.            Number of sub-        Average processing time     family welfare status. No
projects completed   from applications to:       of small businesses started.
appraisal, implementation  % of small businesses
Disbursement profile                             started and run by women
for total projects    ___I



-55-                                     Anngx H
Project impact indicators (GMCVP)
Objectives and Priorities   Input indicators     Process and Output       Outcome indicators
indicators
Prolect develovment
Sustainability of the   Disbursement profile     Annual financial audit   Number of studies
GMCVP                                                                     initiated by other institutes
and ministries.
% of funding from other
sources.
Proeram implementation
a) To provide a better  Disbursement profile     IPCVD I published,       Comprehensive poverty
understanding of the main                        HEIS, IPCVD II and CS     alleviation strategies
causes of poverty in order                       implemented and          designed, making
to help formulate poverty                        completed on schedule     extensive use of results of
alleviation strategies and                                                 all studies.
adequate policies for                            Production of Poverty
socioeconomic                                    Profiles on schedule      The percentage of studies
development                                                               used in policy decisions,
Number of studies       project designs, project
implemented by GMCVP   evaluations or project
m study program         improvement
Number of studies funded   Number of workshops and
under study program.     seminars in which
GMCVP staff presented
Number of studies       papers
initiated by other institutes
and ministries.          The percentage of studies
approved by the partners.
b) To enhance the capacity  Number of days of    IPCVD published,         Studies technically of
of Angolan institutions to   technical assistance  HEIS, IPCVD Il and CS  good quality,
collect and analyze     rendered for training    implemented and
poverty reblted data.                            completed on schedule    Number of Bank
Number of Bank technical                         clearances on studies and
supervision missions    Number of local          reports.
(minimal 3/survey)      consultants trained to
improve their skills.
Number of staff that
participated on study trips



- 56 -                       Annex I
Supervision Schedule
Date                 Objective            Mission Members
Mar 1996             Launch mission        Task manager, disbursement expert,
procurement expert
Oct. 1996            Semi-annual review   Task manager, civil engineer
Mar 1997             Semi-annual review    Task manager, sociologist/evaluation expert
Oct. 1997            Semi-annual review   Task manager, civil engineer
Mar 1998             Midterm review       Task manager, procurement and disbursement
expert, social funds expert, economist
Oct. 1998            Semi-annual review   Task manager, civil engineer
Mar 1999             Semi-annual review   Task manager, sociologist/evaluation expert
Oct. 1999            Semi-annual review   Task manager, civil engineer
Mar 2000             Closing review       Task manager, sociologist/evaluation expert



-57 -                               Annex J
Reporting Requirements
FAS auarterlv relorts
(a)   Introduction
(b)    Administration and staff
(c)   Information management
(d)    Disbursement sununary and financial statement
(e)    Program implementation
* hitroduction
* Identification
v Field appraisal
* Co-operation with provincial authorities and sponsors
(f)    Project development
* Growth
* Donor contributions
* By province
* By sector
* Physical implementation
(g)    Results of monitorng system (see Annex G)
(h)    Objectives for the next quarter
(i)    Problems pending
FAS annul reports
(a)    Financial audit
(b)    Technical audit
(c)   Impact evaluation
(d)    Consultants and results



- 58 -                             Annec J
The GMCVP annual refport
(a)   Introduction
(b)    Administration and staff
(c)    Disbursement summary, financial statement and summary of four
quarterly financial reports.
(d)    Program implementation
* Compliance with work plan
* Dissemination of results
* Specific targeted monitoring program
(e)    Project development
* New studies foreseen
- New independently-funded studies foreseen
* Contacts with external orgarizations
(f)    Result of monitoring system
(g)    Results of financial audits
(h)    Summary of technical evaluations
(i)    Consultants and results
(j)    Problems pending
(k)    Objectives and work program for the coming year



- 59-                                Annex K
(Draft) Terms of Reference Beneficiary Assessment FAS
L BACKGROUND
0 Governo de Angola criou, atraves do Decreto n 44/94 de 28 de Outubro de 1994. o FUNDO DE APOIO
SOCIAL - FAS, com o co-financiamento do Banco Mundial. 0 FAS, componente do Projecto de Accao
Social (PAS), constitui-se conio uma agencia de financiamento dotada de autonomia j]uridica,
administrativa e financeira, visando a mobiliza,do de recursos - internos e externos - destinados a
financiarem projectos identificados e priorizados pelas comunidades e por elas executados, com ou sem o
apoio de Agencias de Enquadramento'. como ONG's. Instituiqoes Religiosas, Associac6es, Pequenas
Empresas, etc.
Ha dois componentes fundamentais na abordagem do FAS que importa ressaltar; sao eles: (a) a lideran,ca,
pela comunidade. do processo de identificaqco. preparaSao e implementacao dos projectos. que irao
responder as suas necessidades mais prioritarias. Reforcar a capacidade de intervenqao das comunidades a
comeiando pelo esforco organizativo necessario para conduzir todo este processo e pelo assumir da
propriedade dos projectos, sao principios essenciais do FAS. (b) Mecanismos de desembolso expeditos, por
forma a assegurar que os pedidos das comunidades s3o respondidos de uma forma oportuna. Por forma a
permitir ao FAS ser eficiente e efectivo, ele sera conduzido por uma estrutura de gestdo aut6noma,
descentralizada, com dois niveis de decisdo, com representa,ces provinciais para facilitar a implementacao
e a monitorizaqao dos sub-projectos. 0 Fundo desenvolvera, portanto, procedimentos de desembolso e de
aquisig6es bastante flexiveis. apropriados a sua implementag5o ao nivel local.
Uma vez que a participacao comunitaria constitui um principio de destaque, o projecto ira tentar ter em
devida conta os pontos de vista dos potenciais beneficiarios ao nivel das comunidades, no desenho da
constituiqao do Fundo e na monitorizacao da implementaqao do FAS, atravds de una serie de 'consultas
sistematicas aos beneficiarios/clientes'. Pretende-se que este  exercicio  de 'consultas sistematicas'
constitua o primeiro passo nesta serie de consultas locais, desenhadas para preencher algunas fathas de
informag6es necessirias a preparacao do projecto. Pretende-se, ainda, que este exercicio constitua a
primeira fase nos componenets parcitipativos de um Fundo Social, conduzindo e orientando o desenho de
um sistema de monitorizacao participativa (avaliacao pelos beneficiarios), por um lado, e aos componentes
participativos do projecto, pelo outro.
H. OBJECTIVOS DAS CONSULTAS SISTEMATICAS AOS BENEFICIARIOS/CL[ENTES
Usando uma mistura de metodos quantitativos e qualitativos, este exercicio de consultas sistematicas
pretende solicitar uam visao cruzada de caracter s6cio-econ6mico de potenciais beneficiarios ao nivel das
comunidades, preenchendo falhas em informac6es - chave para a implementacao do projecto, do ponto de
vista da comunidade. Estima-se que o trabalho de campo ocupe um periodo de cerca de 3 semanas,
cobrindo cerca de 16 comunidades (urbans e rurais). As tres areas-chave identificadas pela equipa que
preparou este projecto serao descritas seguidamente e constituem a base das quest6es contidas no Guia
Pratico.
ELi - Organizardes comunitirias e redes institucionais
* quais sao as lideranqas existentes e as estruturas organizativas ao nivel comunitario
* quais sao os seus pontos fortes e as suas fraquezas



-60 -                                 AnnexK
* pode alguma dessas organizac6es gerir/gerar um projecto
* quais sao as ligac6es corm outras organizac6es (a) dentro da comunidade, (b) localmente. C ao nivel de
um municipio (organizac6es religiosas, ONG's. etc)
* qual a forca relativa e a importancia destas redes
II.ii - Participacao/Contribuicao da Comunidade
* o que e que se entende por participacao
* participa a acomunidade, no momento, em algum projecto (qual, como)
* houve alguma participacao anterior (como, em que, com que resultados)
* quais serao as areas prioritarias para a participacao da comunidade
* de que formas estarao as comunidades preparadas para participar/contribuir, se sim como, com que
montantes e como encora1i-los a fazer isso
ILiii - Capacidade 'Tecnica' da Comunidade
* que pessoas preparadas/especializadas existem na comunidade (quem, corn que formacao)
* que experiencia existe na comunidade na gestao de fundos (sejam extemos por exemplo com ONG's.
sejam internos, por exemplo, mercado local)
* como ira a comunidade gerir os fundos do projecto; de que e que eles irao precisar
* como ira a comunidade adquirir materiais ou capacidade tecnica nao disponivel localmente
M. AMBITO DO TRABALHO
Espera-se qu os Consultores trabalhem em equipa ao longo das tres fases do exercicio (planeamento,
trabalho de campo, analise), abaixo detaliadas.
JILi - Planeamento (5 dias de trabalho)
Durante esta fase, a equipa participara num 'workshop' de treinamento suplementar, centrado nos metodos
de PRA para analises institucionais. Este Guia Pratico deverA ser revisto e testado no terreno, por um
periodo de dois dias, sob a supervisao tdcnica da equipa do Banco Mundial. Serao utilizados diversos
metodos de recolha de dados, incluindo as simples tecnicas quantitativas de levantamentos e os metodos
PRA, tais como as entrevistas semi-estruturadas com  infonnadores-chave, diagramas institucionais,
contagens e posic5es matriciais (?) . Os consultores deverao dominar o uso destas ferramentase a sua
aplicabilidade is areas a serem abrangidas pelo exercicio. 0 Guia Pratico seri testado em comunidades
rurais e urbanas e emendado de acordo com os resultados de tais testes.
Os locais no terreno serao seleccionados nesta fase e membros da equipa escolhidos iniciarao os contactos
com as comunidades destacadas com o apoio da equipa de prepara,ao do projecto.
mii - Trabalho de Campo/ImplementaSao (aproximadamente 21 dias de trabalho)
O exercicio de 'consultas sistematicas aos beneficiarios/clientes' seri implementado nas comunidades
escolhidas pelas equipas de trabaiho. Participarao grupos representativos da comunidade, incluindo
personalidades-chave das comunidades, tais como autoridades tradicionais, representantes das mulheres e
dos jovens. Os resultados destes agrupamentos s6cio-econ6micos serao, entao, triangulados. A supervisao
do trabalho no terreno sera levada a cabo por elementos tecnicos da equipa do Banco Mundial.



-61 -                                Annex K
ml.iii - AnaIlise/Prepara ao do Relatorio Final (7 dias de trabalho)
Sera preparado um Relat6rio Final baseado nos resulatdos do trabalho de campo. 0 relat6rio sera produzido
pela equipa. Espera-se que cada equipa de dois elementos contribua para o trabalho de preparac,o do
Relat6rio Final, apresententando a equipa os resultados do seu trabalho de campo, escrito e trabalhado.
para facilitar a analise final e a colagem' dos resultados. 0 Relat6rio Final devera ser apresentado no
espaco de um mes.



-62 -                                AnnexL
Annual Financial, Technical and lmpact Evaluations
Background
The use of participatory and qualitative research methods and rapid rural or urban appraisals is
becoming increasingly common. Many donors, NGOs and Government ministries are now using
participatory and qualitative research techniques to ensure that project interventions are more
closely attuned to the needs and preferences of the poor. Beneficiary Assessments are used in this
project to monitor and evaluate FAS sub-project activities from the perspective of the beneficiaries.
Assessments will be carried out at regular intervals from 1995 onwards and results will be fed into
the improvement of FAS procedures and systems. Material from the Beneficiary Assessments
may be used by other donor agencies and NGOs.
Using Beneficiary Assessments has shown that participatory research methods provide a highly
valuable complement to more conventional forms of program monitoring and poverty analysis and
contribute to community empowerment in the context of sub-project management. For an
overview, see Table 1.
Table 1. Annual Surveys to complement financial audits, technical reviews and supervision
missions.
Area of interest           Target       Date of survey     Comments
*  Indirect beneficiaries:              Aug. 1996          Will be used in Bank review
number & impact on
employment and incomes
.  Impact on social                     Aug. 1996          In particular nutrition, school
indicators:                                             enrolment (for girls)
Ongoing priority survey will
establish baseline
*  Qualitative survey of                Aug. 1996          Survey of community members,
beneficiary satisfaction                                nucleos comunitarios, agencias de
and comments                                           enquadramento
Technical reviews will be used to assess the quality of the sub-projects. An important part of these
reviews will be assessment of the sustainability of sub-projects. Government's contribution is to be
reviewed, including the financial contribution and assurances of physical and human resources.
The first of these reviews is planned for August 1996.
Financial audits will include tests of the accounting records, verification of assets and liabilities, a
Statement of Expenditures, a management letter, and other auditing procedures considered
necessary.



- 63 -                             AnnexM
GMCVP's Personnel Terms of Reference
Terms of Reference
Head of Office for Monitorin- the Living Conditions
To be advertised and short-listed for selection
The Head of GMCVP is responsible for implementing the GMCVP's work program. The Head
will work under the supervision of (and in collaboration with) the Director of INE and the Sub-
Committee for Information on Living Conditions (SCILC).
The Head will:
(a)    establish the Office of GMCVP, selecting and hiring staff to execute the work
program;
(b)    prepare a detailed work program based on the project description to be submitted
to the INE Administrative Board and SCILC, to comply with the GMCVP's terms
of reference as described in the project document;
(c)    ensure timely delivery of outputs and effective management of GMCVP's
activities;
(d)   represent GMCVP in meetings and activities related to Poverty Reduction
Actions;
(e)    contact and investigate donors of funds to the Study Program;
(f)   report regularly (as requested in the project document) on the activities and
accomplishments of the GMCVP;
(g)   review and present to the INE's Board and SCILC requests for study, and initiate
and participate in the selection and agreement process;
(h)    work closely with the administrative manager of the GMCVP. The Head of
GMCVP should be aware of all administrative matters and be able to answer any
administrative problem faced by the Office;
(i)    provide technical advice for improving data collection and analysis to researchers
and institutions in charge of carrying out surveys and studies;
(j)    provide regular supervision for survey work in the field;
The Head of GMCVP should be a qualified and well-trained statistician with wide experience in
research using high level statistics and experienced in survey implementation. The candidate
should be a University Graduate, (Ph.D. preferable). The candidate should provide the Selection
Board with copies of research publications or documented work for review. Experience in carrying
out and analyzing household budget surveys and previous study of population living conditions and
economics will be a prerequisite.
Terms of Reference
Administrative Manaeer
The Administrative Manager of GMCVP will manage all administrative and financial aspects of
the GMCVP's activities through the Management Unit. The Manager will second the Head of
GMCVP and assist in all matters related to the management of the Office. In the absence of the
Head of GMCVP, the Manager will act as Head of GMCVP and will be in charge of relationship
with donors and funding agencies of the Office. The Manager will ensure that all donors



- 64 -                             AnnexM
procedures for procurement and disbursement are strictly followed. With the assistance of an
accountant, the Manager will keep all accounting documents and activities up-to-date and will be
responsible for all auditing operations. The Manager will prepare regular auditing reports of
GMCVP's activities (as requested in the project document). The Manager will be responsible for
all bidding consultations.
Because of the nature of the work and the strong link with research, the Manager should be a
trained Business Manager and university graduate in economics, science or statistics with previous
experience of management in the public or private sector. The Manager should be familiar with
the use of computer software for accounting, statistics and text processing. The Manager should
be dynamic, and be willing to travel through the country to supervise field workers during field
operations.
The Manager will be hired on the basis of a six-month contract, after which performance will be
evaluated and renewal will be considered.



- 65-                            Annex N
Training Program
FAS
Procurement and Disbursement
Every six months, the FAS will organize a six-day workshop on procurement and disbursement
practices. The session will be attended by FAS staff, specially those from newly-opened offices,
and representatives of community groups, local authorities and NGOs cooperating with FAS. The
aim will be to make people familiar with these procedures, hear their experiences and discuss
problems encountered during implementation. Methodology: Theory and practice, using examples
of day-to-day work.
The FAS staff will attend intemational workshops and seminars to learn experience with social
action funds from other countries and to present the FAS work. One trip a year for two persons
has been budgeted.
Poverty Monitoring
The objective of the training program is to improve the skills of GMCVP and INE staff trough: on-
the-job training, study trips, seminars, workshops, fellowship and direct technical assistance.
Training areas include: fieldwork (data collection and processing), computer programming, survey
design and organization, data analysis, economics and management. At the end of the program, the
staff will have acquired skills that will: (i) improve the capacity of the Institute and the Government
as a whole; and (ii) assist the development of a local critical mass of researchers and specialists
able to animate a national poverty monitoring system. Candidates for training will have to be
directly involved in project implementation.
Survey Implementation
Workshops will be held before each survey. The workshops will be targeted to:
(a) Enumerators or field and data entry staff. The workshop will familiarize them with
interview techniques, questionnaires, objectives contents and, concepts and definitions
used in the survey. Duration: two to three weeks. Methodology: includes group class
sessions with exercises, interview games and field sessions as direct practice exercises.
After training interviewers will be selected, on the basis of regular tests and the
trainers' appreciation of their personality and capacity.
(b) Data Entry Clerks: data entry staff. The training will consist of a short version of
training for the enumerators in addition to a program used for data entry and intensive
practice so that data entry staff will acquire the necessary speed. Duration: two
weeks. Methodology: classroom and computer laboratory sessions. After training,
data entry clients will be selected according to their capacity to deliver timely and
correct work.
(c) Supervisors: the candidates will need previous survey experience or high level of
education (usually a Master's degree). They will follow training sessions for



-66 -                            Annex N
enumerators and data entry clerks, complemented by training on organization of field
work, management of the teams, supervision of interviews and verification of
questionnaires. Duration: three weeks. Methodology: theoretical sessions and practice
of supervision during the field exercises for the enumerators and verification of the
outputs of the data entry clerks' exercises.
Survey design and organization.
Survey design and implementation: candidates (one or two per year) will attend the Abidjan
training session organized by the World Bank and the Munich Training Center. During the project,
the staff will visit countries where poverty-related surveys are implemented to expose the staff to
problems encountered, new methods used and adaptations to specific issues. Two trips of 20 days
duration have been budgeted.
Qu:-litative techniques: organized for surveys such as beneficiary and participatory assessments.
Methodology: direct TA, on-the-job training related to the study program delivered by experienced
international consultants.
Sampling techniques: on-the-job training will be organized either as a study trip or at a local
workshop. The study trip will be organized with a foreign statistical office to complete the training
of two persons in sampling techniques and by exposing them to the sampling design and execution
of surveys already implemented. Any locally-held workshop will cover the same content, using the
same or equivalent training methodology.
Data Analysis
Data analysis and processing: one study trip will be organized with SIIPCO, the US Census
Bureau for IMPS (6 weeks). The objective is to improve and adapt the skills of one staff member
to the processing and analysis of the poverty surveys. On-the-job training will be given,
throughout the implementation of the survey program, with direct support provided to GMCVP
for programming data entry and consistency checks and tabulation.
Poverty data analysis and modeling: on-the-job training through direct TA. Targeted to all
technical people working in survey design and implementation. This training will focus on macro
modeling for the development of generalized equilibrium models and a social accounting matrix;
poverty analysis from quantitative and qualitative surveys; weighting for price index; gender
analysis; incomes and expenditure data preparation; classifying households, socioeconomic and
target groups; employment and labor market; and the informal sector. Seminars and workshops on
specific topics will be organized as necessary.
Other Study Trips or training activities.
The project will provides fund for staff to participate in international events organized by the
donors on Poverty and Development issues related to analysis and research techniques.
Appropriate training will be provided for the establishment at GMCVP of an integrated
Management Information System.



-67 -                                   Annex 0
Economic and Financial Analysis
Summary of Project Costs and Costs per Beneficiary during the Pilot (US$ thousands)
No. of                   No of Beneficiaries              Average Investment       Average Incremental
Projects.                                                                              recurrent
Men    Women       Children      Total    costs per benef (USS).  costs per benef. per year
Waiting Financing        48       31,117    43,227      58,645     132,989              5.9                    0.36
Under Execution          31       36,159    48,580      60,137      144,876             5.4                    0.22
Finish                    8        3,736     6,271      10,987      20,994             4.35                    0.38
Total                    87       71,012    98,078     129,769     298,859             5.54                    0.29
Comparison Among Different Options in the Construction of Schools in Angola (least cost analysis)
Construction        Cost /square meter USS     Disadvantages                           Advantages
Option
Ministry of         Renovation US$358          Low maintenance budget available        Capacity to carry out bigger works
Education           Construction US$385        Slowpath of implementation
FAS                 Renovation US$80           High supervision input, until construction    Community ownership that ensures
Construction USS130        standards are available, to ensure quality of   sustainability
construction
Nature of Benefits: The main benefit will be increased accessibility to health facilities, schools,
and water in rural and peri-urban areas. Those areas have on average lower incomes than the
centers of the towns, and much lower access to basic services. The main beneficiaries of these
services are women and children. Other benefits include increased knowledge of the living
conditions of the poor in Angola, improved targeting of poverty reduction activities and better
measurement of the impact of these interventions. During the pilot phase, the average total
investment costs per direct beneficiary has been US$5.54.  The rehabilitated structures are
calculated to last about 10 years with basic maintenance and without major repairs. During the
pilot phase, sub-project incremental recurrent costs averaged US$0.28 per year per direct
beneficiary. That figure represents around 1/900 of the GNP per capita. These figures consider
only direct beneficiaries, not the whole community. Even in the difficult situation of Angolan
communities, this seems affordable.
These numbers are early estimates from the current Education Project. Implementation experience indicates
that the actual costs will probably be lower.



-68 -                             Annex O
Expected Number of Beneficiaries per Sub-project Type (US$ thousands)
Average
Number              %    Beneficiary           Total Direct Beneficiaries
per Sub-
project_______
Schools                             911           40               500         455,000
Health Post                         455           20                800        364,000  Visits
Water Supply                        228           10                200         45,000
Latrines                            114            5               500          56,000
Others Agriculture                  114            5                150         17,063
Others Infrastructure               114            5               500          56,875
PIC/PEC*                              91           4                 50          4,455
Others                              253           1 1              665         168,350
Totals                            2,280          100             3,365       1,166,838
*       Pre-school and elderly day care centers
Financial Summary (US$ million)
1996           1997           1998              1999          2000
Project costs
Investment costs                 4.81           8. 70         12.16             12.90          7.00
Recurrent costs                  1.41           1.30           1.40              1.51          0.80
Total                            6.22          10.00          13.56             13.41            7.8
Financing Sources                                  Percentage of Costs
IDA                              46.0           46.0           46.0              46.0          46.0
Government                        5.0            5.0            5.0               5.0            5.0
Beneficiaries                      12             12             12                12            12
Other donors                     37.0           37.0           37.0              37.0          37.0
Total                           100            100            100              100              100
Notes:   I . The Project will only finance investment costs. Communities vill financc incremental recurrent costs.
2. Most of the infrastructures are calculated to last for 10 years without major repairs.
3. This table refers to Table 3.2



IBRD 24288
GAKON                                                         KE
IEWANDA
ONGO                          H U RUND
L^A. NDA > r ~~~~~TANZArJIA
:AblGo,,]                         ZAIRE                                                                              ANGOLA
0       SELECTED TOWNS                   +       AIRPORTS
       PROVINCE CAPITALS                  i      PORTS
NAfJlBIA   <  Z MBABWE   fo   E  .         xi)      NATIONAL CAPITAL                          PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
BOTEWANA                                              dMAIN ROADS                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDAR ES
12         CONGO                                          6                             *'- -      RAILROADS
Sri.':
030                                                                                           rOMILES   0                  I 00                 200                  3/00
CAB NDA (    +> |                                                                                     I                     I                     I                    I
KILOMETERS  0            IG0           200           300           400           500
~5           fZMBA NZA                           Qlbe           ____________________I__________________
+                                                                                      20 92
TonEzuco    /  '           i         8              ZAIRE                   /         <  
-                            UIGE
>    +                                   RX .                                                      O        /      Thos -op hSos bLen p,epL-ed by
0The WorM. Eork             ci,-roooey
.,d  ,  e-clasrrely  for Ihe
L.I A   r                        .-Ierol se of The 'orld Bonk
CAKITO                                                                                                   I  -                   G-pLUCA  rnd  The bo-- ..or  .sed
00S,s m-p oo -or.-ply or Ire
.4.    ;          i                           - -. '.                       ;   :                                             port of 7he World BookDroop,
LUANDA          +                   '   i                                                                                                            T  W         8    G-P,
/~~~~~~~~~~
SALATANDO   -                                          0                           Slo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bS -fBy Ie-o,to  - roy
*             N.DALATAND0   /                                   ,J   .   C.ongo                           -                  |    erdorseerrtnt or ordcepl noeonl
_UANDA    I                                            MALANJE                                                 .i,f
> - +_2 . t>S~~~~~~~~~~~~AURNMO 
+                              .y+
N'GUNZA.                                                                                            _
10. ,            X        _ '1     11                       LU
BENGUELA           .                  H
4.           c.r                     T
.,     X        t~~_--_,MCNONGUE            '                 .                                          f
+    ~             \                \                             '\ Z,MBIA
NAMIBEf-   ,LUAG                                        osot.                                                                                                  _ 
Combwa                  Ch ,                                                   C  Coundo                           ,,r,                   'b,                    i.
_~~~~~~~~od _I 't"''-''_                                                                                                                                           ''
T. W-dh.k              NAMIBIA IBI
1 2                                                    16                       M    ON  U                                                                              4
APR L 1 993









.--~~ ~ ~                     V -            -- ,~4: j-1 C:' --
.  !I-i :j -: r i, i S T. -~, aE
1     -- iT .1, V   ' 4I



