Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
 CREDIT NUMBER 2802 ANG
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Action Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated January 17, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2802 ANG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1996 between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto 
set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
Page  2
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth, and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Administrative Manual" (Manual de Gestao) means the manual adopted by FAS 
(as hereinafter defined) on July 26, 1995 regulating the functioning of FAS, as the 
same may be amended from time to time;
      (b)   "Beneficiary Community" means a community, as defined in Article 14 of 
Decree 44/94 dated October 5, 1994;
      (c)   "FAS" means Fundo de Apoio Social, the Borrower's Social Action Fund, 
established by Decree No. 44/94 dated October 5, 1994;
      (d)   "FAS Project Account" means the Borrower's account for FAS referred to in 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
      (e)   "Financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between FAS 
and a Subproject Committee (as hereinafter defined) for the financing of a Subproject 
through the provision of a grant;
      (f)   "GMCVP" means Gabinete de Monitorizacio das Condicies de Vida da 
Populacio, the office within INE (as hereinafter defined) for monitoring the living 
conditions of the Borrower's population, to be established in accordance with the INE 
Regulations (as hereinafter defined);
      (g)   "INE" means Instituto Nacional de Estatistica, the Borrower's National 
Statistics Institute established by Decree 72/73 of August 25, 1973;
      (h)   "INE Project Account" means the Borrower's account for INE referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "NBO" (Comite de Coordenacio Nacional) means the Borrower's National Board 
of Overseers, established by Decree No. 44/94 dated October 5, 1994;
      (j)   "Kwanza Readjusted" (Kwanza Reajustado) or the acronym "KZR" means the 
currency of the Borrower;
      (k)   "NGO" means a nongovernmental organization operating in the territory of 
the Borrower;
      (l)   "Procedural Manual" (Manual de Procedimentos) means the manual of 
procedures adopted by FAS on July 26, 1995 describing the procedures for procurement 
and disbursement and the cycle of a Subproject to be utilized by FAS in the 
implementation of Part A of the Project, as the same may be
amended from time to time;
      (m)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 17 and May 30, 1994; January 30 and February 10, 1995; and July 25 and August 17, 
1995 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (n)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
      (o)   "INE Regulations" means the Borrower's regulations relating to, amongst 
other matters, the status and regulation of INE and the establishment of GMCVP;
      (p)   "Subproject" means a specific development project which meets the criteria 
set forth in Chapter 5 of the Procedural Manual, and which is to be financed in whole 
or in part out of the proceeds of the Credit;
      (q)   "Subproject Committee" (Nucleo Comunitario) means the committee to be 
established by each Beneficiary Community in accordance with the Procedural Manual and 
paragraph 3 of Part C of Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the purpose of identifying, 
preparing and carrying out Subprojects; and
Page  3
      (r)   "Subsidiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FAS pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,100,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A and Part B of the Project, 
respectively, open and maintain in dollars two special deposit accounts (Special 
Account A in respect of Part A of the Project and Special Account B in respect of Part 
B of the Project) in a commercial bank or commercial banks, each on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the two Special 
Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 2006 and ending September 15, 2035. 
Each installment to, and including the installment payable on September 15, 2015, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
Page  4
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)
shall cause FAS to carry out Part A of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable 
FAS to carry out Part A of the Project, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with the carrying out of Part A of the Project by FAS; and
            (ii)
shall carry out Part B of the Project through GMCVP within INE 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for Part B of the Project. 
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall cause FAS to carry out Part A of the Project and, through INE, shall carry out 
Part B of the Project, all in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall make available to FAS, on a grant basis, a portion of 
the proceeds of the Credit under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and FAS, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association and which shall include a provision granting the amounts 
from time to time allocated to Categories (1), (2) (a), (3), (4) and (6) (a) of the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
Page  5
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, the 
Borrower shall:
      (a)   maintain, until completion of the Project, an account (the FAS Project 
Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, and at quarterly intervals, deposit into the 
FAS Project Account an amount equivalent to the estimated amount required by FAS for 
expenditures which are not otherwise financed from the proceeds of the Credit in the 
following quarter or any other amount required for Part A of the Project, as agreed 
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   open and maintain, until completion of the Project, an account (the INE 
Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association and on terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Association, deposit into the INE Project Account an 
initial amount in KZR equivalent to $5,000 (the Initial Deposit), and thereafter, at 
quarterly intervals following the deposit of the Initial Deposit, deposit into the INE 
Project Account an amount equivalent to the Initial Deposit
or any other amount required for Part B of the Project, as agreed between the Borrower 
and the Association; and
      (c)   ensure that the amounts deposited into the FAS Project Account and the INE 
Project Account, in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, 
respectively, will be used exclusively for the Borrower's counterpart expenditures 
under the Project and be made available to FAS and INE for the purposes of carrying 
out Parts A and B of the Project, respectively, in accordance with the financing plans 
agreed at each review undertaken in accordance with paragraph 1 of Part A of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower, through GMCVP, shall:
      (a)   carry out the studies included in Part B of the Project, under terms of 
reference and in accordance with a timetable satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   furnish to the Association, promptly after the completion of each such 
study, a copy of the final study, GMCVP's findings and recommendations;
      (c)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to comment on such 
findings and recommendations; and
      (d)   ensure that the studies carried out under the Project and findings and 
recommendations relating thereto shall be made available to the public.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower, throughout the execution of the Project, shall:
      (a)   maintain, within INE, the GMCVP, with functions, responsibilities and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and with higher level staff, in 
sufficient number
and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, responsible for 
the implementation of Part B of the Project;
      (b)   take all necessary measures to make available housing, office space and 
transportation to consultants engaged to assist in the carrying out of studies under 
Part B of the
Project;
      (c)   staff, operate and maintain the public facilities constructed or 
rehabilitated under Part A.1 of the Project in a manner satisfactory to the 
Association; and
      (d)   take into account the recommendations of GMCVP made in accordance with 
Section 3.06 (b) in its preparation of its future poverty reduction strategy.
Page  6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, in respect of Part B of the 
Project, and cause FAS to maintain, in respect of Part A of the Project, separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part B and Part A 
of the Project, respectively.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, and shall cause FAS to:
            (i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
            (ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
           (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
            (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
            (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause FAS:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of qualified and 
experienced  management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants, machinery, equipment 
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial 
practices.
Page  7
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Borrower's Decree No. 44/94 or Executive Decree No. 2/94 shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the ability of FAS to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that FAS will be able to carry out Part A of the Project.
      (c)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of FAS or for the suspension of its 
operations.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of INE or for the suspension of its 
operations.
      (e)   The INE Regulations shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower to perform any of its obligations in respect of Part B of the Project.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in 
paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant Agreement has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and FAS.
      Section 7.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Grant 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and FAS and is legally 
binding upon the Borrower and FAS in accordance with its terms.
      Section 7.03. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            Largo do Palacio
            Luanda
            Republic of Angola
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    MINPLAN                 3082
                    Luanda, Angola
Page  8
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                    INDEVAS                 248423 (RCA)
                    Washington, D.C.         82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
                    By /s/ Franca NþDalu
Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Works                      100,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 95% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)   Goods:                     660,000
      (a)   FAS                                  100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 95% of local
                                                 expenditures
      (b)   GMCVP                100,000         100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 95% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)   Subprojects              8,540,000         100% of amounts
      under Part A                               disbursed by FAS
Page  9
      of the Project                             for each Subproject
                                                 for which a Financing
                                                 Agreement has been
                                                 entered into
(4)   Consultants'             1,130,000         100%
      Services and
      Training
      under Part A
      of the Project
(5)   Consultants'             1,440,000         100%
      Services and
      Training
      (including Studies)
      under Part B
      of the Project
(6)   (a)   FAS Operating      1,130,000         95%
            Costs
      (b)   GMCVP                260,000         100% for the first
            Operating Costs                      two years of execution
                                                 of Part B of the Project
                                                 and 80% thereafter
(7)   Refunding of             1,330,000         Amounts due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              1,410,000
            TOTAL             16,100,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   the term "FAS Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs 
arising under Part A of the Project on account of local contractual staff salaries, 
travel and other staff allowances, rental and maintenance of equipment, vehicles, 
fuel, spare parts and vehicle insurance, office rental materials and supplies, 
utilities and communications expenses; and
      (d)   the term "GMCVP Operating Costs" means the incremental operating costs 
arising under Part B of the Project on account of local contractual staff salaries, 
the operation and maintenance of office equipment, materials and supplies, and 
vehicles (including fuel).
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) under Categories (2) (b), (5) and (6) (b) until: (i) INE has 
adopted a manual of procedures for GMCVP's operation satisfactory to the Association; 
(ii) INE has appointed an administrator for GMCVP with qualifications, skills and 
experience and on terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; (iii) the 
Association has received a legal opinion, satisfactory to the Association, that the 
INE Regulations have been approved; and (iv) the Borrower has opened the INE Project 
Account and deposited the amount of the Initial Deposit into the INE Project Account.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and works under 
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, and for services: (i) for firms under 
contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, and (ii) for individuals under contracts 
not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to: (a) improve access to basic services in 
rural and urban areas; (b) increase income-earning capacity and employment of the poor 
in rural and urban areas; (c) provide a better understanding of the main causes of 
poverty in order to help formulate adequate strategies and policies for poverty 
alleviation and socioeconomic development; and (d) strengthen the Borrowerþs capacity 
for poverty data collection, analysis and monitoring.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:    Social Fund
1.    Carrying out of Subprojects related to health, education and vocational 
training, water supply and sanitation, agricultural production (markets, storage 
facilities and conservation plants), infrastructure and revenue-generating traditional 
and non-traditional activities for the benefit of a Beneficiary Community.
2.    Provision of technical assistance for FAS staff responsible for the 
implementation of Part A.1 of the Project to assist them in selecting, monitoring and 
supervising Subprojects.
3.    Provision of information through FAS and NGOs to potential and actual 
Beneficiary Communities to assist them in identifying, preparing and carrying out 
Subprojects.
4.    Rehabilitation of offices and acquisition of vehicles and office equipment for 
use by FAS in carrying out Parts A.1, 2 and 3 of the Project.
Part B:    Poverty Monitoring
1.    Carrying out of studies and research on poverty and social issues, and 
systematic poverty monitoring through the conduct of household and community surveys 
and collection of statistics
and information.
2.    Establishment of a study program to fund studies and specific beneficiary and 
participatory assessments.
3.    Establishment and maintenance of a national data base on poverty and related 
social issues.
4.    Acquisition of vehicles and office equipment for use by GMCVP in carrying out 
Parts B.1, 2 and 3 of the Project.
5.    Provision of technical assistance to GMCVP to assist it to carry out Parts B.1, 
2 and 3 of the Project.
* * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
Page  11
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a)   Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
      (b)   Dispute Review Board
      Each contract for works estimated to cost $5,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $4,670,000 equivalent, and works estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$1,020,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      (a)   Goods acquired for use by FAS and GMCVP and estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 
equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Works for FAS offices estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, and not to exceed $200,000 in the aggregate, shall be procured under 
lump-sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and 
resources to successfully complete the contract.
3.    Procurement from UN Agencies
      Vehicles and office equipment costing $1,300,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate may be procured from the UN Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
4.    Community Participation
      Works under Part A of the Project costing $50,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,360,000 equivalent, and goods 
estimated to cost $20,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $2,810,000 equivalent, shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  12
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be 
used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the 
terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting 
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$20,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Part A:     Project Reporting Requirements
1.    (a)   Without limitation or restriction upon its other reporting requirements 
under Section 9.05 and 9.06 of the General Conditions, the Borrower and the 
Association shall, semiannually, exchange views on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project. The first such exchange of views shall take place no 
later than six months after the Effective Date.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association, for its review and comment, a report on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. The progress report shall cover, amongst other things:
            (i)
the administration and financial operations of FAS;
 
            (ii)
the six-monthly work, training and procurement plans and budget in 
respect of Part A of the Project for the succeeding six-month 
period;
           (iii)
in respect of Part A of the Project, compliance with the expansion 
strategy set forth in the Procedural Manual concerning the 
expansion of the area of operation of FAS and review of the 
expansion strategy, as necessary; 
            (iv)
the operating costs of FAS, including the operating costs of each 
provincial office;
            (v)
in respect of Part A.1 of the Project, the results of the most 
recent external audits of a representative sample of Subprojects, 
a review of procurement, a description of monitoring activities of 
the quality and timeliness of implementation of Subprojects and a 
summary of the impact of the most recent Subprojects;
            (vi)
in respect of Part B of the Project, a summary of survey 
activities, studies and statistical analysis undertaken 
thereunder, the number of studies carried out thereunder and the 
findings and recommendations of the surveys and studies;
           (vii)
in respect of Part B of the Project, a summary of survey 
activities, studies and statistical analysis to be undertaken in 
the succeeding six-month period; and
Page  13
           (viii)
in respect of Part A of the Project, the Administrative Manual and 
Procedural Manual and changes required (if any).
2.    (a)   On or about the date twenty-five (25) months after the Effective Date, or 
when one half (1/2) of the amount of the Credit has been disbursed, whichever is 
earlier, the Borrower shall carry out, jointly with the Association and FAS, a midterm 
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project (hereinafter referred to as 
the Midterm Review). The Midterm Review shall cover, among other things:
            (i)
An assessment of: (a) work programs and budgets prepared to date; 
(b) training provided under the Project; (c) procurement under the 
Project; and (d) the status of Project monitoring indicators 
agreed upon with the Association and plans for updating such 
monitoring indicators.
            (ii)
A review of the geographical, community,district and provincial 
indicators and of the distribution of the Subprojects under Part 
A.1 of the Project in order to evaluate the performance of the FAS 
in implementing Part A.1 of the Project.
            (iii)
A review of the state of maintenance and of the infrastructure 
rehabilitated and constructed under Part A of the Project.
            (iv)
An assessment of, among other things, whether the Borrower is 
maintaining the social infrastructure rehabilitated and 
constructed under Part A of the Project with sufficient personnel 
for its operation. 
            (v)
A discussion of the options for ensuring the long-term 
sustainability of the institutional arrangements for financing 
Part B of this Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause FAS, at least four (4) weeks prior to the Midterm 
Review, to furnish to the Association a separate report describing the status of 
implementation of Part
A of the Project and a summary report of Part A implementation.
      (c)   The Borrower, through INE, and at least four (4) weeks prior to the 
Midterm Review, shall furnish to the Association a separate report describing the 
status of implementation of the Project and a summary report of Part B implementation.
      (d)   The Borrower shall cause FAS, no later than four (4) weeks after the 
Midterm Review, to prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the 
further implementation of Part A of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review, and thereafter implement such program.
      (e)   The Borrower, through INE, no later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm 
Review, shall prepare an action program, acceptable to the Association, for the 
further implementation of Part B of the Project having regard to the findings of the 
Midterm Review, and thereafter implement such
program.
Part B:    FAS Structure
      Until Project completion, FAS will appoint personnel (including the Executive 
Director and Provincial Directors) to all key positions detailed in its organizational 
chart as set forth in the Administrative Manual, all such personnel to possess 
experience and qualifications acceptable to the Association.
Part C:    Implementation of Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project
1.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Part A.1 of the 
Project, FAS shall apply the procedures and guidelines set out in the Administrative 
Manual and Procedural Manual. FAS shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive 
any provision of the Administrative Manual or the Procedural Manual in such a way that 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the execution 
of Part A of the Project.  Implementation in  accordance with the procedures and 
guidelines set out in the Administrative Manual and Procedural Manual shall include, 
but not be limited to, the following:
2.    The following Subprojects will be eligible for financing under the Credit:
Page  14
      (a)   Expansion, repair and, where appropriate, construction of social 
infrastructure.
      (b)   Rehabilitation and expansion of productive infrastructure.
      (c)   Construction and rehabilitation of economic infrastructure.
      (d)   Revenue-generating Subprojects, such as equipment and materials for use in 
small scale entrepreneurial activities.
3.    Eligible Subprojects and the Beneficiary Community must meet the criteria and 
conditions specified in Chapters 2, 3 and 4 of the Procedural Manual.
4.    The procedures in the Procedural Manual shall be followed in identifying, 
processing and approving Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project. Subprojects 
estimated not to exceed $20,000
will be approved at the provincial level.  The provincial offices of FAS shall submit 
all Subprojects estimated to exceed $20,000 to the FAS National Coordination Unit for 
approval.
Subprojects estimated to exceed $50,000 will be submitted to the NBO and the 
Association for approval prior to the signing of the respective Financing Agreements.
Part D:    Financing Agreements under Part A.1 of the Project
      FAS shall enter into a Financing Agreement with the Subproject Committee for the 
benefit of the Beneficiary Community. The terms of the Financing Agreement shall be 
satisfactory to the Association and shall include FAS obtaining rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association through, inter alia, the 
following provisions:
      (a)   The Subproject Committee shall carry out the Subproject with due diligence 
and efficiency in accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial standards 
and maintain adequate records.
      (b)   The goods, civil works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit for the Subproject shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   FAS shall have the right to inspect, by itself or jointly with the 
Association and the Borrower, the goods and sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Subproject.
      (d)   FAS shall have the right to obtain all such information as FAS or the 
Association shall reasonably request regarding the goods, works, site, plant and 
construction included in the Subproject, the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Subproject and the benefits to be derived from the Subproject.
      (e)   FAS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of a Subproject 
Committee to use the proceeds of the Credit for the relevant Subproject upon failure 
by any such Subproject Committee to perform any of its respective obligations under 
the Financing Agreement.
      (f)   The Subproject Committee shall have the obligation to report to FAS on 
progress in implementing the Subproject.
Part E:     Implementation of Part B of the Project by GMCVP
1.    The Borrower shall carry out Part B of the Project through the GMCVP within INE. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, in carrying out Part B of the 
Project, GMCVP shall apply
the procedures and guidelines agreed with the Borrower and the Association during the 
reviews to take place in accordance with Part A, paragraph 1 (b) (vi) and (vii) of 
this Schedule.
2.    Study Selection Criteria
      (a)   In order to be financed under Part B of the Project, studies must be 
initiated, prepared, implemented and presented by local researchers and institutions 
(these may be associated
with foreign universities or research centers) and approved by GMCVP.
Page  15
      (b)   The studies should focus on low-income groups of the population, the 
social impact of the economic reform, the opportunities within and structure of the 
labor market and monitoring of living standards of the population.
      (c)   The studies should use sound methodology, a realistic budget should be 
included, and the study should be implementable in less than a year.
      (d)   Research sponsorship and other activities shall be approved by GMCVP for 
funding in accordance with procedures agreed with the Association.
      (e)   If a study proposal is approved, the GMCVP will request a review on the 
methodological aspects of the study. The GMCVP will determine if the proposal complies 
with the study fund criteria, and if necessary, other relevant ministeries will be 
invited to comment on the relevance of the proposed study for current  policy issues. 
If necessary, the proposal will be reviewed on the basis of these recommendations. The 
GMCVP will ensure that the study approval cycle does not last more than two months.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A, 
Categories (1), (2) (a), (3), (4) and (6) (a), and in the case of Special Account B, 
Categories (2) (b), (5) and (6) (b), all as set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of  Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, in the case of Special Account A, equivalent to $ 1,500,000, and, in 
the case of Special Account B,  equivalent to $200,000, provided, however, that unless 
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for: (i) Special 
Account A shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $750,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account under the Eligible Categories for 
Special Account A plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part A 
of the Project shall be equal to or exceed SDR 3,300,000; and (ii) Special Account B 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account under the Eligible Categories for Special Account 
B, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions for Part B of the 
Project, shall be equal to or exceed SDR 650,000.
2.    Payments out of a Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish a Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into a Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
      (b)   (i)
For replenishment of a Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposits into such Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
            (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
Page  16
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for either of the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the respective Authorized Allocations.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in either Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
Page  17
