Document of                                 FlE   P
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3479-GH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$13.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR A
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 7, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Cedis
US$1                 2.75 Cedis
1 Cedi              US$0.36
US$1                 SDR 1.1031
(The US$/SDR exchange rate used in this report is that of December 31, 1982)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana: January 1 - December 31
(effective January 1, 1983)
GWSC                : January 1 - December 31
(effectiv-e January 1, 1983)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB  -  African Development Bank
ATMA  -  Accra/Tema Metropolitan Area (An Operating Division of GWSC)
CIDA  -  Canadian International Development Agency
GCMB  -  Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP   -  Gross National Product
GWSC  -  Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation
IDA   -  International Development Association
MIP   -  Management Improvement Program
UNDP  -  United Nations Development Programme
WHO   -  World Health Organization
mgd   -  Million Gallons per Day (Imperial Measure)
cu.m  -  cubic meter (1 cu.m = 220 Imperial Gallons)
km    -  kilometer
mm    -  millimeter



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Borrower:          Republic of Ghana
Beneficiary:       Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC)
Amount:            SDR 11.8 million (US$13.0 million) equivalent
Terms:             Standard
Relending Terms:  The Ghana Government would make the proceeds of the Credit
available to GWSC in the following forms: US$9.75 million
as equity and US$3.25 million as grant.
Project
Description:      The primary objectives of the project are to:
(a) strengthen the managerial capabilities of GWSC to enable
it to play an effective role in planning and carrying out
rehabilitation and further development of the water and
sewerage sector; (b) improve GWSC's operating and financial
performance; and (c) improve water supply in the Accra/Tema
Metropolitan Area by carrying out emergency repair and main-
tenance of the transmission and distribution facilities.
The project would include: (a) a management improvement
program for GWSC including a comprehensive review by consul-
tants of GWSC's organization, management, operating and
financial policies, staffing and manpower development and
provision of about 30 man-years of technical assistance to
strengthen GWSC's higher level staff and to assist in imple-
menting the consultants' recommendations; (b) emergency
rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra pipeline and provi-
sion of spares, supplies and equipment urgently required to
carry out repairs and maintenance of the distribution net-
work in the Accra/Tema Metropolitan Area including instal-
lation and repair of public standpipes; and (c) preparation
of final engineering design and contract documents for a
future investment in water supply and sanitation.  While the
project would face no unusual technical risks, the implemen-
tation of the management improvement program would require
close monitoring.  Continued Government support to GWSC
would be essential if the institutional objectives of the
project are to be fully achieved.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
(Net of Taxes)
------- US$'000 ----------
Local      Foreign       Total
Management Improvement Program
- Consultant Study                     850        1,500         2,350
- Technical Assistance               1,500        2,290         3,790
Pipeline Rehabilitation              1,829        5!,278        7,107
Repairs and maintenance of ATMA
distribution facilities and
public fountains                       150        1,000         1,150
Consultant services for project
preparation and reservoir studies       40          232           272
Refund of PPF advance                               400           400
Contingencies
- Physical                             524        1,300         1,824
- Price                              4,507        1,000         5,507
TOTAL (Net of Taxes)            9,400       13,000       22,400
Financing Plan
---------- US$,000 ----
Local     Foreign       Total
IDA                                      -      13,000       13,000
Government                           9,400           -        9,400
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY    1983      1984      1985      1986
Annual                           400    7,150    3,850       1,600
Cumulative                       400    7,550   11,400    13,000
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report: None
Map:    IBRD 15725



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA FOR A
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the Lfollowing report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Republic of Ghana for the equivalent of SDR 11.8
million (US$13.0 million) on standard TDA terms to help finance a Water Supply
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project.  The Ghana Government would
make the proceeds of the credit available to the Ghana Water and Sewerage
Corporation (GWSC) in the form of both equity (US$9.75 million) and grant
(US$3.25 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Ghana: Economic Memorandum" was
distributed to the Executive Directors in May 1979 (2345-GH) and a special
study, "Ghana: Report on Domestic Resource Mobilization", in February 1981
(3072-GH).  An economic mission visited Ghana in November/December 1982, and
its principal findings are incorporated in the following paragraphs. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.       On December 31, 1981 Flight Lt. Rawlings seized power in Ghana and
replaced the Government headed by President Limann. The ruling junta, the
Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC), initially consisted of military
men, trade union and student leaders and was characterized by an inward
looking strategy. Recent changes, following a coup attempt in November 1982,
have consolidated the power base of Rawlings and strengthened the more
pragmatic elements in the Council.
4.       Ghana has been beset with serious economic difficulties in recent
years.  The discussion in this part of the Report is centered around the
following questions: What endowments does Ghana possess, what has happened in
the past, where does the economy stand at present, and what is being done to
rectify the present situation?
Basic Structural Characteristics
5.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for 50
percent of GDP in 1980, 57 percent of the labor force and 75 percent of
exports.  Industrial production and services account for 17.5 and 32 percent
of GDP respectively. Although Ghana had traditionally enjoyed a fairly high
standard of living compared with most other West African nations, the poor
growth performance of the economy over more than a decade has caused a severe
setback. A declining gross national income in the face of a high population
growth rate has contributed to substantial erosion in real per capita income.



- 2 -
The incidence of absolute poverty has been on the increase and almost one half
of the country's total population is now estimated to live in absolute poverty.
Accompanying the stagnation in the economy has also been a worsening of income
distribution and growing unemployment. At least 18 percent of the labor force
is estimated to be unemployed and under-employment is also widespread.
6.       Although Ghana has in the past devoted considerable efforts to the
development of its human resources and is often credited with a relatively
high level of social development, more recent statistics suggest that Ghana's
basic needs indicators are now no more than on par with other Sub-Sahara
Africa countries with comparable income per capita. Ghana's population of 12
million is estimated to be growing at 3 percent and the indications are that
it will grow even more rapidly in the future. Despite the growth in health
facilities, modern health services are available on:ly to about one third of
the people and onLy 21 percent of these services are available to rural
people.  Only 35 percent of the population have access to safe water.  Fifty
percent of all adult males and 70 percent of adult females have had no formal
education. Although the education system is well eEstablished and elementary
education has been free and universal since 1962, a significant portion of
Ghana's middle-to-high level manpower has migrated to other African countries
and overseas in search of better living conditions.
7.       Ghana is a typical example of a developing country with primary
commodity export concentration. Cocoa (of which Ghana is now the world's
third largest producer) contributes about 70 to 80 percent of the country's
export earnings and together with timber, gold, manganese and diamonds
accounts for 95 percent of exports. Cocoa production in 1981/82 will be
around 200,000 metric tons less than one half of the peak output in 1964/65.
Diversification of the export base, although emphasized by every succeeding
Government, has not made much headway during the last 25 years. The decline
in the volume of exports has been the most significant factor underlying
Ghana's poor econoraic performance.
8.       The basic staple foods consumed by Ghanaians are maize, rice, millet,
yam, cassava and plantain. Except for a few years in the early seventies when
near self-sufficiency was reached in basic cereal production, Ghana has been
importing rice and maize (10 to 15 percent of its consumption on an average in
the last five years). Yields of the basic staples have been stagnant with the
major exception of cassava. Prolonged drought in 1975-77, inadequate support
services, poor transport facilities and lack of fertilizers and inputs have
contributed to a decline in food production. Domestic output of cereals is
estimated to have declined from 890,000 tons in 1974 to 672,000 tons in
1980.  About 55 percent of the labor force are engaged in farming and nearly
70 percent of the population derives an income from agricultural or related
activities. However, only about 11 percent of the to-tal land area is
cultivated and divided equally between cocoa and food crops.
9.       Manufactur:ing in Ghana remains heavily dependent on imported
inputs. Manufacturing contributed 14 percent of GDP in 1971 but this figure
has declined progressively to 9 percent in 1980. Ghana's manufacturing
industries include textiles, steel, tires, oil refining and simple consumer



- 3 -
goods. This sector also provides full and part-time employment to about 12
percent of the labor force. As most of the industries are import-dependent
for raw materials and other inputs, the goal of import substitution through
industrialization did not meet with much success.
10.      Traditionally, Ghana has imported its entire petroleum requirements,
mostly in the form of crude oil which is refined domestically and used chiefly
as a source of fuel for the transport sector.  Rising oil import prices have
resulted in crude oil imports absorbing an increasingly large percentage of
Ghana's export earnings. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered and
commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude oil is about 2,000
barrels per day equivalent to 7 percent of Ghana's annual requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
requirements.
11.      Mining is the second largest foreign exchange earner after cocoa,
contributing about 10 to 15 percent of Ghana's foreign exchange earnings.
Ghana has a substantial endowment of gold, diamonds, manganese, and bauxite
and the industry is capable of substantially increased production through the
rehabilitation of existing mines and the development of new ore bodies.
Recent Economic Developments
12.      Despite a relatively well-endowed natural resource base and human
capital, Ghana's economy has been ailing for the past several years.
Prominent among the symptoms have been: declining per capita incomes,
persistent high inflation, a greatly overvalued exchange rate, flourishing
illegal economic activities such as smuggling, large public sector deficits, a
difficult balance of payments situation, low productivity, low domestic
savings and declining investment, a deteriorating transportation network and
other infrastructure, severe underutilization of productive capacity, high
unemployment, a brain drain of skilled professionals and much weakened
institutions. The reasons for these difficulties are manifold. Political
instability and persistent mismanagement of the economy by successive Govern-
ments, an over-extended parastatal sector, sharp increases in oil prices and
adverse terms of trade for Ghana's major exports are among the most important
factors contributing to this situation.
13.      Except for the year 1978, Ghana has experienced a sustained decline
in real GDP every year since 1975. Since that year, real per capita income
has declined by about 25 percent and was estimated at $400 in 1981. Per
capita food availability is 30 percent lower than in 1975. Food production in
1980 was only 88 percent of the level in 1975. Most basic commodities, except
cereals and starchy staples, are not available or if they are available can be
purchased only on the black market.
14.      Inflation has been rampant in Ghana since the mid 1970's.  The con-
sumer price index has increased by an average of about 80 percent per annum
since 1975 and reached the triple digit level in 1981. Large public deficits,
excess liquidity and shortage of goods have all contributed to the general
rise in prices. Price controls have been employed by successive Governments



- 4 -
extensively but with very little success. The income distribution conse-
quenices of inflation have been quite severe for fixed wage earners and cocoa
farmers while traders, import licencees, speculators and farmers with market-
able crops have been the main beneficiaries. There has been some moderation
in inflation in 1982 and the consumer price index is estimated to have risen
by 30 percent as compared to 116 percent in the previous year. This decline
in the rate of inflation was brought about by extraordinary measures such as
demonetization to siphon off excess liquidity, sealing of borders, severe
restraint on Government expenditure and monetary growth. It is not clear if
this moderation can be sustained particularly in the wake of huge deficits of
the Cocoa Marketing Board (CMB) (04 billion or 80 percent of Government
revenues) that have to be financed by borrowing from the banking system during
the 1982/83 buying season.
15.      In August 1978, a 58 percent devaluation of the cedi was implemented
which changed the cedi/US dollar rate to 02.75 to US$1.00. Since then, the
ratio of domestic to world prices has risen 3.7 times and the earlier devalua-
tion itself did not fully correct the depreciation of the cedi. Without a
drastic realignment; of the exchange rate, the economy will continue to suffer
from pervasive price-cost distortions hindering its development. The over-
valued exchange rate has acted as a strong disincentive to production for
exports. Exports have been discouraged as the cost of their production far
exceeds the price received at the official exchange rate. Over-valuation has
also resulted in a wide variety of illegal and unproductive economic activi-
ties. Domestically-produced and imported goods are smuggled to the Ivory
Coast and Togo for sale against the hard CFA with tremendous losses to the
country's official exchange reserves (estimated unofficially at $100 million
per annum).
16.      Under a program of stabilization begun in 1978, Government expendi-
tures were cut by about one third in real terms in 1978/79, and the budget
deficit was reduced to 5 percent of GDP compared with 12 percent in the
preceding year. However, this improvement was short-lived and could not be
sustained during the subsequent years. The increase in the minimum wage in
November 1980 and a serious shortfall in revenues widened the deficit to 04.7
billion or 10 percent of GDP in 1980/81. Cocoa duties fell dramatically to 5
percent of total revenues in 1980/81 from 47 percent in 1978/79. The collapse
in cocoa revenues was due to the fall in cocoa prices in the world market, and
an overvalued exchange rate compounded by acute difficualties in evacuating
cocoa and increases in CMB's marketing costs.  In addition, the Government tax               e
base has narrowed as excise and sale tax assessment is based on official
controlled prices of commodities which are much lower than actual transaction
prices.  Similarly, .mport duties are assessed on the c.i.f. value converted
at the official exchange rate while actual sales of imported commodities take
place at much higher black market rates.  The tax-GDP ratio in 1981 declined
to about 10 percent of GDP as compared to 15 percent in 1974.
17.      In 1981/82 the government deficit amounted to about 5 billion cedis,
i.e. 50 percent of the total estimated expenditures of 010 billion or
equivalent to the total revenue collection. The deficit during the last six
months of 1982 was, however, contained at 02.5 billion or almost the same
proportion as the preceding 12 months.  In real terms and as a ratio of



- 5 -
current GDP the deficit has gone down but this was achieved at a substantial
cost. The wage-non wage ratio of recurrent expenditures has become more
skewed while development expenditures as a proportion of total Government
expenditures have declined significantly.
18.      The financing of the budget deficits has been the main source of
credit and liquidity expansion in the Ghanaian economy.  In 1977 alone the
money supply increased by 60 percent. Following the 1978 stabilization
program the growth of money supply was held at only 29 percent in 1979. But
by 1980 the tight rein or monetary policy began to slip. Net domestic assets
of the Bank of Ghana (or the banking system) rose by 29 percent with net
claims on Government rising by 33 percent; money supply rose by 34 percent.
The same pattern was followed in 1981: money supply rose by 55 percent,
domestic assets of the banking system increased by 63 percent and net claims
on Government went up by 63 percent.
19.      The balance of payments difficulties have continued to worsen.  Given
the negligible capital inflows, the level of imports and service payments have
perforce been held to the level of export earnings. Export earnings in 1982
are estimated to be 40 percent lower than in 1980 ($776 million as compared to
$1.1 billion). Continuing decline in the real value of producer prices and
the shortage of consumer goods in rural areas have been a further disincentive
to agricultural production and a contributory factor to the smuggling of food-
stuffs and cocoa to neighboring countries where consumer and other goods are
available. International recession has contributed to this poor export
performance. Because of weak demand, world prices of cocoa recorded a steep
fall in recent years and prices of other primary exports were equally unfavor-
able. Other major exports - gold, bauxite, diamonds, and timber have also
declined in quantities. The international oil crisis has also hit Ghana
hard. Imports of crude and petroleum products preempt almost one half of the
country's export earnings. The foreign exchange problems have resulted in the
accumulation of external payments arrears which have damaged Ghana's credit-
worthiness and its access to foreign capital markets. The current account
balance showed a small surplus in 1979 - equivalent to 0.3 percent of GNP but
has since registered increasing deficits, amounting to around 0.7 percent of
GNP in 1981.
20.      Although the current account deficit is low, it masks the fact that
the decline in the level of imports has created chronic and extremely acute
shortages of raw materials, spare parts, investment and consumer goods in the
economy. The import-GDP ratio in Ghana was 20 percent in 1974 but had
declined to only 3.6 percent by 1981 (at the official exchange rate), signi-
fying an overall stagnation in production and consumption.  Production in the
manufacturing sector has been curtailed to only one-fourth of the installed
capacity due to shortage of spare parts, components and imported raw materials.
There has also been a sharp deterioration in the physical infrastructure,
especially roads, railways and the transport fleet. Shortages of fuel,
lubricants and spare parts have immobilized a large part of the trucking and
road maintenance fleet and badly affected the export mining and forestry
industries as well as the efficiency of the ports. It is estimated that more
than 40 percent of the road vehicle fleet is presently out of service while
more than one third of Ghana Railway Corporation's locomotives are awaiting



- 6 -
spare parts for major repairs or overhaul. Road maintenance operations have
come to a virtual standstill and the entire road network is deteriorating
rapidly and is already unusable in many places.
21.      In comparison with many African countries, Ghana had a large
reservoir of skilled and trained manpower. In recent years, there has been a
tremendous exodus of teachers, doctors and other professional workers to other
countries where salaries and living conditions are better. It is reported
that approximately one third of all secondary school teachers have migrated to
Nigeria, Liberia, Sierra Leone and other Anglophone countries.
22.      A growing imbalance is emerging between the quality and output of
skilled manpower and the economy's skilled manpower requirements.  The outflow
of managerial and professional personnel has further thinned the administra-
tive talents in the Civil Service while redundancy and overstaffing is a
problem at lower echelons. The Ghanaian public administration has been demor-
alized by relatively low salaries, an economic system which has penalized them
severely compared with other segments of the society and uncertain and adverse
working conditions. There are problems of quality and motivation at the
senior level.
23.      Capital formation was quite rapid during the 1950's but became
increasingly negative thereafter. By the 1970's, gross investment averaged
only 8.9 percent of GDP and net investment may even have been negative. Gross
investment is currently estimated to be 5 percent of GDP as compared to 21
percent for Sub-Sahara Africa as a whole. In an inflationary environment with
very little scope for productive investment opportunities and negative real
interest rates, domestic savings were also low - about 5 percent of GDP (the
average for Sub-Sahara Africa is 23 percent). Savings deposit rates of 12 to
14 percent provide inadequate incentives to savers facing inflation rates in
excess of 30 percent. The binding constraint is, however, availability of
foreign exchange rather than resources for investment.
24.      State enterprises in Ghana have been assigned a large role in produc-
tion and distribution of goods and services. However, their performance has
been distressing and has generated serious pressures on fiscal and monetary
oolicies. For example, total subsidy requirements of the public enterprises
rose from 067 million in 1973/74 to $518 million in 1978/79. The reasons for
this poor performance are manifold but the main problems are inefficient
management, Government control over prices, lack of required inputs, machinery
and spare parts, heavy overhead expenses on redundant labor, too frequent
changes in top personnel and lack of strict accountability.
Economic Recovery Program and Prospects
25.      The new Government that came to power in December 1981 recognizes the
need to undertake major economic reforms and institutional changes that can
guide the economy from the current crisis back to a basis from which sustained
economic development could be resumed. An economic recovery program con-
sisting of major ins-titutional changes in banking, foreign trade, internal
trade and investment has been announced recently. The other part of the
program centers around exchange rate, fiscal, monetary and production policies



- 7 -
and was discussed by the Government with the Bank's economic mission that
visited Ghana in November/December 1982. Following the mission's visit,
substantial progress has been made in completing the essential components of
the recovery program which are to be announced with the introduction of the
FY83 budget in March. The Government is expected to seek the support of the
IMF for its recovery program.
26.      Though the problems of adjustment in the short term, by themselves,
are so compelling they have been further compounded by the recent inflow of an
estimated one million Ghanaians expelled by Nigeria. In the wake of the acute
shortage of essential commodities and food, the pressure on prices is likely
to be enormous.  The costs of rehabilitating these families would place an
additional burden on the already strained financial resources of the Govern-
ment. Financial assistance from international and bilateral sources in
addition to stabilization program support will be required to help overcome
this problem.
27.      Following a short-term stabilization program, Ghana would require a
comprehensive economic rehabilitation program during the next three to four
years before a solid foundation can be laid for resumption of economic
growth. Besides a substantial infusion of foreign exchange for increasing the
overall level of imports, improved allocation is required to appreciably
augment the supply of basic consumer goods, raw materials and spare parts to
sharpen the supply response of mining, manufacturing, timber and agricultural
activities. A program to rehabilitate the road, ports, railway and transport
infrastructure of the country will also need substantial external support.
The other tasks that need to be accomplished include improvement of parastatal
operations, a review of the role of the private and public sectors in the
economy and strengthening Government capacity for planning and economic
management.
28.      Ghana's growth prospects beyond the stabilization and rehabilitation
phases will depend to a considerable extent on the determination of the
Government to sustain the kind of economic policies indicated under the
economic recovery program and an investment plan that fulfills the key
requirements of the economy. The speed of this transition process will depend
upon the Government's ability and willingness to implement these reforms
despite the fact that some of its features may not be universally popular.
29.      Should the Government succeed in maintaining a more realistic
structure of prices and costs and a viable exchange rate, restrain growth in
public consumption, improve public revenue performance, reduce strong infla-
tionary tendencies associated with large public sector deficits, and make a
concerted drive to expand production and exports, particularly of cocoa and
minerals, through more appropriate price incentives, support services and more
assured supplies of necessary inputs, it should be feasible to achieve rates
of real growth in excess of 4 percent per annum (or one percent per capita)
after 1985/86. With sustained improvement in economic management, the economy
is capable of even higher rates of growth. However, the attainment of even a
modest rate of growth will require that Ghana's own efforts be supported by an
augmented flow of external assistance to overcome the present external
resource constraint. External capital flows, both official and private, have



- 8 -
slowed down to a mere trickle in recent years. New loans and grants from all
bilateral and mu:Ltilateral sources in 1981, for example, amounted to only $184
million. For a country of the size. population and potential of Ghana, this
amount is clearly inadequate. Ghana's needs for external capital will be
substantial over the next few years and will call for a major effort on the
part of the donor community.  As Ghana has yet to establish its creditworthi-
ness, the external capital has to come largely from official sources. Unless
such concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possiblity of a successful
stabilization program and an economic rehabilitation program would be
seriously diminished and could adversely affect the country's stability. At
the same time, the managerial and administrative effectiveness and efficiency
of the Government and other public sector organizations should be improved to
remove logistic bottlenecks and ensure greater capacity utilization.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
30.      An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, are to be
paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of 10
years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1980 is estimated at US$1,022
million representing about 20 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of
public and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt is about 4 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly in
the late 1980s when the grace period on the rescheduled debt will have expired.
Arrears on Ghana's short-term debt increased from US$245 million in 1977 to
US$489 million by end-1978. By December 1980 these arrears had declined to
US$332 million. However, 1981 saw a relapse with arrears increasing by
$142 million. By the end of 1982, the short term arrears had accumulated to
$580 million. The economic recovery program aims to reduce these arrears in a
phased manner.
31.      Ghana is relying on official sources for the bulk of the external
capital required to support its development program, and relatively little of
its medium and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. As at end-1980,
Bank loans and IDA credits disbursed together represented about 20 percent of
the estimated country's total public external debt. Service payments on Bank
loans and IDA credits in 1980 accounted for 23 percent and 2 percent respec-
tively of the country's external debt service.
32.      The country's difficult economic situation and its vulnerability to
fluctuations in cocoa export earnings, make it desirable that future debt
service obligations be kept as low as possible. Therefore, IDA credits will
be an appropriate form of Bank Group assistance to Ghana over the next few
years. This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita
income. At the same time, to ensure an adequate flow of foreign exchange
resources to the country it would be appropriate to finance a portion of the
local costs of projects.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
33.      Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 loans totalling US$190.5 million and 17 credits
totalling US$206.0 million. Ghana is also a beneficiary of a Bank-financed
regional clinker project covering three countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and
Ghana). There are no IFC investments. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA Credits as of December 31, 1982 and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects.
34.      Bank Group lending in Ghana has been centered on power generation and
distribution, agriculture, transport and communications, water supply and DFC
operations. Power generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past commitments (32 percent). Bank Group involvement in the sector started
in 1962 with the construction of the Akosombo dam and power plant. Other pro-
jects in the sector include: the Kpong Hydroelectric project and three projects
for the rehabilitation and expansion of the power distribution network.
Alongside power generation and distribution, agriculture has been a major
focus of Bank Group lending, receiving 26.6 percent of the Bank Group's
lending to Ghana. The lending program in agriculture has covered oil palm,
cocoa, sugar, livestock, fisheries, and two regional smallholder projects
focussing on production of food crops and establishment of a system of support
services. Transportation is the third most important sector in Bank Group's
program in Ghana 24.3 percent of commitments). Projects financed in the
sector include: four road projects and a railway rehabilitation project. An
ongoing telecommunications project aims at improving and expanding domestic
telephone services in Accra and major urban centers. In the field of water
supply two projects have helped increase and improve the water supply in the
Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas. Two DFC operations
have financed investment projects in manufacturing and agro-industry under-
taken by small and medium enterprises.
35.      The serious economic difficulties which the country has experienced
in recent years have adversely affected implementation of most Bank Group-
financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the Government has con-
strained its ability to finance the local costs of projects, and the lack of
foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials and
spare parts required for the operation and maintenance of projects; the mass
exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighbouring countries, and demoralization,
absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have also
adversely affected project performance. Because of delays experienced in the
implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the disbursement
performance is falling behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross disbursements
have averaged about 25 percent of outstanding loan/credit commitments and at
end-December 1982 US$103.5 million remained undisbursed. The Bank Group has
held periodic implementation reviews with the Government to identify steps
which could be taken by Borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disburse-
ment on ongoing loans and credits.
36.      The lack of foreign exchange has had a particularly damaging effect
on the condition of the road network and the operation of the Ghana Railway



- 10 -
Corporation. An adequate transportation system will be a critical component
of the Government's economic recovery program both for the movement of exports
and the distribution of goods and production inputs. Implementation of the
Third Highway (Emergency Road Maintenance) Project (1980) should now begin to
improve and the Railway Rehabilitation Project (1981), which did not become
effective until late 1982, will start the process of bringing idle capacity
back into operation through the provision of spare parts and materials. In
the absence of any significant progress towards the adoption of essential
economic reform measures no new lending proposals have been considered by the
Executive Directors since 1981. Nonetheless, some work has continued on the
preparation and, more recently, appraisal and reappraisal of a portfolio of
projects which would support the introduction of an economic recovery program.
37.      The economic recovery program, referred to in Part I of this Report,
will, if it is to achieve its objective of returning the economy of Ghana to a
more satisfactory growth path, require substantial support from international
and multilateral institutions and the donor community as a whole. The
Government of Ghana has requested Bank Group assistance in supporting its
program and in helping to muster external assistance through co-financing and
more generally in the context of strengthened aid coordination. The extent to
which the Bank Group can provide financial, technical and other assistance,
act as a catalyst in attracting substantial co-financing and providing overall
leadership in bringing together donors and other aid institutions in a
concerted effort to provide a greatly increased flow of external resources
will be conditioned by the performance of the Government in carrying through
its economic recovery program.
38.      During the next year or so, while Ghana's economic recovery program
unfolds, it would be prudent to retain some flexibility in our program of
assistance in order to respond to changes in the behaviour of the economy and
the emergence of new priorities.
39.      The principal objectives which will guide the formulation of our
assistance program to Ghana are: (a) to support the adoption of policies
designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return it to a path
of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and improve capacity utilization of the
country's existing assets; (c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial pro-
duction, particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution;
and (d) to improve the country's essential infrastructure (transport, water
power) so as to relieve major bottlenecks to increased production. We also
plan a substantial increase in our economic and sector work to broaden and
deepen our understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
recovery process, to provide direction to our future lending program and the
design of project components.  In both our lending and economic and sector
work attention will be given to ways of strengthening the institutions
responsible for economic management and development spending.
40.      In reactivating our lending program we plan to respond to the sub-
stantial progress which has been achieved in putting together a major struc-
tural reform program and to support our dialogue with the authorities on
policy reform measures by providing a modest amount of project financing in



- 11 -
FY83. The water supply technical assistance and rehabilitation project pro-
posed in this Report is designed to support rehabilitation of the Accra/Tema
system which, through lack of maintenance, is in danger of collapse. An
energy project aimed at accelerating petroleum exploration will be presented
to the Executive Directors this year. We have also agreed with the Government
to explore the possiblility of providing a quick-disbursing import credit in
support of the economic recovery program to move essential agricultural inputs
and spare parts for the transport industry into the country particularly in
rural areas where the Government is working to absorb the returning Ghanaians.
Since the economic recovery program gives highest priority to, and its success
is largely dependent on, revitalizing Ghana's exports, an export rehabilita-
tion project has been included in the program. The project would be aimed at
halting and reversing declining production of key export industries (cocoa,
gold, mining and timber) as well as providing further support for the
rehabilitation of the trucking industry and port infrastructure.
41.      While the export rehabilitation project will address the most urgent
needs of the export sector, a more broadly based program of rehabilitation of
the country's economic assets will be required. In the near term we plan to
support a program to rebuild the network of trunk roads including a major
bridge reconstruction component, provide assistance to rehabilitate the power
distribution system and the oil refinery. In agriculture, further assistance
to the development of oil palm production is envisaged as well as for cocoa
given the overwhelming importance of this crop, at least in the short term,
for foreign exchange earnings and the substantial potential for rapid
increases in cocoa production. Projects with major rehabilitation components
are, therefore, likely to absorb the bulk of Bank Group resources for the next
few years as these are likely to show the highest benefits and quickest
returns. For the outer years and in the expectation that the recovery program
progresses satisfactorily, the Bank will begin to examine prospects for new
productive investments including providing support for education, health and
other important activities in the social sectors.
42.      Finally, in response to the Government's request, the Bank has agreed
to reactivate our resident mission in Accra by appointing a Resident Represen-
tative to fill the position which has been vacant for almost three years. The
Resident Representative is expected to take up his assignment by May 1, 1983.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
43.      In general, the water resources of Ghana are adequate but unevenly
distributed, ranging from abundant along the Volta River to limited in the dry
savannah regions of the north and southeast where annual rainfall is less than
750 mm. While ground water is exploited in most parts of the country, surface
water is widely used in the central and southern areas where it is plentiful.
44.      About 35 percent (or 4.4 million people) of Ghana's total population
have access to potable water supply systems. In urban communities (5,000
people and above) which account for about 30 percent of the total population,
some 86 percent (about 3 million people) have access to piped water supply



- 12 -
through individual connections, public standpipes or vendors. Of the remain-
ing 70 percent of the population, living largely ir rural communities, less
than 20 percent are currently served by public supplies, mostly from wells and
'boreholes generally equipped with hand pumps. The rest of the population
relies on shallow wells, streams and lakes. The average daily water consump-
tion ranges from 30 gallons per capita in Accra to 5-10 gallons per capita in
rural areas. While since 1976 the Government's policy has aimed at improving
water supplies in the rural areas to rectify the imbalance between the urban
and rural areas, only limited progress has been made to date due to the
country's difficult economic situation and the weak institutional capability
of the sector to plan and carry through development schemes. At the same
time, the urban water supply systems have undergone rapid deterioration in
recent years due to the lack of repair and maintenance resulting from the
country's scarce f'oreign exchange resources as well as to poor management and
operating inefficiency of the water corporation. As a result, the urban areas
have experienced severe shortages of water and supplies are frequently
interrupted. Components in the proposed project will help arrest this deteri-
oration and bring greater reliability to water supplies.
45.      The only public sewer system in Ghana operates in Accra although some
semi-public or private systems also exist in Accra and Tema. The Accra public
system covers only a small area, chiefly commercial and governmental premises
in downtown Accra. Lack of appropriate legislation and the high cost of con-
necting to the system have deterred connections. To redress the situation,
the Government has approved regulations which enable GWSC to declare sewer
connections to be mandatory in areas where the public system exists. GWSC is
also considering the possibility of offering financial assistance by way of a
deferred payments scheme to help potential consumers to have their properties
connected to the sewerage system. The population generally relies on septic
tanks, pit latrines or, in some areas of major urban centers, on night-soil
disposal by bucket latrines.
Sector Institution
46.      National responsibility for the overall planning, development, and
operations of public water supply and sewerage in Ghana is entrusted to the
Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation (GWSC), established as a wholly-owned
Government corporation under the Ghana Water and Sewerage Act of 1965. GWSC
operates under the general direction of the Ministry of Works and Housing.
GWSC's operating responsibility is divided between its Headquarters and nine
area/regional organizations which have primary responsibility for operation,
management and development in their respective areas/regions. An organization
chart for GWSC is shown in Annex IV. The Accra/Tema Metropolitan Area (ATMA)
has operations almost as large as the rest of GWSC's activities combined.
GWSC's policies are determined by a seven-member Board of Directors appointed
by the Government. The chief executive is the Managing Director.
47.      The rapid urbanization trend Ghana has experienced for the last two
decades--with the urban population increasing twice the overall rate of
population growth--has severely taxed the ability of GWSC to cope with the
increasing demand for public water supplies. Although some organizational and
operational improvements have been introduced in GWSC to reflect changing



- 13 -
circumstances, these efforts have been ad hoc and insufficient. Like many
other public corporations in Ghana, C-WSC suffers from a gross staff redundancy
at the lower level: out of a total staff of about 8,200, less than 700 are in
the professional and technical category. GWSC's inadequate salaries coupled
with the country's difficult living conditions have resulted in the attrition
of experienced senior and middle management personnel. Poor management,
inadequate staffing and financial resources and low operating efficiency have
all combined to seriously constrain GWSC from playing an effective role in
development of the sector. The Government recognizes the importance of
strengthening the institutional capability of GWSC through improved management
and organization, staff training and technical assistance. The proposed
project would be directly supportive of this strategy. More particularly as
regards training, the proposed project will provide urgently needed training
materials as well as training support through technical assistance and the
management improvement program. This would be by way of direct assistance to
GWSC's existing training facilities at Weija in ATMA and Kumasi in Ashanti
Region where, respectively, treatment plant operation and rural water supply
maintenance training are undertaken.
Sector Development and Bank Group Objectives
48.      As a result of national economic problems and the continued overall
deterioration of GWSC, planning for sector development has been inadequate and
projects have been initiated by GWSC on an ad hoc basis. In the last few
years, all major projects have been instituted with substantial external aid.
The Bank Group has assisted the sector with two projects, which were directed
towards improving water supply and sewerage systems in the Accra/Tema area
(see paragraphs 50-52 below). The Canadian International Development Agency
(CIDA) is assisting with the drilling of 2,500 wells in the Upper Region as
well as the rehabilitation of small water systems; CIDA is also preparing
another project in the Northern Region. In addition, German bilateral aid is
helping to provide 3,000 wells in the central and southern areas, as well as
to upgrade two municipal water supply systems. A Rural Water Supply and
Environmental Health Master Plan covering six other regions of Ghana was
completed in 1978 with UNDP financing. This master plan consists of a 15-year
program to provide water and sanitation to rural communities of 5,000 people
or less. Designs and tender documents for 20 communities were completed but
implementation has commenced only for the German-funded well drilling
program. The Accra/Tema Master Plan for Water Supply and Sewerage completed
in December 1981 provides a good planning basis for implementation of a
project deploying appropriate technology. Development planning in the
sanitation subsector is almost totally lacking. Although public sewerage is
the responsibility of GWSC, several private and semi-public systems exist;
responsibility for excreta disposal is assigned to the municipalities. The
proposed project would help to develop a national program by improving GWSC's
planning capabilities in sanitation, as well as in water supply, and to
delineate responsibilities between Government agencies for the provision of a
minimum of sanitation facilities in all areas.
49.      The Bank Group objectives in Ghana's water and sewerage sector are
to: (a) increase the proportion of population who have access to potable
water supplies, especially in rural and urban low-income areas; (b) improve



- 14 -
system reliability and sanitation in the urban areas through rehabilitation
and maintenance of the distribution network; (c) strengthen the financial
viability of the sector institution through the adoption of proper tariff
policies and operational improvements; and (d) strengthen the sector institu-
tion with emphasis on improving sector planning and project implementation
capacity. In line with these objectives, first priority would be given to
improving the management, operational and financial performance of GWSC as
well as carrying out urgent rehabilitation works to arrest further deteriora-
tion in the distribution network. At the same time, assistance would be
provided to undertake planning for expansion of the water supply system to
reach a greater proportion of the rural population as well as the urban low-
income areas.
Past Bank Group Involvement
50.      The Bank Group has financed two water supply and sewerage projects in
Ghana, Credits 160-GH and 499-GH, both of whlch were directed to ATMA. The
first project (US$3.5 million credit of 1969) assisted in expanding the water
supply distribution network in Accra/Tema and constructing a sewerage system
in central Accra. The project was completed in 1973 with a cost overrun of
about 32 percent and a time delay on the water supply and sewerage components
of six months and two years, respectively. The Operational Evaluation Depart-
ment (OED) project performance audit report (No. 1683 of July 29, 1977) on
this project conclulded that, while the objective of the water supply component
was met, the objective of the sewerage component was not met due to failure of
potential users to connect to the system.
51.      The second project, Credit 499-GH, for a US$10.4 million credit in
1914, was financed in parallel with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and
CIDA. It was intended to increase the installed capacity of ATMA to meet
existing and future needs for potable water for some 800,000 people in the
Accra/Tema metropolis and to extend water supply to some 170,000 people living
in adjacent rural areas. Although the IDA-financed component, including con-
struction of a 17 m-high earth dam at Weija, was completed in 1980, overall
project completion is now forecast for late 1983, about four years later than
originally envisaged. This is due to general materials and labor shortages
affecting civil works. Cost overruns on the foreign currency component have
been held to 16 percent by reduction of the project scope pertaining to the
distribution system extensions. A project completion report was issued in
December 1982.
52.      The institu-tion-building objectives of the first and second projects
have not been achieved, in part because of a very high turnover of GWSC's top-
level officers, lack of managerial autonomy from Government, and staff
redundancy at the lower level. The failure to develop institutional capabili-
ties and the lack of finance have prevented redressing some of the negative
impacts of the second water supply project, specifically the proliferation of
weeds in Weija Reservoir and an increase in the schistosomiasis prevalence
rate amongst villagers in the area. The proposed project will address this
particular problem with the introduction of a surveillance and monitoring
program (Section 3.03 draft Credit Agreement) for implemientation by GWSC and



- 15 -
other Government agencies. This program will provide the necessary data base
for preparation of a remedial program which could be developed for later
funding by the Bank Group.
Water Supply for Accra/Tema
53.      The Accra/Tema area is supplied from two sources:  the Kpong Water-
works on the Volta River downstream of Akosombo dam, located some 54 km north
of Tema; and the Weija waterworks, located some 15 km west of Accra, utilizing
the waters of the Densu River, impounded by the Weija dam which was financed
under the Second Water Supply Project (see map IBRD 15725 attached). The
total average treated water output at Kpong is 191,000 cu. m/day (42 mgd); for
Weija, 59,000 cu. m/day (13.0 mgd). When the new treatment plant being
constructed under the Second Water Supply Project is completed in 1983, the
capacity of the Weija complex will be 127,000 cu. m/day (28.0 mgd). Water
from Weija is conveyed to Accra in four mains. An additional transmission
main from Weija, financed under the second project, will be completed in
1983. Transmission from Kpong is via a 54-km 1,050-mm (42-inch) diameter main
which terminates in Tema. From Tema, water from Kpong is re-pumped to Accra
via a 800-mm (32-inch) diameter main. The critical Kpong-Tema and Tema-Accra
pipelines are in danger of failure, jeopardizing supplies to both Tema and
Accra, because the external protection of the pipes against corrosion has
failed and serious leaks are now frequent. Repairs on these lines are an
important component of the proposed project, based on an extensive field
survey component of the Accra/Tema Master Plan for Water Supply and Sewerage.
54.      The Accra/Tema distribution system includes a number of pressure
zones with distribution storage and booster pumping stations. Pressures are
frequently low or absent, the result of broken-down pumps, inadequate storage,
and a generally undersized distribution system. Approximately 230 km of
distribution mains were added under the two water supply projects financed by
the Bank.
55.      Approximately 90 percent of the 56,000 domestic (legal) connections
are metered. ThZre are also about 8,000 commercial, industrial, and institu-
tional meters. Metered consumption represents about 50 percent of the water
produced. Unaccounted for water is estimated at 35-40 percent, of which 20
percent may be counted as consumption at the 463 public standpipes, non-
metered connections, and in flushing/firefighting. Distribution system main-
tenance practices and equipment and spare parts to help reduce the serious
current unaccounted for water will be emphasized in the proposed project
through the installation or repair of meters at treatment plants, pumping
stations and public standpipes. Also, the project would rehabilitate and
extend the public standpipe system so that the present reliance in poorer
areas on water supply vendors can be reduced, resulting in considerable
savings to low-income consumers.
56.      The general physical plant of ATMA has deteriorated significantly in
recent years from a plethora of difficulties. Equipment also is run down and
mostly idle for lack of spare parts or obsolescence. For example, at recent
count only 15 out of a total of 85 ATMA vehicles were usable due to lack of
tires, batteries, or spare parts. Lack of adequate transport is an important



- 16 -
factor in'the decline of ATMA's overall maintenance standards. The proposed
project addresses this problem directly.
Sector Financing
57.      GWSC's investments in areas outside of ATMA have been financed
primarily from government contributions but in ATMA mainly from external
financing as well as some internally generated funds. GWSC's own revenues are
derived from tariffs which have five schedules. These have been set on the
basis of general affordability of service. They are highest in the more urban
areas such as Accra/Tema and lowest (about one third lower) in the rural
centers outside the regional capitals. Tariffs are expected to meet operating
costs in Accra/Tema, Secondi/Takoradi, and Kumasi, and to finance debt service
and a portion of investments in Accra/Tema. Other centers have required
operating subsidies from the Government, to whom GWSC also looks for capital
grants for investment projects. The high inflation which has prevailed in
recent years and the lack of timely tariff action has made it increasingly
difficult for GWSC to maintain revenues at a level sufficient to generate
income to cover operating costs even in large urban centers. At the end of
FY80, GWSC's gross fixed assets amounted to 0366 million (US$133 million).
GWSC's debt equity ratio stood at 21/79 and its current ratio at 1.4; if the
value of inventories is taken out the ratio becomes 1.1.  In FY80, GWSC did
not raise sufficient revenues to even cover its operating costs and receiv-
ables were high at the equivalent of 6 months of sales mainly due to lack of
transport for staff to take positive recovery action. It is expected through
the measures to be introduced under the project that the accounts receivable
will be reduced to about 3 months of sales. During FY80, GWSC had a total
deficit of 039 million of which 034 million was covered by the Government
operating subsidy. GWSC's financial outlook depends largely on the future
level of inflation and tariffs as well as its operating efficiency and system
reliability which are adversely affecting water sales revenue.
58.      The financial objectives of ATMA under the second IDA-financed
project envisaged a minimum rate of return on its revalued net fixed assets in
service of 3 percent in FY78 and FY79 and 7 percent in FY80 and thereafter.
These rates of return were forecast to produce cash flow sufficient to cover
operating expenses, debt service and 35 percent of the! cost of ATMA's invest-
ments. On the basis of historically valued net fixed assets in operation of
about 038 million, ATMA achieved a rate of return of 9.3 percent and 5.1
percent for FY78 and FY79, respectively, but negative rates since FY80. It
should be noted that ATMA's assets have not yet been revalued and there is
capital work in progress estimated at 096.4 million as at June 30, 1981 both
of which would adversely affect this earlier financial performance if they had
been reflected in the asset base. Additionally, substantial deficits are
estimated for FY81 (01.1 million) and FY82 (07.0 million) even after allowing
for Government compensation to GWSC/ATMA due to the delay in approving the
last tariff increase from July 1979 until February 1981. Neither ATKA, nor
the other two large urban centers, receive any recurrent cost subvention from
Government. In order to enable GWSC to improve its financial performance in
ATMA and other areas, Government approved a 125 percent increase in ATMA's
tariffs with effect from February 1, 1981; also effective from that date,
Government approved a 100 percent tariff increase for Kumasi and Secondi/Takoradi



- 17 -
and a 75 percent increase for all other areas. Unfortunately, these tariff
increases came too late for GWSC to avoid serious financial problems in 1981
and 1982. The Government is presently considering average tariff increases of
about 150 percent for GWSC consumers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
59.      The proposed project was conceived entirely as a technical assistance
project designed to strengthen the management of GWSC and to improve its
capacity for planning and implementing investment projects. A technical
assistance project was identified jointly by the Government, IDA and GWSC and
appraised by an IDA mission in November 1978. An IDA credit of US$3.2 million
to support the project was negotiated in February 1980.  Further processing of
this credit was, however, delayed because it was necessary for GWSC to
increase water tariffs; approval by Government and implementation occurred in
February 1981. In the meantime, at the request of the Government and GWSC,
the Association agreed to consider restructuring the scope of the project to
include urgent rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution facilities
in the Accra/Tema area in light of their rapid deterioration since the project
appraisal as well as to provide additional technical assistance. The
rehabilitation component was prepared by GWSC assisted by its consultant,
Tahal (Israel). The restructured project was appraised by an IDA mission in
November 1980 and negotiations took place in Accra, Ghana on August 12, 1981,
with the Ghana delegation led by Mr. Charles Quansah, Chief Economic Planning
Officer, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. Because of a further
delay in processing the credit, it was necessary to update the project cost
estimate and renegotiate the credit in January 1983.
Project Objectives
60.      The main objectives of the proposed project are to:  (i) strengthen
the managerial capabilities of GWSC as a whole including its headquarters and
area organizations so that GWSC may effectively plan and carry out further
development of the sector; (ii) improve GWSC's operating and financial perfor-
mance to ensure that GWSC functions as a viable and efficient sector institu-
tion; (iii) provide emergency maintenance and repairs to the Kpong-Tema-Accra
transmission pipeline and the distribution network in the Accra/Tema area; and
(iv) prepare detailed plans for suitable investment projects for possible
future Bank Group financing.
Project Description
61.      The proposed project would be implemented over the period 1983-1986,
and would include:
(a)  a management improvement program comprising a comprehensive review by
consultants, with recommendations for improvements, of GWSC's organi-
zation, management, operating, training and financial policies and
systems;



- 18 -
(b) the prov-ision of about 30 man-years of technical assistance to
strengthen GWSC's higher level staff and to assist in the
implementation of the consultants' recommendations resulting from the
aforementioned review;
(c) emergency repairs to and rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra steel
pipeline to include: (i) replacement of corroded pipe and recoating
of damaged sections with concrete encasement at stream crossings;
(ii) replacement of defective cathodic protection and repair or
replacement of defective valves; (iii) proVision of maintenance
equipment; and (iv) related consultant services for surveys, designs,
tender documents and construction supervision;
(d) provision of supplies to ATMA of spare parts, tools, water meters,
valves and fittings, maintenance vehicles and mopeds which are
required for emergency repairs and maintenance of the Accra/Tema
distribution network, improved meter reading, billing and collection,
as well as supplies and materials for installation of about 100 new
metered public standpipes and repair of about 250 existing public
standpipes and supply of teaching aids for the GWSC training schools;
and
(e)  provision of consultant services for:  (i) final engineering design
and preparation of contract documents, including updating of existing
documents for a future water supply and sanitation project; and
(ii) assistance in implementation of a surveillance program for the
Weija reservoir and Densu River.
Project Cost
62.      The total cost of the project net of taxes from which GWSC is exempt
is estimated at US$22.4 million, of which the foreign exchange component would
amount to US$13.0 million (58 percent) and the local cost component US$9.4
million (42 percent). Costs are based on March 1983 prices. Physical con-
tingencies are assessed at 12 percent. Price contingencies for foreign costs
are calculated at 18 percent for 1983, decreasing linearly to 6 percent per
annum by 1986. Local price contingencies are based on an annual inflation
rate of 50 percent, which is slightly less than prevailing rates of recent
years. Estimates for pipeline rehabilitation have been prepared by the con-
sultant (Tahal). Costs for the study under the management improvement program
are based on the acltual rates negotiated with the consultants who have been
selected by GWSC. The average man-month cost for the study is estimated at
US$11,000. The cost estimate for the technical assistance component is based
on the rates of similar internationally recruited experts in Ghana and the
average man-month cost is estimated at US$10,500 including salary, allowances,
housing and relocation expenses of appointed staff. Other consultant services
will be based on a percentage of proposed project cost or fixed fee; the
average of either is not expected to be more than US$9,000 per man-month.



- 19 -
Project Financing
63.      The proposed IDA credit of US$13.0 million would finance the full
estimated foreign exchange cost of all project items. The Government would
finance the entire project local cost amounting to US$9.4 million. The pro-
ceeds of the IDA credit would be provided to GWSC 75 percent in the form of
Government equity and 25 percent in the form of grant in view of GWSC's
already difficult financial situation and the significant technical assistance
component in the project. The equivalent of US$9.75 million of the IDA credit
and US$6.0 million of Government's contribution would be given as equity and
the equivalent of US$3.25 million of the IDA credit proceeds and US$3.4
million of Government's contribution would be made available in the forml cf
grant (Section 3.01(b) of draft Development Credit Agreement).
64.      The proposed IDA credit will finance all of the most urgently needed
rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra pipeline, including the recoating of
the 8.5km of 42-inch and 2.9km of 32-inch mains located in the areas of high-
est soil corrosivity and concommitantly the sections most frequently ruptured.
However, an additional 20.5km of 42-inch and 7.1km of 32-inch mains in areas
of lower soil corrosivity should also be recoated, for which Government with
IDA assistance is seeking to obtain co-financing of US$5.8 million. In order
to facilitate a possible c3-financed recoating of less urgent sections, the
proposed credit will finance engineering design and supervision costs for the
entire pipeline rehabilitation. Tender documents can be readily modified for
bidding under joint or parallel financing. The co-financed work will require
a contribution from Government of US$4.0 million equivalent in local
currency. The costs for this work are based on March 1983 prices together
with appropriate physical and price contingencies.
Project Implementation
65.      An implementation chart for the project components is snown in
Annex VII.  The recruitment of technical assistance personnel would be phased.
During the first phase, five senior level personnel are being employed for a
period of three years to fill the following line positions of GWSC: (a)
General Manager--to assume overall management of UWSC under direction of the
Managing Director, and to serve simultaneously as project manager; (b) Cor-
porate Planning Manager--to lead the G'WSC planning unit and to coordinaie tio
preparation of GWSC's long term investment plans; (c) Commercial Manager--to
direct commercial functions of GWSC with emphasis on the commercial operatiunF;
of ATMA; (d) Vehicle Workshop Superintendent--to manage the vehicle repair
workshop of ATMA and (e) Financial Controller--to manage the overall financec,
of GW23C. In order to expedite the first phase of technical assistance, the
General Manager and Financial Controller have been appointed, financed under a
Project Preparation Facility advance. The remaining three appointments would
be made before the effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 2.03(a),
draft Project Agreement and Section 5.01(b), draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). In four out of five of these positions, counterpart staff are avail-
able in GWSC. On-the-job training by the various technical assistance
personnel would be reinforced by formal training programs which would be
identified and developed by the Management Improvement Program.



- 20 -
66.      The Management Improvement Program (MIP) would be carried out in two
stages within the proposed project. The first stage would consist of a com-
prehensive consultant study of GWSC's legal status, statutory objectives,
planning and control systems, organization, operations, finances, staffing,
manpower development and training. This would be followed by an implemen-
tation stage to carry out the recommendations of the consultant study. The
first phase, which is expected to be completed in about six months, would
present the preliminary findings and an outline of the main recommendations
for action resulting from these findings, while the second phase, which would
require another 18 months after the first phase, would prepare detailed
proposals or operating procedures during implementation.  Upon completion of
the first phase study, the Government and GWSC would review with IDA the
preliminary recommendations of the study; obtain IDA's agreement on the action
to be taken on the basis of such recommendations and review; and implement
such action in accordance with a timetable acceptable to IDA (Section 3.02
draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.04, draft Project Agree-
ment). In order to ensure a proper integration of GWSC staff in the actual
execution of the consultant study, GWSC would assign three of its senior staff
members to work full time with the consultants (Section 2.02(b), draft Project
Agreement).
67.      The consultant selected for the MIP study is a joint venture of
Public Administration Services (U.S.) and Tahal Consulting Engineers (Israel)
in association with the Ghanaian consultant, Architectural and Engineering
Services Corporation. Appointment of the consultants for the MIP study would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01(a), draft
Development Credit Agreement).
68.      GWSC is retaining Tahal for various other consulting services that
are part of the proposed project. Specifically, they have been retained for
the detailed field surveys, designs, preparation of tender documents and
supervision of construction for rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra pipe-
line. Additionally, Tahal will undertake studies of hydrological data,
including inspection of existing streamflow and meteorological stations of the
Densu River basin. These studies are needed to update and refine previous
studies in order to control discharges from Weija Reservoir to the maximum
allowable level in regard to downstream scour conditions and flood hazards to
downstream villagers and structures. Environmental and public health problems
will be addressed under the much broader aspect of the MIP.
Procurement
69.      Procurement for pipeline rehabilitation and contracts for goods above
US$250,000 would be under international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group Guidelines. Prequalification would be required. All works for
installation and repair of public standpipes would be carried out under con-
tracts procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
(US$0.19 million), or on force account by GWSC's services, according to a work
program and procedures to be approved by the Association (Section 2.01(b)
draft Project Agreement). Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to
cost more than the equivalent of US$100,000 but less than US$250,000, would be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding, locally advertised, conducted in



- 21 -
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to US$1,250,000. Contracts for the purchase of goods esti-
mated to cost less than the equivalent of US$100,000 would be procured on the
basis of negotiated purchases after solicitation of price quotations from at
least three established and reliable suppliers, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to US$500,000. All technical assistance positions and consulting
services under the project would be filled or undertaken by persons with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
(Section 2.02, draft Project Agreement).
Disbursement
70.      The proposed credit would be disbursed to cover the foreign costs
of:  (i) technical assistance totalling US$2.4 million; (ii) consulting
services fur the Management Improvement Program totalling US$1.5 million;
(iiS) cc'noulting services for the rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra
pallne, reservoir surveillance and project preparation totalling US$1.0
million; (iv) supplies and equipment for maintenance of the Kpong-Tema-Accra
pipeline totalling US$C.6 million; (v) water meters, vehIcles and mopeds for
GWSC totalling US$0.4 million; (vi) cathodic protection, re^oating, replace-
ment and repairs of 'Vhe Kpong-Tema-Accra pipeline totalling US$4.0 million (or
6'5 percert of lo.al expenditures); (vii) spare parts and tools :ur GWSC
tota3ling US$0.4 million (or 90 percent of local expenditures); (viii) 50
percent cf expenditures for public standpipes totalling US$0.1 million, and
(ix) refund of PPF advance totalling Uj$0.4 millicn. The remaining balance of
US$2.2 million would be unallocated.
Future Financial Performance
71.      An assurance has been obtained from GWSC that ATMA's fixed assets
would be revalued by June 30, 1984, and thereafter revalued. annually in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA (Section 2.09, draft Project
Agreement) and such procedures to be agreed with IDA by December 31, 1984
based on the consultant's recommendations. For future financial targ-ts, GWSC
would be required to achieve, with respect to its ATMA operations, a three
percent rate of return on its currently valued net assets in operation for
FYFI5 or,wards instead of seven percent as under Credit 499-CH (Section 4.03,
draft Project Agreement) which is not achievable due to lack Gf tariff actio::
between 1977 and 1981.  With a three percent rate of return ATMA would meet
its operating costs, debt service and about 50 percent of its capital
investment program and working capital requirements.  The revenue coverage of
1.5 times debt service would be maintained for ATMA (Section 4q04 draft
Project Agreement). It is intended to pursue other financial targets for GWSC
which would ensure that GWSC maintains an ability to meet its immediate
obligations by requiring a ratio of current assets (less inventories) to
current liabilities of 1:1 (Section 4.06 draft Project Agreement). Further-
more, GWSC would be required to generate aggregate revenues from tariffs and
charges to meet 80 percent of its aggregate operational expenditures and debt
service for all areas (Section 4.05, draft Project Agreement). All these
financial targets are achievable by FY85 if tariffs are increased by 150
percent during FY83, in accordance with the proposal presently before Govern-
ment, and a further 30 percent in FY85. The revaluation of ATMA's assets may



- 22 -
require tariff action in excess of that indicated and will be reviewed at the
appropriate time. Recurrent cost subvention for GWSC as a whole could be
contained to within 20 percent of operating expenditures if the same tariff
increase is pursued as for ATKA.
Project Justification and Risks
72.      The project would make a major contribution in assisting the Govern-
ment to strengthen GWSC and enable it to administer the water supply and
sewerage sector efficiently, by: (i) reassessing the relevance of its manage-
ment and operating structure, systems, and policies, and taking remedial
actions as necessary; (ii) providing technical assistance to fill in temporary
gaps in GWSC's management capability, to help implement needed corrective
measures and to train staff; and (iii) rehabilitation of the Kpong-Tema-Accra
pipeline and effective maintenance and repair of key distribution facilities
in the Accra-Tema metropolitan area. The project does not lend itself to the
calculation of an economic rate of return as the project has substantial
technical assistance and the rehabilitation components are of an emergency
nature. The risk to Ghana and the GWSC by not providing the proposed invest-
ment is serious, leading to continued deterioration of GWSC's personnel and
physical resources and the danger of a major breakdown of the water supply
system for Accra-Tema. While the project would face no unusual technical
risks, the implementation of the management improvement program would require
close monitoring arnd continued Government support to GWSC would be needed if
the institutional objectives of the project are to be achieved. The
experience from previous projects with GWSC/ATMA has been fully considered in
preparation of the proposed project, and it is believed that risks will be
reduced by the phased early deployment of the technical assistance experts.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHIORITY
73.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and
GWSC and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
74.      In addition to the features of the Development Credit and Project
Agreements which are referred to in the text and listed in Section III of
Annex III, additional conditions of effectiveness would be the appointment of
three key te^hnical assistance personnel (para. 65) and consultants to under-
take the management study (para. 67).
75.      I ay. satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
76.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
March 7, 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  1
GHANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE5GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    -  OST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             238.5                                   MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOKE              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       62.3                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    200.0        270.0      420.0                 1053.2                    1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         99.9        252.8     258.1                   610.1                     713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  6804.0          8614.0   11679.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.3            29.1       35.9                   28.3                      47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          22.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            70.4
YEAR STATIONAR'Y POPULATION IS REACHED                    2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          28.5         36.1      47.4                   54.7                       35.8
PER SQ. KlM. AGNICULTURAL LAND    104.0          139.4      181.6                 129.9                      420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.5         45.8      46.7                    46.0                      44.3
15-64 YRS.                            52.9         51.6       50.6                   51.1                      52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOV.I                     2.6          2.7        2.7                   2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 4.4          2.4       3.0                    2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                 9.2          4.6        5.1                    5.2                       4.6
CRUDE BERTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        48.8         49.3       48.3                   47.2                      41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        23.9         20.3       16.5                   15.7                      12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.3          3.3        3.3                    3.2                       2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNEAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          8.3       33.5/c
USERS (PERCENT O  MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            1.5        4.47.
FOGS AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             93.0        101.0       82.0                   90.7                     100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Cf
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     91.8          97.5      85.0/c                 93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             42.9         50.6      44.47-                 54.8                       71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         12.6         16.6       14.97-?                17.0                      18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        30.6         24.6       19.3                   23.9                      15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT EIRTH (YEARS)    39.7            44.6       49.5                   51.0                      56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOLSAND)                             142.9        121.6      102.8                  118.5                     104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPUILATION )
TOTAL                                  ..         35.0      35.0/d                    ..                      59.1
URBAN                                  ..        86.0       86.0/d                   ..                       83.1
RURAL                                  ..         14.0      14.0/6                   ..                       39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         55.0      56.0/d
URBAN                                  .,         92.0      95.0/d
RURAL                                  ..         40.0      40.0/6d
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           21600.0      12914.5/f  9922.5/c               14185.2                    4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5430.2/e    1065.6/f   605.B/c                2213.2                     1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1287.9         756.1     660.1/c               1036.4                     641.7
URBAN                                  ..        772.4     830.D7/                430.8                      538.3
RURAL                                  ..       886.8      734.7 7               3678.6                    2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..         ..                     ..                      25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          4.7
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
AVERALC NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..            ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



- 25 -                                                ANNEX I
TABLI 3A                                              Page  2
OGA1IA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA OINRT
GHANA                           REPERNCE GROUPS (WRIGHTED AVZENGE
____- MOST RECSNT ESTIVATE)=
MOST RECENT          HlDDLM   7NCOI ICZ         TATEjMam
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATZ /l   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAIARA  NORTH AFRICA & M7DDLE  AST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYZ     TOTAL                 38.0         64.0      71.0/L                  83.3                      8S.7
KALE                  52.0        73.0      80.071                   96.1                    104.5
FEMALE               25.0         54.0      62.Off                   80.4                     72.0
SECONDARYt   TOTAL                  5.0         14.0      36.0/1                  15.3                     39.7
MALE                   9.0        21.0       45. 07                  19.4                     49.3
FEMALE                 3.0        18.0      28.071                   11.3                     29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  12.6          23.3       3.3/c                   4.7                     10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.4         29.6      27.6/c                  38.6                     34.1
SECONDARY                          16.2         17.0      20.77c                  23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        27.0jj    30.2            ..                   35.6                      43.3
CONSUNP-ION
XSMNG2  CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.6       6.8/c                  31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         42.7         81-6     106.1                    71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          O.l/         1.9       4.4                    17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GCERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  30.0         34.0      30.1                    19.1                     31.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           2.2       O.1/c                   0.6                      1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOLSANDS)      2918.8       3421.2    4326.2
FEMALE tPERCENT)                   42.6        42.1       41.3                    36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE  PERCENT)              64.0         58.0      53,0                    56.5                     42.4.
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 14.0        17.0       20.0                    17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.9         39.7      37.0                    37.0                     26.0
MLE                                  50.0         46.6      43.9                    46.9                     46.2
FEMALE                               36.0         33.0      30.4                    27.2                      5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.2       1.3                      2.3                      1.9
INCOMZ DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     307.0                   507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0                   200.6                    178.6
ESTIXATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     156.0                   523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 .           .      130.0                   203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                      ..                     22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                      ..                     30 9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arit2metic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /a Ages 6 and over;  /f 1964;  /B Prizary
education covers ages 6-11 years and secondary ages 12-19 years, earlier data for primary covers 6-15
years and secondary 16-19 years.
May, 1981



- 25-A1E 
_______________________                                                               Page    3
ScN-     itoto,gh the  uoec daoteofr-  too-r    --111lf  ,lodged the coasteiat, d -eliehle. Mr ohold  T-e he toted rhe  rhap coyot At tte-
.eiotonll  ct.er. Iht  b-t-o   of th. loc  of tro.rdadAf_ _roo   o  cocft                      -ed tp dtfIe.    oattot  olcatgtt dote.MIc  cute A--con
che.., oefl t  derto  oder  of anboit-d, lolot    cde. cod                   -ctct ictt b colt  dtfcts ba hno               _ottc.
The  rfaroce$ao.to  cc (f.t....c.act          .I occuct clo     --ctoo e   oa 2t) o o--cY grouP riot. tocfut       -ftrorg  loco-   that the co-t- gra
ofte0   tjn   onr   rop   t             tt   Itt-s    oittlopt            grou  where  Hiddle foo-  torth Afrlhe ndrddeMt  ia chl-t-eo                    . laoo  of o ne
Aoolo-cattcal " afttio..        It tIc  of--oc  grou  dtto tile avrgsacpoaatccithar    rteet                             t  for each ttd-t-o nod  hoo   otly ote
euolyo   It  oucr  Icoc--a  bAe d-t  for that tdfceo    uto-  tIc coverag  of -o-o-te  -teo  r he  oto                          dtoda t  tho orot1iitity of data
foti- ...uo ..     ara.    oplat  loadib   tro  crb tod   taa   1979 data.                     -rla, and _rnIf dto,tdd hO torte  ocfnlo            .aht  ftcc-lud
forco-        ctre   -.to    - ud kilthat  -uat-  or to 1a   flto   1010 dt.-                    ha'ltlct,0cttue-torhlanoaaacueptuau-    tt
-'i'.                            1-               dll~~~~~~~~~~h ut lace  oa    I-fdta d.  fchlteoaucco-do   cctplpcty
taIrpouta'at   otrfcctoct loottat ohAll r   toc    roe  al                                            tetar         oatSObAI.;  taldr.Mre   opdaa  hoceer  tooud Ib utth
1 10,  au  af    Ata                                                                            -t-al ctte ,  are iedeff`  eTc.) edcich aCt-  Aoeotooccosc
dtttoo ud eco,ldd  A licld r-op  of todi-l  ototl                 Forrn  e
MtNMMC CONStlftlltt  PER CAPITA ~- ccul  aoopto           f cour-risl  -oty bout                      tlcol -ucpceecrhu   hoepfcato truaOt   entor                    -"lgtca    eatec
data.                                                                           ductattoce pot tttcctoalted 9- fo 1979Aau  -.0.1cc  of a ,toad- 00r  le1    age
PtrttLuitfft Otto ttSil. ueilftuftot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-I~ :f.  -
dtffcrofdeftl   oot ofa,tara    Ya  eeAU         oearit cof dat r.oercltonc   A horero   ode  ooo  -y sot he   cluad~ to
asotgaoaatstuc    III. 1100. uto  1000 da to                       rho loacohoOd  for etactatttaa  cuocoece
rootttt rteo  fc                                                                           hartetohe obeceo-cndos--ot.acna 0d  art-,bcoe0.0
peacr -nt co  il I    aco    outta    ojaea.   a  a                 a   oluro  oondce-d                         roc  toetuaa.tontl  tuldnort  ta
totu  oartot;a  toton  au ao at  dat  to-tetly toO"I feoly ft   ue.aelre    eP,                      otrp    Mr.tgoold   ooprorhecttr
Orc lfot totpucass: oro fa  ota  tapi. cathe -o-ric  o  thta  -anrit Itue-aotpld ec.
tollttoetcataltatacetatltauorrtpeoito  aoa                                       catsoltttotytracrte-irgl-oalabu.udono
It    ib talectile etoco-  o1 ht...tlt  at0 00.5. tatne f-in caa                         t-dntr tettg  a-tl tl-oorAttpM   ttgfar,a   oa.te
cau_alet _r_oul  acto   als  acts -doo  -lea.aiao   olo    oofatc   no.adtrt  o   ta    atat
retclttatorait t     _to _to   lot   OO00   oot   ltoo    oetoc
atlcottoor2-ailaaoa.-oo   toot-0 rlyaebntadsaoadtaotioooofeoctiaiic                       oMo-aff-iMIo-
trb  aatt         oi   -o;tjcOtpcou.Alce                                                                      -holoo   --enace         .     ..
octaoon  utauit     aettctooooaltia  uooutogonttitaPreu1tcioo  -cra,  ol  od  ool  -Ira.cAu.  ol  ud a-l
toal  peer 60M.  9o  to  roar of7 drcc-       f  oou-cnuecctaOca                              ct tuurctthoo        I ta...  ai --l o -rhe- pl,-     ,Ii~- looand  e  ho    -drco
s.ica--l  -d               -ldutetorcqa- ee-  itc   loaf" peane -of aprvdtiuy  ntuat
Ors  -.uttoipcautcoOi ouuo    iopec  he   tttaonpcoaotocprodo  sano,  cetoout   rtaccc  oaoogMaorotoa  t  cffa
alt  elalottoc.                                                           oaotoflnooaen    cioeaontnodrcontrecr,asert-
Ot.uatlot-  rN4" ..... .d. .
1o6et  1era;  lM.91d  utd1000 dao                                                           ncuetahta.   oorro,00ohcraoxAseoc  tcct  it-pa
PCi-ctt  le Rteei  Lec               ipee.ical--doou-  -roi rutr  ot tald-teaercu ofto autrctatoAted 101 tefr  eta t                                                                dit
iicec eotM ir. corn1 fahccaoa          - -      dticu  toto   nor  19oi60t   at70  cid-ot 19t   rttee   e   ttiudgo.oto)-di pe  o   oelnafo   a
tilor  roas; .auatt  f     4o- -at   eoc tceodo   to160 1     ad-t 60                    roo   -ulctet   ttte ZLotcoeing.~J
etiooucoauoacr,urortldtoo).ooeraieofuoe0rt                                                    ffacao-oorc       . Snr ttocedoo"I,a-f    atincItnrcddca
of  anh-oano  fotootouo  aarot  o  otaoalfult  oanto  pcoue           gucaloall  pn  houcr  ppouoso  sclat  actrsruIirecler
FOOD ANDlonoITI-oao  coa   bo ooitdatltoaou- tsata                                                    rccaro    if t          to tansotter .ge ,rtIoofleecrofea
ohtoofahdbataior   t-i  patl  fc  ssilnt-ooca   uoocno teectr  inctoto   ftooluto  rooatof    Oea  teerrorot
a-l coaas  eoe  Itt co- c                         .. t....uttir  f   olc -ooo-ioeoa o-eapr'fdf-nooornodaa
~~~~~~~~21                                       "'d~~oilclo    rae    rtict   cresdr   ecolce    ttototee
___-________                                                                                        to toe '1totia ' if180dbl.  ai   toao- eoac at taaca -Coa   .... ctoeth.
-pro-t_     o   a   ca  oedi e. Oaatc   t ar  statS- -,.          i   s   a    n                    alr  acid  ua-d     ott ot -c tcaadat                      -Atcoott loe-a  ..oea
fetaapta ouoto ofaaiuppojpo  ctut  f r07arearost - ceput-  -It.                   ertitaorA         a oeoido -Itt. eAa.dt. 00-Iotesene I.l sruct,  arc..
h-a h.dec      . ohtfl  co61 atto acacr1c77 d-eos  otfaot,itro   esctccual     il   loaacl   ae
aPortei,  at0rt 00_0toora                 tat eppti- to-uad   tC--L teed, ted,                    faltctelrnoosltoceoprrtg    lhoaliofno
utaslattte   tfo    rntit  sad t-ac  tt Oictr-ant.   le...iR.-                                dO  aloa(tcio      ,ur  oc   ofrui   tatp  Attrl-                         
ntce-ld   leoc a-Y  1961-65l 1a9otaO  d 107 daf.06.171sd190Or..
tttettc  fitoto   f  001pott-h da    oOa  orasofeia-da                                            1100,t- ot  au  torI-  Otto  Obloc  crc head  ori       -o srttolbry
tictpcotta,  f atat t  ~ata ataula     -- otoe    dcooc,.   h ecpcaad ...ottg   I-ta  atctr  of -nib  to -iatt   end  Ptog tAt   40nu--
urdeoetorrattattte   fiiuioeottaoicchottnIil70sct                                    ccrotoatoonrtoeoracatco...c
aoso  potthtoatihtno  artI  t td,prtar  I  P0  o  hehhcdMataItfoeoaoa   oto- totoofntatttr  ofr  1  nd60co  or
Otra  cor  leoop;196-ES,a At cod105  dtt.r                                              tc-cilanoial tailorA fora-
miedaafahadto  cul  rato; 900. 19 00  tO19000-. ca..o aeaceltott.-,icb     _li                                                          l     11bl 
.6CcMocctaor 00Oloh lotar   - darec cuto,  of  tec  of  aftrccoold -oc-oll                    lyo ochttt-  ant, ten   ornotot  s        I.  of.,  I_ott  tetet
cc banal;  9ff. 1971  nd lIPI daa.                              aod siluld ae toarereted  cOl ooco-deAyb 1Co           - ceottoc.     11_1
tout-tc-As-it Ma (ret rtoattl-  .ooo  dote of% .tuo   coast Io  fear                            t     .....e .hoaaPorrtce   oc   f0  c  oco      re   n   oe
ofne-    ernh4-d      io b  lottIhi    Oiif.                            --911-- toAoldr.aolo    sot   seatoi  .ta   ooolotAteett     it
ttoestodat Pte -lerdo  oPrntttol     aat  ro                   t rural f  1,    -  oc--tnttsoi   deot  ata   tneeouOtn-o    rbtcadt 
betof  ead   ihnco  ocat.os  nuot)Altnuctcootbl,7aecocf                                ffoeba
otifrerd uo       .  teto  i-It -et-tl  etrn  of- tha  il-a1.    aosesc                     Msttd    tlre  tacAtuu5PAt-re  fres -d e   crte)                              ro
rscoolsoccehtdapctctt   coo-hft-olrootatsocol                                              ndbyt-ttnotoeepetect.hecoctyieeiarc5netue



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
GHANA ECONOMIC DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1980: US$420
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, Constant Prices)
Cedis Min.               %                     1900-80
GNP at Market Prices                    37,778.6              100.00                   0.25
Gross Domestic Investment                2,188.4                5.79                  -8.40
Gross National Saving                    1,934.8                5.12                  -7.39
Current Account Balance                   -253.6               -0.67                     --
Export of Goods, NFS                     3,482.7                9.22                  -6.25
Import of Goods, NFS                     3,772.5                9.99                 -6.70
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE
Output in 1978                         Labor Force, 1970
Cedis Min.              %                Min.         %
Agriculture                             12,741.5               60.71          1.787         57.2
Industry                                 2,523.8               12.03           .485         15.3
Services                                 5,720.8               27.26           .861         27.5
Total                                   20,986.1               100.0          3.133        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
-------------------Central Government-------------------------
Cedis Min.      % of GDP 1980       Cedis Min.   % of GDP 1981
Total Revenue and Grants                3,279.3          8.64              4855.3             8.31
Exceptional Receipts                          0              0                  0                 -
Total Expenditure and Net Lending    7,985.9            21.03              9702.9            16.60
Overall Deficit (-)                    -4,706.6        -12.40            -4847.6             -8.29
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1975      1976    1977       1978    1979    1980    1981
--------(Million Cedis Outstanding End Period)---------------
Money and Quasi-money                     1,387      1,903   3,044    5,131   5,942   7,949  12,029
Bank Credit to Public Sector              1,219      1,966   3,203    5,636   6,537   8,481  14,043
Bank Credit to Private Sector               306        385      560       739     796      940   1,342
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-money as
% of GDP                               26.3       29.2    27.3      24.4    22.6    20.9    20.6
General Price Index (1977=100)             29.6       46.2   100.0    173.1   267.3   401.2   868.6



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-80)
1979        1980      1981 1/                             US$ Min.        Z
(US$ Million)
Cocoa Beans               596.8      62.35
Trade Balance                164.4        84.3        1.2         Cocoa Products             87.4       9.13
Exports                  1041.1    1,159.5       766.3         Timber Logs                34.2       3.57
Imports                 -876.7   -1,075.2    -765.1           Timber Sawn                 21.9       2.29
Timber Products             3.5        .36
Invisibles (Net)                37        13.3       20.3         Gold                       86.3       9.02
Services                    -39       -70.1     -66.6          Diamonds                   12.3       1.28
Transfers                    76        83.4      86.9          Manganese                  13.3       1.39-
All Other Goods           101.5      10.61
Current Balance               27.4       -92.2    -155.8
Capital Accounts             177.9       155.3       74.4         Total                     957.2      100.0
Official Capital (Net)    196.8         133.9      119.0
Private Capital (Net)       -18.9        21.4      -44.6
Arrears payments            -90.5       -79.1      141.2
EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER, 1981 3/
Others 2/                     55.0       -45.0      -97.2
US$ Min.
Overall Balance              169.8       -61.0      -35.4         Public Debt, Incl.
Gross International                                                  Guaranteed                      1,339.0
Reserves (End of Period)  193.0         197.0      148.0         Total Outstanding and
Disbursed M&LT                      955.6
RATE OF EXCHANGE
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981
February 1973 - June 18, 1978                                                                             Z
US$ = 1.15
Public Debt, Incl.
Since August 26, 1978                                               Guaranteed                           8.9
US$ - 02.75                                             Total Outstanding
and Disbursed                       8.9
IBRD/IDA LENDING (JANUARY 31, 1982)
IBRD        IDA
Outstanding
and Disbursed          128.8     110.6
Undisbursed                30.8       95.8
Outstanding, Inc.
Undisbursed            159.7      206.4
1/    Provisional estimates subject to change.
2/    Includes errors and omissions.
_/    Actual data not available.  Estimates only.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDIT (as of December 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                          Amount (US$)
Credit    Fiscal                                               Less Cancellation 1/
Number      Year            Borrower          Purpose          Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Five loans and twelve credits fully disbursed                  104.5   89.9
531-GH         1975     Republic of Ghana   Oil Palm                    13.6      1.1
1122-GH        1975     Post & Telecom-       Telecommuni-
munications          cations           23.0              10.3
1180-GH        1975     Republic of Ghana   National Invest-
ment Bank       10.0              0.8
1181-GH        1975     Republic of Ghana   Ashanti Cocoa    14.0                 1.2
1182-GH        1975     Republic of Ghana   Second Highway   18.0                 2.2
1291T-GH 2/   1975      Republic of Ghana   Agricultural
Development      21.0              6.3
901-GH         1979     Republic of Ghana   Second NIB                  19.0     15.6
1009-GH        1980     Republic of Ghana   Agricultural
Development             29.5      26.8
1029-GH        1980     Republic of Ghana   Third Highway              25.0      10.2
1170-GH        1981     Republic of Ghana   Railway                    29.0    29.00
Total                                           190.5  206.0
of which has been paid                           38.5    2.6
Total now outstanding                           152.0  203.4
Amount sold                    0.4
of which has been repaid      0.4                 0.0
Total now held by Bank
& IDA                                           151.6  203.41
Total undisbursed                                20.8   82.7    103.5
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
_/   Interest subsidy fund (Third Window).



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 2
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (Status as of December 31, 1982)
Credit No. 531     Oil Palm Project; US$13.6 million Credit of March 5,
1975; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Planting programs have been satisfactorily completed with a total of
about 5,200 ha as per original target. Problems had been encountered in
finalizing acquisition of 1,000 ha of land needed to complete the project.
These were, however, solved even though compensation of farmers is lagging
behind. The project is now in the position to complete the planting program
of 5,200 ha. Problems of mill contract and related foreign exchange shortfall
were also resolved and construction activities of a 15-ton ffb/hr oil mill are
on schedule. The construction program of workers' housing, however, continues
to be slow due to lack of building materials. A brick and tile plant is now
being installed which would help overcome the shortage of building
materials. The Chairman of the Board of GOPDC has still not been appointed.
The contract of IRHO, which was managing the project, has been extended by the
Government up to March 1983 at the Government's expense.
Loan No. 1181      Ashanti Region Cocoa Project: US$14 million Loan of
December 23, 1975; Effective Date: February 23, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project consists of replanting and maintaining hybrid cocoa in the
Ashanti Region. Cumulative planting to date is about 38,000 acres (excluding
abandoned farms), out of the combined Bank and BADEA appraisal target of
42,500 acres. The major difficulty met by the project's efficient management
has been insufficient farmer response due to an unattractive producer price
for cocoa. The project's planting program was also severely affected by the
1977 drought which caused heavy losses in newly replanted areas, and made a
second replanting in 1978 necessary. The project also faced problems of fuel
shortages, labor migration and procurement of nursery raw materials. In
October 1981, when the project had achieved about 91 percent of the appraisal
target, it was decided, with the agreement of the Government and the Bank, to
terminate planting activities and aim at consolidating the planted areas
through an appropriate maintenance program. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by end June 1983.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 3
Loan No. 1291-T    Upper Region Agricultural Development Project:
US$21 million Loan of June 28, 1976; Effective Date:
April 11, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has two principal aims: raising agricultural production
and hence farm income, and establishing permanent farm support systems. The
recent situation in Ghana, characterized by severe breakdowns in communica-
tions and services, severe shortages of most basic commodities, and budget
cuts, has severely affected the project. The problems have been compounded by
poor management performance which has led to inadequate maintenance of much of
the equipment, loose store controls and poor staff morale. The project is now
under new management and, following some revision and scaling down of objec-
tives, progress has been made in several important areas. However, in the
last year, the Government's inability to procure adequate quantities of ferti-
lizer, due to a severe shortage of foreign exchange, has severely affected
project objectives. The Government has placed an order to procure about
43,000 tons of fertilizers for the whole country this year and recently gave
the Bank an assurance that an adequate amount will be provided for the
project.
Credit No. 1009    Volta Region Agricultural Development Project: US$29.5
million Credit of April 22, 1980; Effective Date:
March 31, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which is in its third year of implementation, seeks to
raise agricultural production and farm incomes in the Volta Region of Ghana
through the provision of basic agricultural services. The project is being
implemented by the Regional Office of the Ministry of Agriculture. A Farmers'
Services Company has been established and key project positions have been
filled. The project is being affected, as are all our projects in Ghana, by
the deteriorated economic situation. Particularly worrisome is its inability
to obtain fertilizer needs. The project distributed only 540 tons of ferti-
lizers in the 1982 cropping season, which was inadequate to meet the estimated
pre-project recurrent fertilizer needs of 7,000 tons. A part of the fertili-
zers ordered by the Government for the 1983 cropping season is expected to be
made available for the project.
Loan No. 1180       National Investment Bank Project:  US$10 million Loan
Credit No. 594      of December 23, 1975;  Effective Date:  March 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project provides for a US$10 million loan to the National
Investment Bank (NIB) to help finance industrial, agro-industrial and tourism
development projects. The loan has progressed satisfactorily with about
US$0.1 million remaining uncommitted (to take care of price increases under
approved sub-loans) and approximately US$9.2 million disbursed. The insti-
tutional and procedural improvements introduced under the project have had
positive effects on NIB's operational performance. However, the deteriorated
economic situation has led to generally low production levels and the failure
of some projects. The quality of NIB's portfolio has suffered, and loan
arrears have now reached a level that jeopardizes the institution's viability.



- 32 -
Annex II
Page 4
Loan No. 1122       Telecommunications Project:  US$23 million Loan of
June 10, 1975;  Effective Date:  January 23, 1976;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution has suffered delays mainly caused by disruptions
due to political upheaval and by delays in civil works due to shortage of
building materials in the country and foreign exchange limitations for
import. Arrangements were made to import building materials such as cement
and steel utilizing Bank loan allocation; these have been received and build-
ing construction is in progress. Project completion is expected around June
1984, about five years behind schedule. An action plan has been prepared by a
recent supervision mission with the agreement of GPT and the Government to
ensure timely completion of the project. GPT's financial situation is unsa-
tisfactory and the Government has been urged to permit GPT to substantially
increase its tariffs which is long overdue. Whilst progress on the physical
execution of subcomponents is generally in accordance with targets set in the
aciton plan, Government has yet to approve GPT's proposals for increase in its
tariffs.
Loan No. 1182       Second Highway Project:  US$18 million Loan and US$10
Credit No. 594      million Credit, both of December 23, 1975;  Effective
Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project includes assistance to (i) Ghana Highway Authority (GHA)
to strengthen maintenance management and planning, execute a four-year mainte-
nance program including comprehensive training, reconstruct 16 miles of road,
and study feder road needs; and (ii) the Bank for Housing and Construction,
with related technical assistance, to enable them to onlend to domestic
contractors. The output of the road maintenance program was disappointing,
although private contractors performed better than GHA force account in the
severely adverse climate caused by Ghana's economic difficulties. The Third
Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project provides further assistance for road
maintenance.  The road construction component is expected to be completed in
early 1983; the closing date was postponed to March 31, 1983.
Credit No. 901      National Investment Bank Project:  US$19 milliom IDA
EEC/SAC No. 7       Credit and US$6 million EEC Special Action Credit of
October 26, 1979; Effective Date: May 14, 1980; Closing
D)ate: December 31, 1983
Under the project the Government of Ghana onlends to NIB US$24.2
million, of which US$12.2 million are being utilized to finance capital
investments, and US$12 million (including US$6 million EEC Special Action
Credit) to finance imported raw materials and spare parts. Beneficiaries are
manufacturing enterprises, agro-industries and related services. US$0.5
million will be utilized by the Government to finance consulting services for
its export program, and US$0.3 million are being utilized to finance technical



- 33 -
Annex II
Page 5
assistance for NIB. Forty-four working capital sub-loans totalling US$5.9
million and 17 capital goods sub-loans amounting to US$5.5 million have been
approved. Disbursements amount to US$4.0 million. The project suffers from
the same shortcomings as the previous one (Loan 1180). Implementation has
been delayed, mainly due the unavailability of foreign exchange matching funds
to be provided by the Government, and the Bank has recently agreed to waive
the matching funds requirement to accelerate disbursements.
Credit No. 1029    Third Highway (Emergency Maintenance) Project:  US$25
million Credit of August 27, 1980, Effective Date:
November 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes reactivation of Ghana Highway Authority's (GHA)
road maintenance works through the provision of spare parts, equipment, and
related technical assistance to GHA and domestic contractors by a line of
credit through the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC). The project also
includes assistance to the domestic trucking fleet by the provision of spare
parts through BHC. Procurement of spare parts for GHA and domestic contractor
is proceeding satisfactorily and some equipment has been repaired preparatory
to resuming maintenance works; additional technical assistance has been re-
cruited to speed up repairs. BHC advisors are expected to be in place for the
second phase of their work in mid-1983. However, the project is proceeding
very slowly due primarily to delays in releasing Government's maintenance
budget, and low productivity and morale in GHA and BHC caused by low wages and
severe macroeconomic difficulties.
Credit No. 1170    Railway Project:  US$29 million of July 20, 1981,
Effective Date: December 22, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
Project implementation has just begun.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
GHANA
WATER AND SEWERAGE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project:   11 months (from January 1978
to November 1978)
(b)   Agency which prepared the project:   GWSC/IDA
(c)   Departure of Appraisal Mission:
Original Appraisal:              November 1978
Reappraisal:                     February 1980
(d)   Negotiations completed:               January 1983
(e)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:        June 1983
Section II:  Special Bank Implementation Action
Request for PPF funds of up to US$400,000 for appointment of 2 experts and
for preparation of bidding documents for rehabiliat;ion of Kpong/Tema/Accra
pipeline was approved in July 1981.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the draft Development
Credit and Project Agreements:
(a)   GWSC to complete revaluation of ATMA's fixed assets by June 30, 1984
(para. 71):
(b)   Government and GWSC to review with IDA recommendations of the
management consultants and implement agreed recommendations
(para. 66);
(c)   GWSC to assign three of its senior staff to work full time with
consultants to undertake management study (para. 66): and
(d)   Appointment of a Commercial Manager, Corporate Planning Manager and
ATMA Vehicle Workshop Superintendant and consultants to undertake
management study (Conditions of Credit Effectiveness, paras. 65 and
67).



GaANA WATER AND SEWERAGE CORPORATION
HEAD OFFICE STRUCTURE
MANAGING
DIRECTOR
SECRETARY & a                         AUDITOR E
LEGAL ADVISER 
DE PUTY
MANAGING
DIR ECTOR
CHIEF OF                CHIEF                                         ,CHIEF OF                        CHIEF OF     
FINANCE               ENGINEER                                                PLANNING               PERSONNEL 
-Main Accounts           r      I .,III                     - :  -2              -Economics           -Admin.
-Plant Accounting              IEF                    9 AREA/REGIONAL           -Resources            -Common Svcs.
-Budgets                       /BACT                     MANAGERS                Supplies             -Wages
Revenue              -Engin. svcs.                                               Sewerage            -Ind. rels.
Reports               Projects                                                                       -Personnel
-Records
GENERAL STORE       PUBLIC RELATIONS                     -Trainig
2 main         Drilling             MANAGER               OFFICER
Workshops       Operations
-Purchasing    SECURITY      -Publicity              WEIJA      OWABI 
-Stock         OFFICER       -Complaints             School    School   Ix
Tema       4 Regional
Stores        Stores



GHANA
GHANA WATER & SEWERAGE CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS FY 1980-1985
1980-          1981-/          19821'           1982-'            1983              1984               1985
Fiscal Year                                       Actual         Estimate         Forecast        Forecast          Forecast          Forecast          Forecast
.REVENUES
Sales,of Water, etc.                           27,747           38,326            85,562          45,500            88,500            94,300            98,300
Other Income                                    8.182            6,296             7,100           3,700             7,600             7,800             8,100
Proposed Tariff Increases                            -               -                -                -            65,563           108,200           158,800
Sub Total                                    35,929          44,622             92,662         49,200            161,663           210,300           265,200
Government Subsidy                             34,430           91,677            85,000          40,000            90,000            80,000            70,000
TOTAL REVENUES                            70,359          136,299            177,662         89,200           251,663           290,300            335,200
OPERATING EXPENSES
Personnel                                      36,746           84,880           110,344          64,712           148,504           165,516           182,068
Electricity                                     9,560           10,541            14,020           8,524            20,075            24,799            32,983
Chemicals                                       6,750            8,846            11,764           7,152            16,845            20,809            27,676
Repair & Maintenance (inc. Fuel)                4,775           12,086            14,861           8,635            19,681            21,935            25,652
Other                                           9,964           17,453            22,648          13,353            30,765            34,960            40,257
Total Operating Costs                        67,795          133,806           173,637         102,376          235,870            268,019           308,636
Income Before Depreciation                      2,564            2,493             4,025         (13,176)           15,793            22,281            26,564
Depreciation                                  5,978            6,116            10,093           5,590            12,268            14,051            16,003
Income Before Interest                         (3,414)          (3,623)           (6,068)        (18,766)            3,525             8,230            10,561
Interest                                      1,506            1,491             1,864           1,048            2,330              2,913             3,541
NET SURPLUS (DEFICIT)                      (4,920)          (5,114)           (7,932)       (19,814)             1,195             5,317             7,920
Average Asset Base (Historic Cost)              117,039          135,787           196,507         267,368           304,689          .351,230           390,202
Operating Costs Coverage (inc. Debt
Service, Working Capital and
Government Subsidy)                               1.3              1.0               1.0             0.9               1.0               1.1                1.0
Operating Costs Coverage (inc. Debt
Service, Working Cap. but excl.
Government Subsidy)                               0.8              0.4               0.5             0.5               0.6               0.8               0.8
1/ New Fiscal Year based on Calendar Year introduced January 1, 1983. Data for FY 1980 to 1982 relate to former fiscal year of July 1 to June 30.
2/ Six months only for July 1. 1982 to December 31, 1982 - See also Note 11.



GHANA
GHANA WATER & SEWERAGE CORPORATION
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF nWES STATEMENT FY 1980-1985
(o 000'S)
Fiscal Year                              19801/         19814'        1982-/         1982zl           1983             1984             1985
Actual       Estimated      Forecast       Forecast         Forecast          Forecast         Forecast
SOURCES
Income Before Interest                (3,414)        (3,623)        (6,068)       (18,766)           3,525            8,230           10,561
Depreciation                         5,978          6,116         10,093          5,590           12,268           14,051           16,003
2,564         2,493          4,025        (13,176)          15,793            22,281           26,564
Less:  Principal                         -              -              -              -              4,272            4,272            4,272
Interest (Net)                  1,506         1,491          1,864          1,048            2,330            2,913             3,641
Total Debt Service              1,506          1,491          1,864         1,048            6,602             7,185            7,913
Internal Cash Generation                 1,058          1,002          2,161        (14,224)           9,191           15,096           18,651
Borrowing (ATMA)                       9,898          3,682          3,500          1,900            3,800            9,000            3,600
Government Contributions
- Local             3/             66,834         52,497         34,840        26,002            87,759           65,854           95,249
- Foreign (IDA III)-'                 -              -              -              -              6,000           15,000            8,000
TOTAL SOURCES                 77,790         57,181         40,501         13,678          106,750           104,950          125,500
APPLICATION
Capital Investment
ATMA                                20,337         15,568         12,600          4,900           14,900           32,500            29,600
GWSC (excl. ATMA)                   56,559         33,059         62,000         26,000           65,000           70,000            75,000
Total Investment               76,896        48,627         74,600         30,900            79,900          102,500          104,600
Working Capital
Increase (Decrease)                (10,310)        (3,890)        (3,148)        (7,922)          19,450              (50)           9,900
Cash/Bank
Increase (Decrease)                 11,204         12,444        (30,951)        (9,300)           7,400            2,500            11,000
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             77,790         57,181        40,501          13678           106,750          104,950          125,500
1/ and 2/ - See Footnotes on Annex 5,1
3/ 75% Equity and 251 Grant - Part further passed on to ATMA re Pipeline Rehabilitation, etc.



GHANA
GHANA WATER & SEWERAGE CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS FY 1980-1985
(-   000's)
19801/        19811/         19821/          1982A/         1983           1984            1985
Fiscal Year                                   Actual        Estimate       Forecast       Forecast        Forecast       Forecast        Forecast
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Gross Assets in Operation                172,851         178,195        310,500        335,600        403,000         455,000        511,000
Less:  Accumulated Depreciation *         36,678          42,794         52,887         58,477          70,745         84,796         100,799
Net Fixed Assets in Operation            136,173         135,401        257,613        277,123         332,255        370,204        410,201
Construction in Progress                 192,906         234,873        177,168        182,968         195,468        245,968         294,568
Total Fixed Assets                     329,079  ,    320,274          434,781        460,091        527,723         616,172        704,769
Long-Term Assets (Govt.)                     5,414           5,414          5,414           5,414          5,414          5,414           5,414
Current Assets
Cashi                                     26,116         42,351          11,400          2,100           9,500         12,000          23,000
Accounts Receivable                        14,170         22,430         44,258         48,000          68,950         71,000          83,500
Stores                                    19,617          23,996         27,964         25,500         29,000          32,300         35,600
Other                                     22,963          38,652         29,500         22,900          26,000         28,600          31,800
Total  Current Assets                   82,866        127,429         113,122         98,500        133,450         143,900        173,900                           1
TOTAL ASSETS                         4174359        503X117        5534317         564l005        666t587         Z65M486        8844083                          c
EQUITY & LIABILITIES
Equity
Accumulated Fund                         136,908         139,894        139,894         139,894        144,394        155,644         161,644
Government Contributions                 133,633         183,145        217,985        243,987         333,246        402,850         500,099
Accumulated Surplus (Deficit)             11,895           6,780         (1,152)       (20,966)        (19,771)       (14,454)         (7,534)
Total Equity                           282,436        329,819         356,727        362,915        457,869         544,040        654,209
Long-Term Debt (ATIA)                        76,808         80,490         83,990         85,890          85,418         90,146          89,474
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                          40,816          64,376         70,800         73,200          78,800         86,.00          94,3900
Customer Accounts                         14,796          22,039         35,300         33,500          36,000         38,000          39,500
Short-Term Loans & Overdrafts              2,503           6,393          6,500          8,500           8,500          7,000           6,000
Total Current Liabilitiea               58,115         92,808         112,600        115,200        123,300         131.300        140,400
TOTAL EQUITY & LLABILITIES           417&52         503X117        5534317         5642005        666t='=         7654486        884A083
Debt/Equity Ratio                               21/79          20/80           19/81          19/81          16/84           14/86          14/86
Current Ratio (excl. inventories)                 1.1            1.1             0.8            0.6            0.8             0.9             1.0
1/ and 2/ - See Footnotes on Annex 5.1.



G H A N A
GWSC - ACCRA/TEMA METROPOLITAN AREA
INCOME STATEMENTS FY1980-1985
(e 000's)
Fiscal Year                               1980Y/        1981-/         1982-/        1982-/         1983          1984           1985
Actual      Estimated      Forecast      Forecast       Forecast      Forecast       Forecast
Operating Revenues
Water Supply                           15,369          22,806        33,516        19,300        40,550         46,750        51,200
Other Income                              759           1,245         1,079           630          1,990         2,400         2,750
Proposed Tariff Increases                 -                             -             -           38,690        53,575        84,700
Total Revenues                       16,128         24,051         34,595        19,930        81,230        102,725       138.650
Operating Expenses
Personnel                               8,825          19,609        25,492        14,340        31,865         38,238        42,062
Electricity                             4,532           7,282         9,696         5,650         12,895        17,151        22,810
Chemicals                               2,430           3,303         4,394         2,560          5,844         7,773         10,338
Repair & Maintenance (inc. fuel)        2,308           3,302         3,552         1,970          4,325         5,191         6,133
HQ. Administration                        360             360           600           400            900         1,080          1,300
Other                                   1,641          4,347          6,560         3,738          8,370        10,415         12,397
Total Operating Costs                20,096         38,203         50,294        28,658        64,199         79,848        95,040
Operating Income Before Depreciation  (3.968)           (14,152)      (15,699)        (8,728)       17,031        22,877         43,610
Depreciation                            1,411           1,323         4,521         2,525          5,582         6,027          6,875
Operating Income Before Interest          (5,379)       (15,475)      (20,220)      (11,253)        11,449        16,850         36,735
Interest                                1,590          1,548          1,935         1,090          2,419         3,024         3,780
Net Income (Deficit)                   .6.969)        (17,023)      (22,155)      (J,32)29
Government Subsidy Recelve&/                             15,922        15,178
Net Income (Deficit)                                   (1,101)       (6,977)
Average Net Assets (Historic Cost)    38,153             37,673        82,680        127,467       132,264       148,033        172,932
Rate of Return %                         Neg.            Neg.          Neg.          Neg.           8.6           11.3           21.2
Operating costs coverage
(inc. Debt Service/Working Cap.)    1.2               0.8           0.8            0.9           1.1        ,  1.0            1.2
January 1983
1/ New Fiscal Year based on Calendar Year introduced January 1, 1983. Data for FY 80, 81 and 82
relate to former Fiscal Year of July 1 to June 30.
2/  6 months only for July 1, 1982 to December 31, 1982.  See also note #1.
3/ ATMA received compensation from Government of 031.1 million due to delay in approving tariff
increase between July 1979 and February 1981. Received in FY 81 and 82 as indicated.



G H A N A
GWSC - ACC MA/TElI  METROPOLITAN AREA
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS_STATEMENT FYI980-1985
(g 000's)
Fiscal Year                            1980-/        1981-/         1982-1        1982-1         1983           1984           1985
Actual      Estimated       Forecast      Forecast       Forecast       Forecast      Forecast
SOURCES
Income Before Interest             (5,379)          4473/    (5,042)3'        (11,253)        11,449        16,850         36,735
Depreciation                      1,411         1,323        4,521            2,525         5,582          6.027        6_875
(3,968)       1,770          (521)         (8,728)        17,031        22,877         43,610
LESS: Principal                        -            -             -                -           4,272          4,272         4,272
Interest                      1,590        1.548         1.935           1.090          2.419          3,024         3,780
Total Debt Service            1,590        1,548         1,935            1,090         6,691          7.296         8.052
Internal Cash Generation           (5,558)          222       (2,456)          (9.818)        10,340        15,581         35,558
Borrowings
IDA II                            2,554         1,330          -                -              -             -              -
Other Donor (Pipeline)              -             -            -                -            3.000         9,000          3,600
CIDA                              7,343         1,801        2,350            1,200            600           -              -
AFDB                                   1          551        1,150              700            200           -
Local Banks                       4,000           -             -               -              -             -
Total Borrowing              13,898        3,682         3,500            1,900         3,800          9,000         3,600
Government Contributions
- Local                           6,067         5.281        4,500            3,600         5,000         12,500          7,500
- Foreign (IDA III)                 -             -            -                -            3,000         7,500          4,000
TOTAL SOURCES 4 !142,                      24185         Lhi                                                        224H
APPLICATIONS
Capital Investment
Second Stage Project             18,377       14,068        10,800            3,400            -  ,          -              -
Technical Asstce/Rehab'n            -             -            -                -          11,800         29,000         15,100
Sewerage Works                      -             -            200              300            500           500          4,500
Other Water Supplies              1,960         1,500        1,600            i,200          2.600         3,000         10,000
Total Investment             20,337       15,568        12,600           4.900         14,900         32,500        29,600
Working Capital
Increase (Decrease)              (6,182)       (8,447)      (8,456)          (6,156)        5,240         10,981         14,758
Cash
Increase (Decrease)                 252         2,064        1,400           (3,062)        2,000          1,100          6,300
TOTAL APPLICATIONS             Lh Q. 2g                  W.              (W,i1)        2    Oa   40  142 L26
Debt Service Coverage (times)    NIL              NIL          NIL              NIL            2.5          3.1            5.4
1/ and  /  See Footnotes in Annex 5.4
3/ After Government Subsidy
4/ 75S Equity and 251 Grant - ATHA Shore of IDA III relates to Rehabilitation of Pipeline, Spares, etc.



- 41 -
ANNEX V-6
G H A N A
GWSC - ACCRA/TEMA METROPOLITAN AREA
BALANCE SHEETS FY1980-1985
( 000's)
Fiscal Year                               198o-0       1981-1         198211        1982k'        1983          1984          1985
Actual     Estimated      Forecast      Forecast       Forecast     Forecast      Forecast
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Assets in Operation                    54,243        55,530        150,099       152,150       167,800       195,297      230,500
Less: Accumulated Depreciation       16,552        17,875         22,395        24,920        30,502        36,529       43,404
Net fixed Assets in Operation          37,691        37.655        127,704       127,230       137,298       158,768       187,096
Construction in Progress               82,086        96,367         14,398        17,247        13,397        18,400        12,797
Total Fixed Assets                  119,777       134,022        142,102       144,477       150,695       177,168       199,893
Current Assets
Cash                                       48         2,112          3,512           450         2,450         3,550         9,850
Accounts Receivable (net)               9,637        16,361         26,786        29,700        34,200        37,400       45,500
Stores                                  6,508         6,513          7,574         7,800         8,800        11,700        15,800
Other                                   8,752         8,861          2,894         3,100         3,900         5,200         6,900
Total Current Assets                 24,945        33,847         40,766        41,050        49,350        57,850        78,050
TOTAL ASSETS                          144.722       1,,869         182j868         185,527     200 -0        235,018       277,943
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
-Equity
Accuwulated Fund                       17,691        17,691         17,691        17,691        19,941        25,566        28,566
Government Grant                       14,075        21,774         26,274        29,874        35,624        49,999       58,499
Accumulated Surplus                    10,301         6,200          2,223       (10,120)       (1,090)       12,736        45,691
Total Equity                         42,667        45,665         46,188        37,445        54,475       88;301       132,756
Long-Term Debt
Ghana Government/Stepri                 20,000       20,000         20,000        20,000        19,000        18,000        17,000
IDA I                                    4,611        4,611          4,611         4,611         4,339        4,067         3,795
IDA II                                  13,799       15,129         15,129        15,129        15,129        15,129        15,129
CIDA                                    13,907       18,723         21,073        22,273        22,873        22,873       22,873
ADB                                     11,491        9,027         10,177        10,877        11,077        11,077        11,077
Local Banks                             13,000       13,000         13,000        13,000        10,000         7,000         4,000
Other                                      -            -              -             -           3,000        12,000        15,600
Total Long-Term Debt                  76,808       80,490         83,990        85,890        85,418        90,146       89,474
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                        17;316       26,736         32,682        36,815        33,425        31,644        31,736
Customer Advances                          345          390            420           550           700           900           950
Inter Branch Account                     6,986        9,561         14,561        19,800        21,000        19,000      '18,000
Short Term Loans and Overdrafts          1,200        5,027          5,027         5,027         5,027         5,027         5,027
Total Current Liabilities             25,847       41,714         52,690        62,192        60,152        56,571       55,713
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES           144,7L22          6 9&                    l             M            11241a        j_0,2Z23
Debt/Equity Ratio                        65/35         64/36         65/35         70/30         61/39         51/49         40/60
Current Ratio                            1.0           0.8           0.8           0.7           0.8           1.0           1.4
January 1983
1/ & 2/ See Footnote in Annex 5.4



- 42 -
ANNEX VI
GHANA
Water Supply and Sewerage Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
Project Cost Estimates in Thousand US Dollars
(March 1983 Prices)                   US$OOOs
Foreign      Local       Total
I. Technical Assistance
A.  Salary Costs                               1,800         -         1,800
B.  Support Costs                                500       1,500       2,000
C.  Office & Training Equipment                   40         -            40
D.  Vehicles                                     150         -           150
Sub-Total                                 2,490        1,500       3,990
II. Management Improvement Program
A.  Personnel in Ghana                           847          487      1,334
B.  Personnel in Home Offices                    269         -            269
C.  Local Consultant Support                     -           250         250
D.  Reimbursable Expenses                        264         -            264
E.  Office Equipment                              20          20          40
P.  Vehicles                                     100          93         193
Sub-Total                                 1,500          850       2,350
III. Consultant Services
A.  Design                                       526         101         627
B.  Supervision                                  279          92         371
C.  Reservoir Studies                            180          20         200
D.  Reservoir Studies                             52          20          72
Sub-Total                                 1,037          233       1,270
IV.  Pipeline Rehabilitation
A.  Cathodic Protection                          390         210         600
B.  Recoating                                  1,547
1.  42-inch                               1,547          604       2,151
2.  32-inch                                 430          170         600
C. Pipe Replacement
1.  42-inch                                 995          238       1,233
2.  32-inch                                 358           87         445
D.  Valvesand Fittings                           239         128         367
E.  Maintenance Equipment and Supplies           593         153         746
P.  Crossings                                    121          46         167
Sub-Total                                 4,673        1,636       6,309
V.  Miscellaneous
A.  Spare Parts and Tools                        450           45        495
m  B.  Public Fountains                             100           90         190
C.  Water Meters                                 100         -           100
D.  Pick-up Trucks and Cars                      300         -           300
E.  Mopeds                                        50          15          65
Sub-Total.                                1,000          150       1,150
TOTAL BASE COST                              10,700        4,369      15,069
CONTINGENCIES (Physical) 12%                   1,300         524       1,824
(price)                        1,000        4,507       5,507
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                           13,000        9,400     22,400
January 10, 1983



GHANA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
FISCAL YEAR         FY83                 FY84                  F Y85                 FY86
iTEM          \      CALENDAR    CY82             CY83                 CY84                  CY85             CY86
YEAR                 ___  ____             ____
3 .4      2          4    1     2    3    4    1           3    -           -
1. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
F IRST STAGE
SECOND STAGE
11. MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT                                      R
PROGRAM                                          -               m          -
III. CONSULTANT SERVICES
A. DESIGN/SUPERVISION            _                                                 -
B. PREPARATION OF PROJECTS                                    m         -    -
C. RESERVOIR STUDIES
IV. PIPELINE REHABILITATION                             _                   -    -
V, MISCELLANEOUS                                           - _ _           -    -    -
R - REVIEW PERIOD
T -TENDER PERIOD
World Bank-24696
tB



A



IBRD 15725
MAU#ITANIAAPRILtq
GHANA
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE                                                SENEGALy           'f MALI  f
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND                                           THE GAJMBIA
REHABILITATION  PROJECT                                             GBISESA AiU.
Existing pipelines                                                LEON              5HAN.%       .
Pipelines to be repaired
Pumping stations                                                                       TOGO 8ENIN
Reservoirs
Treatment works
Rivers
Roods
-.--  - Railways
----Metropolitan area limit
Note: Water distribvtion system details not shown
KILOMETERS 0        5       10     15      20       25
MILES 0             5            10          15
Koforidua                                                    Akuse
/                      ~~~~~~Doy~~
Dodowa
Niawarn
Pyo mprom
/g ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~/    \ <
* .-'  GHANA    4
>-CCRA
-'.* VaisWo- _n5bf t fe
dw Now to w,h h is 4 ett~ 
d. not k,4y, no Ihe pwe of the
WoHd B., nod 4t                            Acc a
eny t-ttteY .. e.ynodw.sn ten
.R Wce   of oo4 bhoJ *_ 
20          



