Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17416
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1976-GH)
February 27, 1998
Country Department 10
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT'S
Cedi/US$1.00
Year       1990        1991        1992        1993       1994        1995        1996        1997
SAR         210        217         221         223         225  _
Actual       325        390         420         700        980        1,250       1,500       2,200
WEIGHT AND MEASURES5
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND) ACRONiYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
AFU             Agro-Forestry Unit
CIDA            Canadian International Development Agency
DANIDA          Danish International Development Agency
DFID            Department for -International Development (UK)
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FAO             Food and Agricultural Organisation
FAO/CP          FAQ/World Bank Cooperative Program
FD              Forestry Department
FDPB            Forestry Department Planning Branch
FIMP            Forest Inventory and Management Project
FORIG            Forestry Research Institute of Ghana
FPIB            Forest Products Inspection Bureau
FRMP            Forestry Resource Management Project
FSDP            Forest Sector Development Project
GFS             Ghana Forestry Service
GOG             Government of Ghana
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             International Development Association
IRNR            Institute of Renewable Natural Resources
IUCN            The World Conservation Union
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MEST            Ministry of Environment, Science and Technology
MLF             Ministry of Lands and Forestry
MLNR            Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MOA             Ministry of Agriculture
MOFA            Ministry of Food and Agriculture
NRMP            Natural Resources Management Project
ODA             Overseas Development Administration (UK)
PB              Planning Branch
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PPMED           Planning, Policy, Monitoring and Evaluation Department
RFD             Rural Forestry Division
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
SDR             Special Drawing Rights
SFS             Sunyani Forestry School
TEDB            Timber Export Development Board
WB              World Bank
WD              Wildlife Department
WITC            Wood Industries Training Centre
Vice  President          Jean Louis Sarbib
Country Director .       Peter Harrold.
Techriical Manager    Jean Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader         Robert Epworth



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1976-GH)
Table of Contents
Preface .............................................. iii
Evaluation Summary .............................................. v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ...............................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................                       3
Imnplementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................... 8
Project Sustainability .............................................. 10
Bank Performance .......................................................                              11
Borrower Performance .............................................. 11
Assessment of Outcome ..............................................                                  12
Future Operations .............................................. 12
Lessons Learned ..............................................                                       13
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
1.  Summary of Assessments ............................................15
2.  Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits ........................................... 16
3. Project Timetable ............................................ 17
4.  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .................................... 17
5.  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................................         18
6.  Key Indicators for Project Operation ...........................................             19
7.  Studies Included in Project ...........................................                      20
8A. Project Costs ........................................... 22
8B. Project Financing ........................................... 22
9.  Economic Costs and Benefits ...........................................                      23
10. Status of legal Covenants ........................................... 26
11. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ........................................... 27
12. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........................................... 28
13. Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................                         28
APPENDICES
1. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
2.  Borrower's Implementation Completion Report: Executive Summary
3.  Comments from Cofinanciers and Parallel Financiers
Danida
DFID
4.  Maps: IBRD Nos.15116R3, 18393R1, 18469R2, 18472R, 18484R2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
pierformnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization..






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1976-GH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Forestry Resource Management
Project (FRMP) for which Credit 1976-GH, in the amount of SDR 30.6 million (US$39.6 million
equivalent), was approved on December 22, 1988, and made effective on November 30, 1989.
The IDA credit was closed on June 30, 1997, two years beyond the original closing date of June
30, 1995. Final disbursement took place on November 6, 1997, at which time the undisbursed balance of
SDR 21,693 (equivalent to about US$30,000) was canceled. Cofinancing for the project of US$8.3
rnillion equivalent was provided by the Danish International Development Agency (Danida), and parallel
financing of US$7.1 million equivalent by the UK Overseas Development Administration (ODA, now
Department for International Development, DFID).
The ICR was prepared by a Food Agricultural Organisation/World Bank Cooperative Program
(FAO/CP) mission which visited Ghana from October 29 to November 14, 1997,1 and finalized by R.
F,pworth, TTL for the project. The final draft was reviewed by G. Schreiber (AFTA3) and J. Chevallier
(AFTS3). The Borrower, primarily through the MLF Project Coordination Unit (PCU), contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, providing data and infornation, as well as
commenting on the mission's aide memoire. The Borrower's own implementation completion report was
transmitted to the Bank in January 1998; the Executive Summary is attached as Appendix 2 to this ICR,
and the full report is available in the project files of the Africa Region Information Center.
1 The mission consisted of A. Simon, Mission Leadcr and Forestcr (TCIL). and J. T racey-White. Economist/Institutions
Specialist (Consultant).
- iii -






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1976-GH)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
(i)    The Forestry Resource Management Project (FRMP) was the first Bank project directly in
support of the Ghana's forestry sector. The project was born out of the 1986 multi-donor Forestry Sector
Review carried out under the auspices of the Global Tropical Action Plan, which outlined an action plan
fDr the conservation and use of Ghana's forests. The Bank agreed to support these initiatives and
approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The resulting project was seen as the first phase of a long-
term development program for the sector and was part of the various IDA-financed projects/programs to
support the Government's Economic Recovery Program (ERP) which was introduced in April 1983.
Project Objectives
(ii)   The project was intended to sharpen the focus of natural resource management in Ghana through
the achievement of three main objectives: managing industrial forestry production based on a sustainable
yield policy; promoting conservation and fuelwood tree planting to counteract fuelwood shortages and
environmental degradation; and sector institutional strengthening and reform. These objectives were
clear, realistic and relevant to the sector's needs at that time and are still relevant today.
(iii)  In support of these objectives, the project was designed with six components: (i) sector policy
reforms: including changes in forest revenue policy, allocation of logging concessions, improved staff
incentives and rationalizing timber trading; (ii) forest management: forest inventories and improved
planning and forest management of 1.7 million hectares of forest in and outside reserves to protect
vatersheds, endangered species and important ecosystems; (iii) rural forestry: jointly implemented
through the Ministry of Lands and Forestry (MLF) and the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA), to
upgrade/establish nurseries to provide and distribute around 7 million seedlings, the equivalent to 3,000
hectares of fuelwood plantations; (iv) institutional strengthening: program for enhancing organizational,
monitoring and management skills within the MLF, including establishing a Planning, Policy, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department (PPMED) and supporting the activities of the Forestry and Wildlife
Departments, the Timber Export Development Board (TEDB) and the Forest Products Inspection Bureau
(FPIB); (v) forestry education and training: involving the Institute of Renewable Natural Resources
(IRNR) and the Sunyani Forestry School (SFS) to improve the relevance and quality of training in the
natural resource management sector; and (vi) adaptive research: strengtlhening the capacity of the
Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG) to determine sector priorities and implement an
appropriate adaptive research program.
-v -



Implementation Experience and Results
(iv)   After a slow start in 1990 caused by indifferent project management by the government and other
factors outside the control of the lead agency, implementation peiformance improved greatly from 1993
onwards, and by Credit closing (including two years' extension) in 1997, the project was successful in
achieving the substantial part of its technical objectives. Where policy objectives were not fully met,
ongoing programs in the post-project period are expected to prodluce satisfactory results in the coming
months.
(v)   Improved management of industrial forestry was to be achieved through policy reform and the
introduction of improved resource planning and better field management techniques. On the policy side,
progress was made in a number of areas, including: bringing all logging concessions (both on and off
reserve) under one administrative system; requiring concessionaires to develop and operate working
plans approved by the Forestry Department (FD); establishing annual timber harvest limits (annual
allowable cut - AAC) based on sustained yield estimates; and the introduction of random field audits in
concessions. Timber royalties were increased up to levels proposed in the SAR, although these have
since been eroded by inflation and local currency depreciation.  Attempts to improve concession
arrangements and increase royalties were generally well formulated, but implementation tended to be
weak. A review of the log export ban was undertaken, concluding that the ban was appropriate under the
present circumstances in Ghana.
(vi)   Although significant reforms concerning concession allocation were still outstanding at Credit
closing, these have since been embodied in legislation (the Timber Resources Management Bill) that was
passed within the next six months, in December 1997. This legislaition contains positive elements that go
beyond those envisaged in the project, including social responsibility agreements with local communities
and provisions to link plantation development with harvesting of natural timber. Action to increase
royalties to levels that reflect the economic price of timber is planned for the first quarter of 1998, to be
followed in mid-1998 by further new consolidated legislation (Forest Bill) which will remove anomalies
in existing legislation and establish the Forest Service. The new royalty system is expected to have
provision for automatic rate adjustments, based on international timber price trends.
(vii)  The impact of the strengthening of the Forestry Department Planning Branch (FDPB) was
particularly significant, as it was then able to generate more reliable quantitative information on which to
base sector policy reforms and plan for sustainable resource use. Major improvements were made in the
capacity to manage production forestry at field level, including preparation of forest inventories,
harvesting schedules, technical manuals and working plans. SignifiFcant achievements during the project
include: (i) completing inventories of all reserves in the high forest: zone; (ii) undertaking of the first off-
reserve forest inventory; (iii) introduction of a 40-year felling cycle coupled with tighter logging controls;
(iv) development of a national AAC (and anticipated introduction of district felling limits); (v)
preparation of a guide for sustainable use of non-timber forest products (NTFP); (vi) intensified controls
on illegal logging; (vii) preparation of a Forest Protection Strategy to ensure biodiversity conservation;
and (viii) development of a collaborative forest management framework for on and off reserve situations
to ensure all future forest management is socially sustainable. The successful completion of these project
activities put Ghana at the forefront of international action to develop strategies for the effective
combination of conservation with the sustainable economic use of the forest.
(viii) Inventory and mapping of nearly 10,000 ha of existing Government-planted teak plantations was
also undertaken, although there were many problems with the remote sensing. However, none of the
- vi -



project proposed plantation rehabilitation took place, as government policy changed away from public
expenditure on this activity, in favor of encouraging the private sector investment.
(ix)   Promoting conservation and tree planting on farms was also slow to take off, but picked up
mnomentum in the second half of the project and eventually exceeded SAR targets. Although cooperation
between the Rural Forestry Department (RFD) of MLF and the Agro-Forestry Unit (AFU) of MOFA was
never developed to the planned level, the combined achievements of the two units was quite satisfactory,
with seedling production increasingly being taken over by the private sector; an estimated 16,000 farmers
adopting agro-forestry techniques; and the equivalent of over 20,000 ha being covered in an intensive tree
planting campaign.
(x)   Institutional strengthening was perhaps the project objective where the least real progress was
mrade, apart from FDPB which received strong support under the associated Forest Inventory and
MAanagement Project parallel-financed by ODA/DFID.  Although significant staff training was
undertaken, technical assistance engaged, and facilities and mobility improved, only limited progress was
mnade in strengthening operational capacity of the two main sector institutions, the Forestry Department
(FD) and the Wildlife Department (WD). This suggests that more fundamental institutional change was
required than that proposed by the project. However, significant progress is now being made under two
associated initiatives leading to the preparation of the proposed Natural Resources Management Project
(NRMP), the follow-on project to FRMP. A new DFID-financed initiative (Forest Sector Development
Project - FSDP) was launched in 1996 to reorganize FD into a leaner and semi-autonomous Ghana Forest
Service (GFS). Planning for this reorganization is well underway, and GFS is expected to come into
being with the passing of the Forest Bill in mid-1998. At the same time, planning is well advanced for
restructuring of WD -- being undertaken by the World Conservation Union (IUCN) with funding
provided through a Japanese grant associated with the preparation of NRMP, in an initiative that started
in September 1996.
(xi)   The key factor that adversely effected project implementation in the early days was the lack of
commitment to sector reform by the government prior to 1993, which was reflected in the lack of stability
in project implementation arrangements. The major underlying factor at that time was the change from a
Presidential Decree system of government to a parliamentary system in December 1992, and the
circumstances leading up to the election, combined at that same time with strong lobbying from loggers
and millers intent on maintaining the status quo. This delayed the adoption of crucial sector policy
reforms.  Following the project mid-term review in 1992, implementation performance improved
significantly from 1993 onwards, with increased commitment to change being exhibited by the GOG and
MLF, and improved project coordination and management by a newly constituted project coordination
unit within MLF. The Borrower's performance is, thus, rated as unsatisfactory up until the mid-term
review, but satisfactory thereafter.
(xii)  The project met most of its physical targets, in terms of civil works, vehicles and equipment.
(Construction targets for staff housing and offices for FD, IRNR, SFS, WD and MOFA have all been
achieved, as well as the provision of new teaching/laboratory accommodation for IRNR and FORIG.
Procurement targets for vehicles and office, camp and field equipment have also been met. For these two
categories, actual expenditure exceeded appraisal estimates, mainly due to the mid-term review upward
adjustments. Expenditure on training was slightly lower than planned, as not all line agency proposals.
Against MTR amended targets, actual expenditure on civil works was up but only 8 percent, and vehicles
amd equipment by 22 percent. Expenditure on training was lower than planned, as not all line agency
proposals were ultimately approved by MLF. Technical assistance was less than half the appraisal
estimate, again partly because of the mid-term review adjustments, and also due to a certain
- vii -



unwillingness by some implementing agencies, who considered that adequate local expertise was
available. Final expenditure in this category was almost in line with the MTR amended figure. Increased
expenditure on all the above three categories was at the expense of operating costs, which were down
40% on the appraisal estimate and 20% on the MTR revised figure. At Credit closing, US$69.0 million
was disbursed, a higher total amount than was estimated at appraisal because of the foreign exchange
gain between the SDR and the US$ (increasing IDA disbursements from US$39.4 million to US$43.7
million) and the 18-months extension to ODA/DFID support which increased the parallel financing
contribution to £4.8 million, adding US$0.8 million.
Summary of Findings and Future Operations Key Lessons Learned
(xiii) The overall assessment of Project outcome is that despite initial implementation delays, the
project has satisfactorily achieved the bulk of its major objectives.  Sectoral policy reform and
institutional strengthening were noted as marginally satisfactory because while gains during the project
period were below target, ongoing initiatives in both areas are very positive, and the original objectives
are expected to be achieved in the near future. Achievement of the production forestry objective is noted
as highly satisfactory, as the ODA/DFID initiative has created institutional capacity and systems to
improve forest management and control production on a sustainable yield basis, and it is now possible to
obtain reliable quantitative information on which to base sectoral policy reform. The tree planting and
woodlot development objective was also successfully met, and excellent progress was made in privatizing
seedling production.  Project outcome in this area is therefore rated as satisfactory.  Although
inventorying and planning was done, rehabilitation of government-owned plantations (mainly teak) was
not achieved -- as a result of Government's decision to stop public expenditure in this area in favor of
private investment.
(xiv)  In addition to regular supervision from the field after task management was moved to the
Resident Mission in Accra in mid-1994, the Bank mounted eleven full supervision missions during the
project period. The most critical was the mid-term review in 1992 which resulted in significant
modifications to implementation arrangements and reallocation of funds among disbursement categories.
The Bank's supervision performance is considered satisfactory for the second half of the project period.
More could have been done in the first half to assist project staff to understand Bank procurement
guidelines, and this could have improved disbursements in the early years. But given the underlying
problems plaguing the project at that stage, this is unlikely to have had any long term significant benefits.
(xv)  The initiatives undertaken in FRMP are believed to be sustainable because of continued strong
commitment from goverrnent to all the original ideals of FRMP, in particular the principle of working in
collaboration with local communities who own the nations natural resources to manage these in a
sustainable manner; and, as part of an ongoing wider civil service reform program, to strengthen sector
institutions to ensure they can live up to the government's obligatioens in this regard.
(xvi) The measure of Government commitment is reflected in its role in promoting the proposed
Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP), requiring the coordination of the activities of all line
ministries and agencies (MLF, MOFA, MEST/EPA, MME) involved in natural resources management,
and all donors (IDA, DFID, Danida, the Netherlands, the EU, AkfDB, WFP and GEF) interested in
funding natural resources activities, under one umbrella project.
(xvii) NRMP will, inter alia, be a follow-on project to both FRMP and the Environmental Resources
Management Project (ERMP) -- also financed by IDA, DFID, and IDanida -- which is due to close at the
end of 1998. The five main lessons learnt from FRMP include the need to:
- viii -



*  view NRM projects as longer term development programs, made up of a series of
rolling projects, or phases spread over a 10-15 year period;
*  ensure an effective sector policy environment and efficiently operating sectors
institutions are in place before major infrastructure development is started, or wide-
scale resource management is initiated;
*  realize that institutional strengthening may mean fundamental change far beyond
training programs and provision of improved facilities and equipment -- requiring
good planning and adequate implementation time;
*  involve all stakeholders -- including loggers and millers, but especially the local
resources owning communities -- in the planning of resource use, and ensure local
communities gain an equitable share of the revenue generated. Public awareness
campaigns and development of resource owners' associations to counter other
powerful lobby groups of resource users is important in this regard; and
*  develop within ministries/agencies responsible for sector policy adequate technical
support, especially in the areas of resource economics and planning, and effective
monitoring and evaluation systems.
These lessons have been incorporated into the design of NRMP.
- ix -






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOREST RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 1976-GH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
Introduction
1.    The forests and woodlands of Ghana have traditionally played a vital role in the economic
development of the country. The exploitation of this resource has generated substantial foreign exchange
earnings and employment through the logging and timber processing industry, and has also met the
country's needs for fuelwood, construction timber and non-timber forest products. However, from the
mid-1970s to the early 1980s forestry and forest industries were in a state of decline due to the
overvalued Cedi, poor state of equipment and unavailability of spares, deteriorating infrastructure, and
government controls on exports. A dramatically deteriorating macro-economic situation in the early
1980s caused the government to introduce the Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in April 1983, and
this was supported, inter alia, by a series of IDA-financed projects/programs at macro and sector levels.
These measures resulted in a gradual revitalization of the forestry industry, and the annual out-turn of
logs and export receipts rose steadily from 0.6 million m3 and US$15.3 million in 1982 to 0.9 million m3
and US$30 million by 1985.
2.    However, by 1986 there was growing concern that accelerated exploitation of the forest would
result in irreversible forest depletion and environmental degradation if weaknesses in the sector
institutions and sector policy environment preventing proper forest management and harvesting controls
were not addressed. It was feared that this situation, when combined with the ongoing pressure on forest
areas by illegal logging operations and increasing numbers of cocoa and food crop farmers caused by
population pressure, could result in a situation where the commercial extinction of a significant
proportion of the nation's timber resource was possible, with loss of export revenues and employment
and potentially adverse effects on the environment.
3.    A detailed review of Ghana's forestry sector was undertaken in 1986 by the Government of
Ghana (GOG), assisted by a multi-donor mission consisting of the World Bank (WB), the British
Overseas Development Administration (ODA),' the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
and the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO). The Bank acted as the lead donor agency, and the
review was carried out under the auspices of FAO's Tropical Action Plan. The review identified the
principal sectoral constraints and recommended measures for overcoming them in the form of a program
strategy for the forestry sector. On the basis of the review findings, GOG requested the FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) to identify and prepare a specific project for external financing. A
Since 1997: the Department for International Development (DFID).



- 2-
joint FAO/CP and ODA project identification/preparation mission visited Ghana in February 1987. The
Bank approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to support detailed project preparation and urgent
pre-implementation activities. The project was appraised in March 1988. Credit negotiations were
undertaken in October 1988, followed by Board presentation in December 1988 and Credit Effectiveness
in November 1989. Danida cofinanced the project (rural forestry, education and training); and parallel
finance was provided by ODA (forest management -- excluding civil works and motorcycles). The IDA
Credit was closed on June 30, 1997, after two twelve-months extensions. The DANIDA component was
extended until December 31, 1997, to facilitate completion of works and activities. The project was the
first IDA project directly in support of Ghana's forestry sector.
Project Objectives and Components
4.     The Forest Resources Management Project (FRMP) had three main objectives which were aimed
at sharpening the focus of policy and programs in the sector through: (i) managing industrial forestry
production and export earnings in accordance with a sustained yield policy; (ii) promoting conservation
and tree planting on farms to counteract fuelwood shortages and ecological deterioration; and (iii)
strengthening the structural base of the sector and its institutions to enable them to carry out the necessary
reforms, increase revenue generation, improve protection and management of the forest and wildlife
resources, and lay the foundations for developing a methodology to quantify environmental and
ecological benefits.
5.    To achieve these objectives, the FRMP was designed with six components:
•  Policy Reforms: relating to the future efficiency, productivity, viability and sustainability of
the forestry sector. This was to be implemented through the Ministry of Lands and Forestry
(MLF)2 and linked to the quick disbursement of two tranches of the Credit to be used for the
import of equipment, vehicles, materials and spare parts for the forestry sector. The first
tranche was released at Credit effectiveness. The second was to be released 18 months later
and to depend on meeting a set of additional conditions: (a) an increase in royalty fees to a
level of 12 percent of the average fob value of logs; (b) increased concession rents; (c) lifting
of the export ban on logs and replacement with export tariffs; and (d) further improvements
in professional and technical staff recruitment and incentives. Component base cost: US$15
million.
*  Forest Management: to achieve improved management of productive natural forest resources
to meet domestic and export needs for timber, fuelwood and other forest products on a
sustained yield basis, as well as improved forest and wildlife reserve management to protect
watersheds, endangered species and important ecosysterns. The activities were to include: (i)
strengthening of the Forestry Department's Planning Branch (FDPB) capacity for production
of working plans for 1.7 million hectares of forest reserves; (ii) completion of forest
inventories for 600,000 hectares of the High Forest reserves; (iii) extending mapping and
socio-economic survey of the High Forest outside the reserves; (iv) survey and rehabilitation
of 30,000 hectares of existing industrial forest plantations; and (v) strengthening regional-
level forest management capacities. This component was to be implemented through the
FDPB and cofinanced by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and IDA.
Component base cost: US$12.7 million.
2   Fonnerly the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources.



-3 -
*  Rural Forestry Development Program: to be jointly implemented through the Forestry
Department (FD) of MLF and the Crop Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). The envisaged activities were: (i) socio-economic surveys to determine attitudes to
tree planting; (ii) upgrading of existing nurseries and establishment of new nurseries to
provide and distribute around 7 million seedlings, sufficient for about 3,000 hectares of
plantations; (iii) provision of extension and motivation to popularize tree planting; (iv)
monitoring and evaluation of impact; (v) establishment of 40 demonstration areas in 14
districts; (vi) rehabilitation of savannah forest reserves; (vii) studies to identify measures to
reduce encroachment into forest reserves and to review land and tree tenure laws and
customs; and (viii) support to the Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG) on agro-
forestry adaptive research. Component base cost: US$9.1 million.
*  Strengthening of Forestry Sector Institutions: by enhancing organizational, monitoring and
management skills within the MLF, including establishing a Planning, Policy, Monitoring
and Evaluation Department (PPMED) and financing activities (technical assistance, staff
training and civil works, vehicles and equipment) in FD, the Wildlife Department (WD), the
Timber Export Development Board (TEDB) and the Forest Products Inspection Bureau
(FPIB). Component base cost: US$11.7 million.
*  Forestry Education and Training to improve the relevance (e.g., more emphasis on agro-
forestry, wood technology and wildlife management) and quality of training in the natural
resource management sector, as well as to increase the number of trained technical and
professional staff in the public and private sectors. This was to be implemented through the
provision of support (civil works, equipment and technical assistance) to the Institute of
Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR) in Kumasi and the Sunyani Forestry School (SFS).
Component base cost: US$8.6 million.
*  Forestry Research: implemented by the Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG) to
strengthen its capacity (through civil works, equipment and technical assistance) to determine
sector priorities and to implement an adaptive research program for natural forest
management, agro/rural forestry and the utilization of forest products, including the use of
secondary species. Component base cost: US$7.5 million.
*  Total project costs were estimated at US$64.6 million over a seven-year period. Financing
was through an IDA Credit of US$39.4 million, a GOG contribution equivalent to US$9.8
million, and grant funding from DANIDA (Denmark) of US$8.3 million and ODA (UK) of
£3.7 million (US$7.1 million). Project financing was to cover the following inputs: (i) two
quick-disbursing policy related tranches (US$15.0 million); (ii) investment costs in civil
works, equipment, technical assistance and training (US$36.3 million); and (iii) recurrent
costs for maintenance, incremental salaries and allowances (US$13.3 million).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives'
6.    Managing industrial forestry production was implemented partly through program related
sector policy reforms, and also through project-supported institutional strengthening of FD, TEDB and
3   See Table 5 for detailed key indicators.



-4 -
FPIB, through establishing dialogue with the logging and processing industries, promoting the use of new
technology (e.g., kiln drying) and providing training to operatives in the industry, primarily through short
courses for both technical and managerial staff at the Wood Industry Training Centre.
7.    More directly, the objective was met through assistance to the FD Planning Branch.4 Overall, the
project has created the basic capacity to improve the management, control and production of industrial
wood on a more sustainable basis. This included: (a) the strengthening of the Planning Branch to prepare
inventories, harvesting schedules and, recently integrated managemrent plans, including: (i) the production
of technical manuals of procedure on plantation development, stock survey, harvesting schedules, logging
management planning; and (ii) the mapping and preparation of 20 Forest Management Unit Plans and of
working plans in the forest reserves; (b) the forest inventory of the all forest reserves in the High Forest
Zone (HFZ), including the delineation and inventory of new and existing permanent and temporary
sample plots in forest reserves and the preparation of a species listing and a computer data base; (c)
outside the forest reserves: (i) the development of the concept of dedicated forests; (ii) the preparation of
a guide for the sustainable use of Non-Timber Forest Products (NTFPs); (iii) completion of the first off-
reserve inventory; (iv) development of the new AAC (and anticipated introduction of the new district
felling quotas); and (v) the preparation of harvesting and new felling procedures to reduce illegal felling
and increase revenue capture; (d) the mapping and inventory of 9,700 hectares of existing plantations and
the establishment of 88 permanent sample plots, including detailed soil surveys and site studies in some
priority areas; (e) the strengthening of FD at the regional levels in the HFZ through in-service training of
staff and various field technical teams and the intensification of control against illegal logging (using
regular production of forest reserve control reports by the District Forest Offices); (f) development of a
Forest Protection Strategy to ensure maintenance of environmental quality and biodiversity of the
permanent forest estate; and (g) development of a collaborative fbrest management framework for on-
and off-reserve forests, which, when fully operational, will ensure all forest management, including
production forestry, is socially sustainable.
8.    Compared to the SAR, the main delays experienced were in concession data computerization and
the botanical/zoological inventory to be undertaken in conjunction with WD. On plantation development,
although planning and mapping activities were undertaken, the SAR goal of rehabilitating existing
plantations was not achieved -- partly because GOG policy shifted towards promoting private sector
forest plantations. The existing FD plantations were inventoried, technical manuals prepared, and
management regimes devised for each stand. An auction system for allocation of stands for thinning was
developed, but not implemented. A plantation strategy was formulated which provided for private sector
involvement in large-scale plantation development to rehabilitate more than 300,000 ha of reserve land
where the forest is severely degraded -- and a major plantation investor was considering involvement in
Ghana, but later withdrew.
9.     The impact of strengthening the Planning Branch has been particularly significant in that it
provided quantitative and reliable information on which to base policy reforms in the sector; the
availability of inventory data allowed an assessment to be made and better control of the Mean Annual
Cut, facilitating more accurate estimates of potential royalties, and work on"interim" measures allowed
This activity was financed by ODA from 1985 through the following lprojects: (i) the Forest Inventory Project
(FIP: 1985-1990); (ii) the Forest Inventory and Management Project (FIMP: 1990-1996); and (iii) the Forest
Sector Development Project (1996-1998). FRMP increased the capacity of intervention of the Planning
Branch between 1990 and 1997 mainly through providing equipment and civil works. This component was
dominated by a large amount of technical assistance.



- 5 -
effective mechanisms to be put in place prior to the passing of new legislation. Royalty collections now
effectively cover 100 percent of legally felled trees, although actual recovery in any one year has not
exceeded 70 percent and is still only around 30 percent of the outstanding amount, when backlog
payments from previous years are included. GOG has, however, recently taken decisive action to recover
all arrears through threat of cancellation of property marks and legal action to recover outstanding
amounts, and by linking full payment to renewal of logging concessions and charging interest on all
overdue payments. During the project period, disbursement of off-reserve timber royalties to the local
traditional authorities has improved, as has the efficiency with which these payments are made --
although substantial improvement is still needed, particularly in this latter area. Reforming the process of
allocating concessions was only achieved in late 1997, although new legislation had been proposed since
1993. Improvement of staff incentives was not addressed directly by the project, mainly because this is a
broader civil service issue and therefore not under the control of MLF. Civil service salaries were
increased by 60 percent in 1992 and field allowances nine-fold, and staff of implementing agencies did
directly benefit from this. The broader issue of staff incentives is, however, being addressed formally
now under the DFID-financed initiative to create a semi-autonomous Forest Service and through
institutional reorganization and strengthening studies for WD being undertaken by the World
Conservation Union (IUCN).
10.   Promoting conservation and tree planting was implemented through the rural forestry
component, which succeeded in promoting conservation and tree planting at farm level, mainly oriented
to the various savannah areas of the country. It was successful in: (i) implementing an intensive
extension program to promote rural and agro-forestry techniques, including institutional strengthening,
training and adaptive research programs; (ii) encouraging on-farm tree planting and creating community
awareness of agro-forestry; and (iii) initiating private seedling production and selling of trees. The
project approach changed progressively from central departmental nurseries, staff training, project-owned
demonstrations and imported technology transfer to individual and community nurseries, the use of
extension and farmer training, on-farm demonstration and local technology transfer. These activities
were implemented through the creation of two separate implementation entities: (i) the Rural Forestry
Division (RFD) within FD, which was mainly oriented to woodlot creation at village and farm levels, and
(ii) the Agro-Forestry Unit (AFU) of the MOA, mainly for the promotion of on-farm agro-forestry,
principally through the national unified extension system.
11.   Rural forestry was the slowest of all project activities to take off. Starting with upgrading of all
existing departmental nurseries in the six targeted regions, seedling production increased progressively to
around 3.5 million seedlings in 1996, of which 37 percent came from individual/community nurseries.
Fruit trees were sold at the end of the project at subsided prices as foreseen at appraisal, but wood tree
seedlings were always given free-of-charge to interested farmers. RFD produced and distributed around
14 million seedlings and more than 5,600 hectares of woodlots were planted during the project period
(see Table 5). RFD initiated activities in the interior savannah area to promote participatory woodland
management, including socio-economic and land use surveys, participatory workshops, a woodfuel
survey and, from 1995, planting about 160 hectares with communities (using a taungya approach) to
rehabilitate degraded forest reserve areas.
12.   AFU successfully and progressively privatized seedling production and conducted agro-forestry
trials and demonstration (see Table 5).  From  103 demonstration centers created in 1991, AFU
progressively shifted its emphasis from departmental centers/plots to farmer-based trial plots. In 1996,
the Unit had 131 on-farm trials and 47 demonstration sites which served as training locations. Trials
were based on the replication nationally of five major promising agro-forestry models, promoting alley
cropping, woodlots, inter-cropping fruit trees with food crops, boundary planting, windbreaks and fodder



- 6-
banks. From 1990 to 1996, more than 16,000 farmers adopted agro-forestry techniques, covering over
17,000 hectares. From 1992, following a new policy to reduce seedling transport costs, the seedling
production activities were shifted from 65 centralized and 24 "flying" nurseries, established in 1991, to
1,020 individual and group nurseries -- representing, in 1996, 98 percent of the functional nurseries and
accounting for 92 percent of the annual seedling production (estimated at more than 2 million).
13.   Globally, the Rural Forestry and Agro-forestry Component considerably exceeded the SAR
targets for: (i) seedling production and distribution (around 23 million, against 7 million in the SAR); (ii)
the creation of individual/community nurseries (around 1,130, against 52 in the SAR); (iii) the
establishment of woodlots (around 5,600 ha, against 3,000 ha); and (iv) the creation of
demonstrations/trials (187, against 40 in the SAR).
14.   The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit, created wilhin RFD in 1991, was never fully
effective. Land/tree tenure and socio-economic studies were undertaken to identify interest in and
constraints to the development of individual and community plantations. Intensive training for AFU and
RFD staff at professional and sub-professional levels was orgainized on agro-forestry techniques,
participatory rural appraisal and bushfire prevention. Rural and agro-forestry promotion was effected
through courses for local leaders, farmers, group leaders and front-line extension workers. Study tours,
short courses and fellowships were organized for both staff and farmers inside and outside the country.
15.   Strengthening the structural base of the sector was implemented by FDPB through the forest
management component and the strengthening of FD and WD to imjprove protection and management of
the forest and wildlife resources. Although the establishment of the ]'PMED within MLF (with assistance
from FAO) was a major step forward, the weakest project initiative was possibly the attempted
strengthening of the various forestry sector institutions. Most of the basic infrastructure for FD and WD
has been completed, training programs have been implemented and technical assistance has been
obtained. But only limited progress was made in strengthening the operational capacity of these two
institutions, suggesting that more fundamental change was required than that proposed by the project.
Technical assistance provided to WD through IUCN has been effective in laying the foundation for
change -- completing management plans for 13 protected sites and preparing proposals for institutional
change, future research needs, an assessment of training needs, and guidelines for participatory
conservation planning in the reserve buffer zones.' However, significant progress is now being made
under two associated initiatives, both of which fed into the preparation of the proposed Natural Resources
Management Project (NRMP). A new DFID initiative (FSDP) was launched in 1996 to reorganize FD
into a leaner semi-autonomous Forest Service (FS). Planning is well underway, and the FS is expected to
come into being following the passing of the Forestry Bill in mid-1998. At the same time, planning is
well advanced for the restructuring of WID -- being undertaken by IUCN with funding provided by a
Japanese grant associated with the preparation of NRMP, an initiative that started in September 1996.
16.   Forestry education/training and research were conceived as; supporting the other components.
Although the SAR recognized the need to coordinate the training and research needs of the sector, this
only happened in an ad-hoc manner. In general, objectives have been met in terms of upgrading technical
skills and in completing civil works programs for providing new and improved accommodations. One
positive aspect was, however, the initiation of the Technical Officer Refresher Course at SFS using
modules prepared by FDPB, FORIG and IRNR.
To date, there has been little action, other than for fire prevention, to implement the plans, this being envisaged
under the follow-up NRMP.



- 7 -
17.   Adaptive Research. The project has upgraded FORIG to improve the institution's capacity to
provide guidance for management of natural forest resources, rural and agro-forestry activities and
utilization of forest products. Main activities were: (i) forest research review and planning completed in
1991, followed by a review of past research activities at 12 field stations and a strategic planning
workshop in 1994, and a first stakeholder workshop in 1997 to present and discuss the annual program;
(ii) implementation of agro-forestry research programs in collaboration with RFD and AFU (on-farm
trials, introducing trees for water erosion control, soil fertility improvement, integrated home garden
farming systems, mixed tree plantations and fallow improvement); (iii) building of new research
facilities, including laboratories and administration offices and providing transport and supply equipment.
From 17 at the time of project start-up, the number of staff has increased to 50 research staff plus 20
technical senior officers.
18.   Education and Training. The project supported the development of training facilities at SFS and
I]RNR, through civil works, equipment provision, technical assistance and scholarships. Broadly, the
project's achievements are in line with SAR proposals, although some facilities are not fully equipped
and only partial use was made of technical assistance to upgrade courses and to supplement teaching
staff. Infrastructure was also provided at the Mole Wildlife School (MWSI but not equipment -- which
may adversely affect future training programs. Finally, although not envisaged in the SAR, the TEDB
developed a fully-equipped Wood Industries Training Centre (WITC) at Kumasi.
19.   Targets for increasing full-time teaching staff to 20 at IRNR were achieved (there are now 24
staff), as substantially was the increased enrollment target to 135 of the B.Sc. Program, although not for
the Diploma program. For SFS, the Certificate course enrollment target was exceeded (201 against 180).
tJse of undergraduate and post-graduate educational fellowships, both in Ghana and abroad, by all the
executing agencies was virtually 100 percent, and in all but one case candidates returned to their previous
piosts and were making use of their training. Short courses were provided to most agencies, including: (i)
planning courses to MLF staff; (ii) refresher courses at SFS for 228 forest guards and 40 technical grade
staff; (iii) 442 WD staff received the course for technical assistants at the MWS; and (iv) WITC provided
each year, since 1996, 15 short-duration skill upgrading courses to groups of private sector operatives in
the timber processing industry.
20.   Disbursement. The final project cost was US$69.0 million. This exceeds the appraisal estimate
(including price and cost contingencies) because of the foreign exchange gain between the SDR and the
US$. IDA and Danida disbursements (in the original currencies) were broadly as estimated in the SAR.
Hlowever, because of the time extension to the ODA/DFID parallel-financed Forest Inventory and
Management Project (FIMP), the contribution from this source was increased to £ 4.8 million, effectively
adding US$0.8 million. Mainly due to the substantial exchange rate changes during the project period,
Government counterpart funding, at US$9.0 million, fell slightly short of SAR expectations of US$9.8
ooillion.
21.   Project Returns. At appraisal, the project's quantifiable benefits over a 15-year period were
estimated to produce an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 21.4% and a Net Present Value of US$20.8
rnillion, at a 10% discount rate. The economic benefits were to arise from two sources: (i) primary forest
products, through reductions in wastage during logging operations (starting at 1.5% savings in year 2 and
increasing to 7.4% in year 6) resulting from project activities related to forest management and
institutional strengthening, including research, education and training, and estimated to give an ERR of
24.8%; and (ii) secondary forest products, with an estimated ERR of 12.9%, derived from the benefits in
the value of woodlots expected to be planted under the rural forestry component.



-8-
22.   It is inherently difficult to accurately estimate project generated efficiency gains in forest logging
and milling operations, and the project lacked an M&E system thait could track these improvements. But
it is clear that the measures taken substantially contributed to improving royalty collection off-reserve and
to a reduction in illegal logging and speculative felling. The effect of project initiatives on encouraging
loggers to reduce waste is more difficult to judge. Notwithstanding the lack of objectively measured
benefits, an overall economic revaluation for the primary forest products has been undertaken -- based on
a reduced annual average cut at a more sustainable level of I million m3 and assuming a 10% greater
economic value of logs and a similar species distribution as in the SAR, but with a more conservative
build-up in waste reduction savings (i.e., starting at 1.5% savings at year 2 and reaching 7.7% only at
year 10). This results in a lower ERR of 14.5% compared to the SAR's estimate, largely because of the
impact of the lower annual average cut. For the secondary forest products component, it was possible to
make a revised assessment, although the component as implemented was more wide-ranging and, in
addition to fuelwood, covered the planting of fruit trees and anmial crops. Including these additional
revenues (but excluding any social benefits), the returns from this component are substantially higher
than the SAR estimate of 12.9%, and would produce a revised ERR in the order of 28%. However, the
lower planted area of fuelwood on its own would not produce a positive ERR. The ERR for the overall
project is lower, at 17.8%, but this is still regarded as satisfactory.
23.   The SAR also assessed the financial cost recovery of the project resulting from policy reforms
related to increases in royalty collection rates -- from 17% before the project to around 50% at project
completion. This assumption has proved to be too conservative, and by 1997 it would appear that
royalties were being charged (although not necessarily collected in that year) on almost 100 percent of the
legally felled timber. Royalty billing also rose, particularly in the post-MTR period -- rising from Cedi
1.3 billion in 1993 to Cedi 8.7 billion in 1996. However, royalty rates have not been increased
progressively throughout the project period and, thus, the potential revenues of the project's institutional
strengthening component have not yet been fully realized. In cuiTent price terms, the SAR's revenue
projections have been met, but due to a higher real rate of inflation, compared to the SAR, benefits in
constant price terms are only 25 percent of the original estimate. This underlines the importance of
linking increases in royalty rates to international timber prices and the need for regular revision as these
vary over time. The basis for the economic and financial re-calculations is given in Table 9.
24.   Although an environmental impact assessment was nct required at the time of project
preparation, the project has had a significant positive impact in the high forest, especially in terms of
reduced illegal speculative logging, and has been instrumental in (i) the formulation of a new Forest
Protection Strategy, leading to the development of a GEF-financed biodiversity conservation component
as part of the proposed follow-up Natural Resources Management Project; (ii) inventorying forest
resources in the high forest zone, allowing a more effective monitoring of the annual allowable cut; and
(iii) promoting the protection of biodiversity and endemic species tlhrough the development of integrated
forest management planning, involving local communities and extending to sustainable yield
management of non-timber forest resources.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Implementation Record
25.   The project made a slow start in implementing planned activities, due to initial weak management
and coordination. As a result, expenditure lagged for the first two years, despite the release of the first
policy-related tranche of SDR 5.9 million at Credit effectiveness. This improved significantly from about



-9-
1993, and as a result it was agreed that the Credit closing date would be extended twice: from June 30,
1995, to June 30, 1996, and then to June 30, 1997. The Danida component was eventually extended a
third time, to December 31, 1997. Reallocations among disbursement categories were made on three
occasions: in 1992, 1993 and 1995.
26.   Following release of the first tranche in November 1989, the second tranche of the policy-based
project component of SDR 5.73 million could have been released as early as mid 1991. However, this
did not occur until mid 1995 because of the very slow progress in implementing the agreed policy
reforms that were to trigger the tranche release. A number of factors contributed to this in the early years
of the project, including dispersion of authority for policy direction and management of forestry resources
over a number of agencies, some of which lacked commitment to the substantive reform required, and
inadequate awareness by the public in general and the political leadership in particular of the negative
effect of unsustainable logging on the conservation of the nation's natural resource base and rural
people's livelihood systems. Perhaps the major cause was the preoccupation of the political leadership at
that time with Ghana's return to a parliamentary form of government in late 1992, coupled with very
strong opposition from the logging and sawmilling industry who traditionally profited from the status
quo, at the expense primarily of the resource owners, but also of the government. By 1994, project
management had improved considerably, and the govermment was becoming more focused on what was
needed to ensure sustainable natural resource management. As a result, all conditions for the release of
the second tranche (enhanced forest royalties; rationalization of concession administration under FD;
improved concession management guidelines; review of the log export ban; and improved forestry
iinstitution personnel policies) were met by August 1995, and the second tranche was subsequently
released.
:27.   The government has subsequently decided (a) to rely less on concession rent bidding to
determine concession allocations in favor of administratively fixing concession rent and (b) to relate
access to harvesting rights over natural timber to social responsibility agreements between potential
concessionaires and local communities and to commitment to invest in privately owned plantations as
part of a perfornance-bonded agreement with the government. This approach is embodied in new
legislation, the Timber Resources Management Bill, now awaiting Presidential assent.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.   Factors not generally subject to GOG control. The major aspect was probably the associated
effects of change from a presidential decree system to a parliamentary system in December 1992
(combined with strong lobbying from loggers/millers) which delayed the adoption of various policy
reforms. On the financial side, the severe depreciation of the Cedi against all major currencies during the
project period increased substantially the availability of funds for local expenditure, but affected
negatively the potential Cedi revenue in US$ equivalents expected from increased royalty rates as
compared to the SAR estimate.
29.   Factors generally subject to GOG control. These included: (i) changes in government policies
during the project period in favor of privatizing seedling production, decentralization of the institutions
and establishment of a unified extension system, all of which were positive changes, but required changes
in approach to the rural and agro-forestry activities compared to the SAR implementation arrangements;
(ii) the lack of stability in overall project implementation arrangements and coordination of line



- 10-
implementing agencies until 1993,6 and (iv) the slow disbursement at the beginning of the project which
was linked with some lack of understanding of project staff of Bank procurement and disbursement
guidelines, but also with delays in provision of counterpart funds for civil works.
30.   Factors generally subject to implementing agency control. The main initial problem under the
implementing agencies' control was the delay in establishing effective project coordination by MLF and
the associated delays in the staff of implementing agencies in conming to grips with Bank procurement
procedures for civil works and equipment. Related to the coordination problem was the issue of M&E
and the failure to set up an effectively functioning system, thus exacerbating coordination problems.
D. Project Sustainability
31.    Sustainability of project initiatives depends on three interrelated issues -- development of a sound
sector policy framework; appropriate institutional reorganization and management reorientation; and,
empowerment of local communities who own the natural resources. On the policy front, significant gains
were made during the project period, as already documented. But perhaps more important is the
groundwork done during the project period which is now bearing fruit in the immediate post-project
period -- the Timber Resources Management Act which was passed by Parliament in December 1997,
and the consolidated Forest Bill which is expected to be tabled in Parliament in mid-1998. These two
pieces of legislation embody all outstanding policy reforms considered necessary to underpin sustainable
forest and woodland management, including, inter alia, concession administration and management,
resource pricing and institutional reform. The fact that the legislation is being tabled after FRMP is
closed is, in itself, some positive measure of sustainability in pollicy reform. The major institutional
reforms, the restructuring and reorienting of FD and WD, are still underway, both assisted by ongoing
externally funded programs. DFID continues its support to reorganize FD into a semi-autonomous Forest
Service, a new institution outside the civil service which is expected eventually to be self-financing. WD
is benefiting from support from IUCN, funded by a Japanese grant. This program should be completed
by early 1998 and lay the groundwork for substantial changes in the way in which WD operates,
especially in relation to local communities. Empowerment of resource owners was underpinned by the
project in two ways -- firstly through the development of collaborative management initiatives which now
drive the process of forest concession allocation and management, and partly through the proposed
substantial increase in forest royalties and plans to ensure that a significant share of this revenue passes
through to traditional authorities and district assemblies.
32.   In the savannah zone, the agro-forestry activities appear sustainable, with tree seedling
production now successfully privatized and agro-forestry promotion being progressively integrated into
the unified extension system, for which the current regional ancl district agro-forestry officers will
became subject matter specialists. In relation with the new Forest Service, the functions of RFD and the
regional and district rural forestry officers will be absorbed into the proposed Savannah Resource
Management Centre to be established under NRMP.
33.   These initiatives by themselves will ensure a strong element Df project sustainability, and this will
be reinforced by follow-up project activity already well underway, in the form of the proposed Natural
Resources Management Project (NRMP) which picks up and expands initiatives started by both FRMP
and the Environmental Resources Management Project (ERMP). NRMP is expected to be a 10-15 year
6  The lead implementing agency changed three times: MLNR from 1989 to January 1991; Forestry Commission
from February 1991 to August 1991; and MLNR/MLF from September 1991 to the end of the project.



- 11 -
program initiative, to be financed by IDA through an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) facility and by
several other donors, which will ensure the sustainability of the long-term natural resource management
initiatives commenced under this project.
E. Bank Performance
34.    The Bank's performance in identification and project preparation (where it played an important
role because in the 1980s the sector ministries/agencies were not familiar with the preparation of forestry
investment projects) was generally satisfactory. However, in hindsight, the ability of the existing
institutional capacity to implement the project within the proposed time schedule was over-estimated, as
was the effort needed to improve this capacity. Likewise, the ability of the logging/sawmilling lobby to
resist sector policy reform was underestimated, as was the need for strong public awareness programs
where environmental and natural resource management issues are involved.
35.   In addition to regular supervision from the field after task management was moved to the
Resident Mission in Accra in mid-1994, eleven formal implementation assistance missions (mostly in
conjunction with Danida) were undertaken, the most critical being the Mid-Term Review in February
1992, at which significant modifications were made to implementation arrangements: (i) creation of an
effective project coordination unit within MLF; (ii) a decision that the Bank's Resident Mission in Ghana
(RMG) would become much more active in overseeing local procurement; and (iii) modifications to the
Credit Agreement including streamlining of Special Account management by amalgamating the original
eight accounts into two; reducing the overall amount of technical assistance; and increasing both IDA's
amd Danida's disbursement percentages for civil works and operating costs.  Bank supervision
performance was satisfactory and enhanced implementation performance, particularly the Mid-Term
Review -- although more could have been done early in the project to help solve procurement problems.
Comments were also made about field supervision mission visits being too short and insufficiently
technical, although this related only to the rural forestry component and referred to the period
immediately after the departure of long-term FAO technical assistance. Short-term technical assistance
was subsequently provided.
F. Borrower Performance
36.   After a slow project start, implementation performance did not improve for more than three
years. The Borrower's performance in managing the project improved substantially after the Mid-Term
Review -- mainly because of the establishment of a strong and well-staffed project unit within MLF, the
appointment of a Technical Director with authority to coordinate the activities of the implementing line
agencies, and the initiation of regular project coordination meetings. Delays in the adoption of necessary
policy reforms and the provision of counterpart funds affected project implementation to the end.
3A 7.   Specific shortcomings in borrower performance included: (i) the lack of flexibility and
clecentralization in the project management procedures (field requests took between three and six months;
in some cases, more than six steps were needed to obtain final approval) created some delays in logistic
support and program implementation; (ii) insufficient and irregular counterpart funding; (iii) although
computer hardware and software were procured, inadequate efforts were made to establish a trained and
effective cadre of staff to sustain the M&E system; (iv) initial difficulties conforming with IDA's
procurement procedures, and this contributed to the slow disbursement; greater initiative from the
implementing agencies to ensure that relevant staff familiarized themselves with Bank procedures would
have helped prevent this. The Borrower's performance, while unsatisfactory in the early years of the
project, was generally satisfactory from the mid-term review to the end of the project.



- 12-
G. Assessment of Outcome
38.   Overall Outcome. The project has satisfactorily achieved (in some cases exceeded) most of its
major physical objectives, i.e., forest inventory and management platning inside forest reserves, seedling
production and on-farm tree planting and civil works. In addition, the project has strengthened the
various implementing agencies in providing additional staff, technical assistance and equipment and in
implementing various planning and policy reform studies. A substantial number of scholarships abroad
for Masters and PhD and in-country fellowships at IRNR and SFS for B.Sc., Diploma and certificate
levels were also financed by the project. Overall, the economic returns of the project are at least as high
as anticipated at appraisal.
39.   Within the life of the project, performance in achieving the objective of managing production
forestry through sectoral policy and institutional reforms was slow, with the government being able to
achieve critical policy reform required to trigger the release of the second policy-related tranche only
after a delay of about four years, and with similar delays in initiating institutional reform. The policy
reform environment at the end of the project is, however, quite positive, with new legislation just enacted
and more expected within the next six months. Apart from the establishment of the PPMED within MLF,
the reorganization of the main institutions in the sector (FD and WD) has only started seriously in the last
year of the project, although major initiatives underway in both these institutions are expected to lead
now to sustained capacity building under the proposed NRMP. Given the strong expectation that positive
development impact is likely to be achieved on both the policy and institutional fronts, this aspect of the
project is rated as marginally satisfactory.
40.   The production forestry objective implemented through the F]DPB has been highly satisfactory, as
it has created the basic capacity to improve management, control and production from productive forest
resources on a sustainable yield basis. It was particularly significant in providing reliable quantitative
information on which to base sectoral policy reforms. Another important initiative was the development
by FDPB of a system for integrated collaborative management for both on- and off-reserve situations.
On the issue of rehabilitation of existing plantations, based on the original SAR projections, the outcome
was technically unsatisfactory, but this is largely explained by the welcome policy shift by government to
promote private sector involvement and cease public expenditure on plantation development.
41.   Promotion of tree planting and woodlot development under the rurallagro-forestry component
resulted in a planting program equivalent to more than 20,000 ha and is therefore rated as satisfactory.
The project approach changed progressively from departmental activities and imported technology
transfer to locally-based technologies, individual seedling production and on-farm trials/demonstrations.
However, these activities were implemented through two separate agencies in MLF and MOA, and this
caused some coordination difficulties and unnecessary overlap. The undertaking of agro-forestry
activities by the new unified agricultural extension system also meant: that a third body became involved.
In the long term, an institutional arrangement based on a multi-disciplinary approach is likely to be the
most sustainable solution, as this will allow the integration of agro-forestry with government's
decentralization program.
H. Future Operations
42.   The continued operation of initiatives started under FRMP is assured under a new program
currently being developed by GOG with support from IDA and a number of other donors. The proposed
Natural Resources Management Program (NRMP) is a multi-disciplinary initiative involving all
ministries/agencies involved in natural resources management in Ghana (MLF, MOFA, MLGRD,



- 13 -
MEST/EPA and MME), and financed, in addition to IDA, by a range of external donors, including DFID,
Danida, the Netherlands, the EU, AfDB, WFP and GEF. The program is conceived as a 10-15 year
program, designed  as a three-phase  Adaptable Program  Loan.   Appraisal took  place  in
November/December 1997, and the Credit is expected to become effective in the first half of FY99.
Among other initiatives, NRMP effectively continues and expands on promising initiatives commenced
umder both FRMP and the Environmental Resources Management Project (ERMP). Five components
would be covered: High Forest Resource Management; Biodiversity Conservation; Savannah Resource
Management; Wildlife Resource Management; and, Environmental Management Coordination.
43.    Within these components, specific ongoing FRMP activities to be supported by NRMP include:
*  Forestry Management: (i) complete the integrated collaborative management planning
process within the reserves and extend the system to off-reserve areas, including
operationalizing a manual of procedures; (ii) finalize proposals (including sources of funding
and institutional arrangements) for establishing a development fund for the promotion of
private timber plantations, including privatized exotic and indigenous timber tree seedling
production and distribution; (iii) review the training requirements for the private sector
(industry, planters and managers) and see how the existing training institutions can meet this
need; (iv) investigate the marketing issues related to new timber plantation species and how
the milling industry can be encouraged to adopt new practices, including small-diameter log
processing, finger-jointing, etc.; (v) implement, under the new legislation, the revised
methods for the allocation of logging concessions and for tracking logs; and (vi) provide
needed technical assistance.
* Promoting conservation and tree planting: (i) support the development of a comprehensive
collaborative savannah woodland management system; (ii) continue to promote the private
production of fuelwood, poles and fruit tree seedlings; (iii) continue to promote the
integration of agro-forestry into the unified extension system and ensure that agro-rural
forestry officers trained by the project become subject matter specialists under the program;
(iv) investigate marketing problems and the use of appropriate processing facilities associated
with expanding fruit tree production, particularly cashew nuts; (v) revisit the curricula
requirements for agro-forestry at SFS and IRNR and train trainers for successfully
implementing revised courses, based on the application of a farming systems approach; and
(vi) provide needed technical assistance.
*  Strengthening the structural base of the sector: support civil works, equipment, (and
redundancy/re-training payments) and interim operational costs to: (i) establish an
autonomous GFS; (ii) review and promote WD institutional strengthening, including
involving NGOs and the private sector; (iii) complete investigations for merging TEDB and
FPIB into a single industry-oriented organization; (iv) thoroughly review the training and
research needs of the entire sector and develop an appropriate and sustainable long-term
coordinated program; and (v) provide needed technical assistance.
I. Lessons Learned
44.    The main lessons learned from FRMP cover five themes:
(i) To properly address natural resource management issues and identify and test sustainable
solutions, a long-term perspective must be taken. This means that a single conventional five-year



- 14-
investment project is unlikely to produce a satisfactory result and a sustainable development
impact. Instead, what is needed is a longer-tenn commitment to natural resource management,
supported through a series of related rolling projects or phases making up a 10-15 year
development program.
(ii) The underlying basis for any NRM program is an effective policy environment and efficiently
operating sector institutions. These issues are under the control of governments, and any
program must ensure these are right before embarking on any significant infrastructure
development or attempting to implement of resource management plans at any scale other than
pilots.
(iii) Institutional strengthening often means substantive fundamental change to how institutions
are organized and managed and therefore requires good planning and sufficient implementation
time. Provision of training and improved equipment and facilities may not be sufficient to
achieve the goal.
(iv) Sustainable NRM can only be achieved when resource-owning local communities are fully
involved in the development of resource management plans and receive an equitable share of
proceeds when the resource is harvested. This involvement must be encouraged and ensured
through the development of collaborative management programs, supported by public awareness
programs that enlighten communities as to the potential benefit to them of sustainable
management systems; through involvement of all stakeholders in project coordination
committees; and by encouraging resource owners to form associations to counteract the lobbying
power of well organized and better funded resource users' associations.
(v) It is imperative that NRM ministries/agencies responsible for setting policy and implementing
development programs have effective support in resource economics and planning. Allied to this
is the need for an effective monitoring and evaluation system capable of assessing the field
impact of project interventions, without which it is not possible to objectively measure the overall
development impact of the program.
These five lessons have been incorporated into the design of the proposed NRMP.
45.   In addition, a number of more project-specific lessons were learned:
(i) Where multiple line agencies are implementing different components of a program, an
effective implementation coordination unit must be in place from the start.
(ii) Investment in training of agency staff in Bank procurement methods at the start of the project
would help overcome any initial implementation delays.
(iii) A participatory approach to identifying improved agro-forestry techniques and models
adapted to the traditional farming systems and to the priority needs of farmers and the market is
required to facilitate adoption of agro-forestry techniques.
(iv) The creation of demonstration plots owned and managed by the project is not sustainable. In
the future, only on-farm demonstrations/trials, maintained by farmers and adapted to traditional
farming systems and social context, should be promoted.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives                Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                     [r i i]              ii               ±
Sector policies                                  [ ]          7
Financial objectives                E7           E             71           F7
Institutional development            7           F 7                          2
Physical objectives                 E7                         K             K]
Poverty reduction                   E]           [C            [             L
Gender issues                                    ED            K]            K
Other social objectives             ED            K              ]           K
Environmental objectives             K]             ]          K] 
Public sector management                                                    ED K  K  ]
Private sector development             ]          K            K] 
Other (specify)                        ]          K            K]            K
B. Project sustainabilitv                     Likely       Unlikelv    Uncertain
* if linked to future Natural Resources Management Project
Highly
C. Bank performance                         satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Identification                   H              L           `
Preparation assistance           E             K            K
Appraisal                           ]          K            K
Supervision                       K            K            K
Highly
1D. Borrower performance                    satisfactory   Satisfactorv   Deficient
Preparation                      H1           E9            E
Implementation                    K] I] 
Covenant compliance               K            K            K
Operation (if applicable)         K           j             K
Highly
E. Assessment of outcome                 satisfactorv   Satisfactorv   Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactorv
B~~~~~~~~/



- 16 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Number    [Purpose                                | Year of approval  Status
Preceding operations
1. 1009-GH            Volta Region Agricultural Development    1980             Completed
2.1498-GH              Second Oil Palm                         1984             Completed
3. 1778-GH             Structural Adjustment Institutional Support   1987       Completed
4.1801-GH              Agricultural Services Rehabilitation    1987             Completed
5. 1854-GH             Cocoa Rehabilitation                    1988             Completed
Following operations
1. 2180-GH             Agricultural Diversification            1991             Active
2. 2247-GH             National Agricultural Research          1991             Active
3. 2319-GH             National Feeder Roads                   1992             Active
4.2346-GH              National Agricultural Extension         1992             Active
5. 2426-GH             Environmental Resources Management      1993             Active
6. 2441-GH             National Livestock Services             1993             Active
7. 2555-GH             Agricultural Sector Investment          1994             Active
8. 2713-GH             Fisheries Subsector Capacity Building   1995             Active
F9.N020-GH| Village Infrastructure                               1997            Active



- 17 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle           ]     Date planned            Date actualllatest estimate
Forestry Sector Review                               May 1985                      April 1986
Identification /Preparation                          July 1985                   February 1987
Preappraisal                                  _                                 November 1987
Appraisal                                          October 1987              February/March 1988
Negotiations                                      Quarter IV, 1988            October 11-14, 1988
Letter of development policy (if applicable)      _
Board presentation                                Quarter I, 1989               December 1988
Signing                                                                        February 16, 1989
Effectiveness                                     Quarter IV, 1989            November 30, 1989
First tranche release                             December 1989                  October 1990
Mid-term review                                   December 1991                  February 1992
Second tranche release                               May 1991                   August 25, 1995
Project completion                              December 31, 1994
Loan closing 1'                                  December 31, 1995               June 30, 1997
The Development Credit Agreement amended the Project Closing Date to June 30, 1995. The closing date was thereafter extended twice: from
June 30, 1995, until June 30, 1996; then until June 30, 1997. The closing date for disbursement ofthe DANIDA grant was extendedthree times upto
31 December 1997.
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY89z'   FY90    FY91    FY92  I FY93            FY94      FY95       FY96
Appraisal estimate             9.70    17.20    30.10    34.20    36.60       38.30      39.40            l
Actual 3'                      1.57    10.20    14.14    21.28    25.77       30.26      42.77     43.72
Actual as % of estimate       16.2%    59.3%    47.0%    62.2%    70.4%       79.0%    108.6%    111.0%
Date of final disbursement                                November 6, 1997
IDA disbursements only, including quick disbursing component.
a Based on WB Fiscal Years: 1 July - 30 June.
1' Disbursement includes foreign exchange gain between SDR and US$.



raooid A4saio-oiSt papunj oVqaciNn n-pun pap!Aoid V.L o0 uotwppt puj
(VAOQNON wt) £4sa4oj-oait put (Aw ie) Aosazoj zaup sOpnlFu1
-slltd luoW3S-UUUJo -zqw-nu poujap -O aA"a u"'1-p!N,,
as   la  qaule.4 Suisinqs!p )p!nb is5   paltlr as ssOAlUAIjOaueol oj suoil!puooaid SU!Pnflxg,
,1apuw uuosiad gE                                                    siuow uoud                                                                                            iu d ZLSJA-JVO  .............. ....... St juojuqooo -a  
spuou uosnad 9E                                                    stpuou uosnd SL                                  ..u....a3 oj9v/vJW - ooutis a-owqont -
tItst  dAM  q.                              J . 091 .p                                        adsu.t                                                                     tJ...O...U..UAt...t...p...uo. .......................... ........q tq a    -
eq 56                                                                   - --    aqat  08m*   --- --- -----     ------s'it uarpejsowop ksaiojaotSe
....... £81                                    -                 .                   -.B- muw--D>- 'CUD---- mi uaiatpsouo  M aoj.........--------- ---------------seu
-            .             .........                      .             ........... 't ........q 6 L9'54 00.'.                                                                              sU.t ;............................. iu. Id/. ipC. .O  uolu s. qt. . jjq
Iii' S86                           IL' £68 E                         I              OU Cu tJoi.tU £                                                                                                                                    ...........                       ----------------- suA paos owqinsp -
....................................  ............................... ............................ ,........................ ....................... .........................................................................................................
ou1 O0'I                             'Cu LO01                                   sauaSJfnulouUtS                                                        (jepnuxuuoa/jtnprA;put) souosznu !OAOT-OStflIA MO aqsflqttsa- .
1              ................................ ..................................................  .....................................................................................................................
0 u 59                                    Cu 6t'SUZ faalnU ou £S                                                                                                          sanuasu ienuowstd.p )p)4s!p qs!jqes)s pue opesSdn - 
-Cu 01                                 Cu 9                                     suoiaq -Cu S                                                                                                                                              o ipAO3 sait- .
........................... ..... .................... t-------........ ..........................................  ....................................................................................................................
yQWlYiyp3yl                           grrcq                                                                                                                                                                  1:sueuzdopAvaa £z;sazloj iuani Et
unaSosd $C11 !d wulnp j                                                       paofijpodsull                                                                 uw8oid iusutaioua-Uut put uoipa osd anj djoiAp -
........                                            ............... ............                                     .............  ....................... .........................................................................................................
RIdS W!M^ POIPIIcW)SO LuGsAS                                                        paij!:adsun                                                                                                                        suolletndo SuxiSaj zIuoIwOl -
-.q 6L9'9  ii~~~~  Wj_j6:suaw Snu                                                                                                   inp~unZ  /so p-H Zu:uqsuaqg Q
......................................6..................................u.........."I.........L...............................................................................................s..u.....p..---------............s...p.........
.......6 ii...   . ..                    ....  izi......... .........................                                                      ....................................................................................... SU   S u ¢ v Zla o   s X l
oSutijo Aoppd - auop 1ON                                                        pol31zadwuu                                                                                                                               uowIeqeqsAz u ts!lieutd -
.       *------ poi9dwD                                                            adw                                                              ujd u-u Sojaput a PT  awwouoa 'u a                                                            w's             fCs  -
. ...~~    ~       ~~.......   ....... ................................................... ...........................          .........................................................................................................T
t         sdlold Cou 88    Lajd  ou 001                                                                                                                    suaid jduds wuoztuuod Mua                                                                 qsIqtlsu         -   i
l~~~~~~~~~ ............................................... ................................................... .....................................................................................................................
.   sJtea 0OL'6                                                   tOtP2qt 000'0E mpoAufs Af!suolu MCo pue unddtuo  -
...................................................... ........................ ..................................................  .........................................................................................................
i                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sunpn:ujjZIup1sg,jj uopnjjpqnqoagf pun aAnS (a0
.......................  ..................................................  ....................................................................................................................
poiuouziduq unSod d -                       CoU uolpeS                                                                                                                                  suozpsps vdsuuStuow Aatledpited duopAup -
............  .....................................................................  ................................................................                                                                                  ............................................
p uai lpopun SAOflg                                                            oudwts                                                                   uu up                              a-!p n         aiw!woaua-aPos jtpoApun -
.......................................................... ..................... ............................. ..................... ..........................................................................................................
ualenltAo Axetuuuqazj                                                           anat dwwD                                                                                                               Swddew put £ZC)UOAWu owlduzoo - 
snouoldulou  iO                                                      staid -ou 001                                                                                                    gtold aid-ut lwouud MOt qsjlt)S  -
..........                                      ..................... ........................................   .....................................................................................................................
stploid t0otd o t@ °oNpo                                                      sailfd au6                                                                                            stad  Jojduzu  uoutuupud Sewns xosnmw-s - 
6wdo                                              saitbo@1  000'009                                                                       cus soo-AISH s !dC. omA!-t a$uA p-  Uaddct -
...............................   ..................................................  ............................................................................................................:........
Is-uq,jas    uva.g 8kase&eosou upsanu tCmn:uaulesaung (a
l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......  ...................    ..........................   ....................................................................................................................
noidwoolep       -lD90X:UpaualdW°D oral D                                                                                                                              asted -lpCu    gs              jduwoapuetu w  swa!ds oitdoid -
.....................      ......................................  ...................................................  ....................................................................................................................
un sdto1N                                                       swte; ou &otE sU E   nualU                                                                                           C              4 u du wjadM3Us aSuidRpnb -
............                            .          ...............   ..........................   ....................................................................................................................
i    soldLot°1 asnaX                                                              lol o 6SHsold                                           aldwe luueJ3 Su!ddu  t  jluoA opsduwo3 -
l~~~~~~~~~............   ................................................... ....................................................................................................................
in;jalduEo                 sONepuwlu d                                                                                                                                                   oq1 0ia000  aaupac -
isa"a,vay ao               apsueldoouZSui2sueld                 ;uwNu ouaAu  aasao  -p
...............................   ..................................................  ....................................................................................................................
usippd uorps ii s ols d-oz                                              sipuow gj                   3 nodzmSDf                                                           i  pune iuBdllJ fnnduto sPueweLT stoadws jeewjd (p
ipawidwaa                                                             sipaWna g°!;t!   loda                                                                        unjdunq lon u A~un 4suepup A0004 peppyen sdot (o-
I ............. ......................................... ...................... ............................. ..................... .........................................................................................................
t p                     uapldnuruo                  d                                soa 81  ou  Obf                                                                                                  sWol   d old Su -E                         d susa dlOSS!lbOlO  -
s~st poypaw  o pnotuoduq                           ipuw 81it oidwo                                                               enja U6 98                      slold oldums wuapusnadvu;  onuJtu-an (n
.....................                         ......................  ...........                                       ..........  ...................................                                                                                                               ....
............................................................  ....................... ............................ .................................................. ...........................................................................................
:uay w 41-uelsao**z Io
IPV                                           ~~~~~pflUe1qJP                            |pods21  jEsMn.'jlVS ul s.E@;tajpi uovuaunald.q Sex i
euo ouuawaIduqI pfoaIoj ssm uJouo!puI Laed :S old
- 81 -



olqtoilddv 1oN
uo!Wlado lzanoJd lIoJ sJole!pul faX :9 alqu,L
I.........polduoo                                                                                 pl!dO        d TAJ!nudS! pooMJo .!pn.. l                                                                                                                              ApUu  ptM jIo!utpneel -
pawladwoo                                                               pagipadsul                                                                                 e,o3v lie ailY,¶ o1 UO!SaIQ GNddJo uo0nltsuo -
apaidwoa                                                               polpoadsun                                                                       xajdwoo aijiD 2uIu!nJl Ansopuj pooM jo uo!unnnsuoo -
IIuoIsIq adnS,za!SAaUd uill-p!l tuojJ -- sJoUJ!pQ pajI;poN '11,
pojaldmoj                                            soogyo 1s!uTupt pue Wleoqfl                                                                                                     !-WnX u! xsidwoa DIHOIJ°j  Uzoru!1nSuo -
..............................I..............................   ..................................................   .....................................................................................................................
pswildioo                                               sasnoq wman8: _jwis "pa3v                                                                                                       !sfWtnl Ut! xjlduon  NIljo uo!1ntusuo0 -
..................                                                              ...........................................................                              .................I.........................................................................................
Ou t61                                                                  oU V91                                                        (sazois g sao!go 'sasnoq) uo043nsuoojo sl!uf S¶IOM [l!Ab  [l501
...................... ....  .................................   ..................................................  ............................. ........................................................................................
ou 695                                                                 *ou OSb                                                                                                                                                        sapfoolou lj5oi -
,..............................    ..................................................  .....................................................................................................................
Ou LT I                                                                 Cou 591                                                                                                                            S[3!qA nqlo pue a, ,  lV l -
............................. ................. ,..............  .................................... ................................. ..........I.................................................................................................
:SJO$tJipuJ luawuajnaos .ja.p 
sneA uosnod b,                                                                                       SF15s OfliOd 1o3 )IIjj It sd!qsMo[pJ SI4unfO-UI -
sxeaA-UOsnd s                                                           se-uaAUOs ad                                                                                              jos oo   joj JOJ sd1MOjjaJ qlSasal seasaAO
..............                                       ................... ...........                                              ...........I......  ......... ................ .................................................. .....................--..-----..----.-----------4.e...
sqpox-usndgg                                                     nuomuoa~ 9                                                                                       oraoa I   puaW                      s nq *3uels!- (sjnint) renijuo; -
s.utA £ 105 s.WatutaWGeS £                                                            sja-Us>  £                                                                                                  geFs 818 .oJ NUI15 lesdUIsMOTI9J £unoo-ui -   |
.............................. .......................  ............... .................................................. .................................. ..........................................................................................................
pIsnun                                                           sneaA-uosad g                                                                                                                               MpesW 83 t01 prnursa s5TSIAso -
...................................................... .......  ............ ...................... ................  .... .................. ..............................................................................................
srpuow-uosnad g                                                        sqiuouz-uosn3d 8b                                                                                                              SdS u94QUl1as Ol OBs!ssv jt3Tuq3o) - 
(aS2snas) Sluepol  0                                                        lsaosupls                        O t[SOA   I ISI08                                                                          asJflo3 G1tOiJTJflO Uw 1uaUw[Tlo uaOsR3u1 - 
............................................................. ............................I......................   ........................................................................................................... .....  ....
paneadn Su!aqgplwIduzoa                                                                  palardwoo                                                                            sasinoa nqsaJajt + Wfl[OUCOn p~s~ioU!3p1U 
p1(35'o £nsaiog zuodung (q
ssA-Uosad bq                                                        s tA-uod 0                                                                             ~1                                                                          ol2ius .aSfA  -
Pnsnu.                                                        si uow-uosnad zi                                                                             ..                                              ..... 01 23lU 1Iu s Slta3u IO1 
ou 9t                                                                   ou og                                                                                                     wfl2. ueosd -nuzo1dza oi01u[ou aeJ                                                     -I
U 8tt.                                    .0i ....                                          .         .          5i ..................-.-.-.-.-.we...O nqS.                                                                                     uno. .     .u en .o.am asea
9                                                                      8V                                                                              :            dnosaU bi  iD uagJo --n,wsuz (o
....................... .................................................    ................................ .................................................. ..................... 9*  axaI...............
~~~~~~~~~~~ ................. ............................................ .....    ........................... ................................................. .......................... ................. ....... --~<''''' .pu epS 
sto-usd g                                            ~ auow-uoszo ad~ Su£uaz ..............S                                                                                               put uca±a Uaqua o11)0 SSutlS  jtn o  - q
0ou                 d O                                                o            801                                              (                              onwo) jsuoisspojoud w' [           a un')uw! 5Aojos uionpo3l - -
........................................ ........................................   .................................................. ........................... ..........................................................................................................
:sIddl pu SG3LPo Swu uOtjIu011 (p
sxssa-uosnad blj                                                          sno-uosnad bl                                                                                              sws GM 103s XJ'fll 1 sd!qsMo[[aJ M4unoo-ui - I
.......................................  .      ..............................  ...................           ......................... ............................ .........................................................................................................
waDnl) sipuow-uosasd >'z                                                         sruow-uoszsd 96                                                                                                               GM uorpiuaqs ci aouis!mss w'w'P51a -
...............................  i             .......................   ...........                               .................................  .........................................................................................................
ptqSiqlqesO kIln,                                                        paqS![qt2s0 AjjCJ                                                                                                                        WtS AIO1USAUTJO iuuijqs!qeXso - I
:Q0flJ SumtpuoQsu34 (3
............................................................. .................. .........                                                                   ......... ,..................................................I.........................................................
0ou                                                                      0U tou Zlnwno) [tUO!ssSJo d : ' w'u"dnl '11a u1!tUuJMS     wasroa3u'   -
........................ ...................................    .................. ................................  .....................................................................................................................
sipuow-uosnad SO S                                                         sIpuow-uosmnd r                                                                                                                  aii udsjs 0l uuelj jseuuqoa  -
..................  .......  ...........................  ........ I........                          ................................ I....................  ..........................................................................................................
0A4303J0 tou ;nq/pSijsi[qtss3                                                        paLsi[qalsj ojj                                                                .!f 0un utfl[tAa pu Suuouoais  -
pszrutS.zooj                                                              paziueSsoos*------                                                                                                               SUoisIAIp 1005} 01W uoxweznnSsaa  -
............................................................. .................................................. ......................-----..........................................................................
:saonosa  lviivVad jo auayoaps-uo.r   (q
OVa/duN  nAq  popi°d                                                             st uou-uosnad g                                                                                                                       iJt1.................. -G3N---         did oiUh15 ui      llA 
(        ejyjsov  +) uwd ooz                                           sqow-o   i£1                                                                                                            G3NJJ u3WUA) 01Sua5St UtT{f
............................................................. ........I................................ .................................................. ................................. ................................................................................
poqsijqenso A11nj                                                        psqs'[qnlso Allnj                                                                                                                    :1'1N ill U3N&50 tuuaqs!iqenso - I
: FjAj L SugurnpSuanp (e
.............................................................  ..................................................   ..........................................................I..........................................................
:SuwIomSu4o                s lsuo!lnfElsul -
__ __      __        __en               __        __       __          fa                             e    qs __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _      _Iuoda u  s,;uapjs5arjpjy                                                          uf Sa pJO$         U3JI      uo pwzeJ          waIduq   Lxa 
(p;nuijuoa>) UOEB,uJlU3laIdulI I:nr[OA: JOJ} SJOOMPUI LSax :S ajqw
- 61 -



- 20 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                   Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined   Status  _   Impact of study
1. Forest Industry      To study wood cutting practices, log export ban, log   Complet-d    Study recommended maintenance of the ban on
Protection Study        export tariffs and their impact on the envirounent          export of round logs. Its results used to
and the wood processing industry                           commission Fiscal Study of Forest and Forest
_   Industries Sector
2. Study of Employment    To examine the conditions of service of FD and WD    Completed    Served as basis to advance FD restructuring into a
Conditions of FD & WD    and make appropriate recommendations that will             semi-autonomous, self-fnancing organization.
attract and retain qualified staff and improve upon        WD would remain in Civil Service due to
work performance                                           inadequate fund generation sources.
3. Land and Tree Tenure    To study customary and official laws regarding land   Completed    Initiated reforms to provide farmers with
Study                   and tree tenure and review regulations and traditions       incentives to utilize and protect fann trees and
concerning bush fire                                       forests
4. Financial and        To evaluate Ghana's present industry condition and    Completed    Served as basis to improve the forest industry
Technical Audit of the  to pursue a development strategy to make the sector         condition and formulate effective Forest and
Ghana Wood Industry     efficient and competitive on the export market in the       Wildlife Development Master Plan
future.
5. Fiscal Study of Forest   To examine Ghana's forest fiscal regime relative to    Completed    Ghana's forest fiscal regime reformed and second
and Forest Industries   her policy objectives                                       tranche of quick disbursement component of credit
Sector                                                                              released
6. Institutional        To review SFS programs and curricula to reflect  Completed    Final report under review.
Strengthening of SFS    more closely the changing demands of the sector and
strengthen the training skills of training staff.
7. FPIB In-service      To design and implement training program for FPIB    Completed    Training programs designed and implemented
Training Program                                                               _
8. Participatory        To make a preliminary assessment of existing   Completed    Served as basis in formulation of proposed Natural
Approaches to Forest    activities of RFD in the Upper East Region; to              Resource Management Project
Resource Management in  initiate dialogue on adoption of new strategies by
Northern Ghana          RFD with emphasis on developing participatory
approaches to forest management, stafftraining
9. Protected Areas      To prepare management plans for WD protected   Completed    Management Plans prepared and funds being
Development             areas                                                       sought for their implementation
Consultancy
10. Tree Breeding       To review existing tree breeding programs of  Completed    New research programs recommended and
Consultancy             FORIG and to recommend a new program; to                    Completed. Different sources of genetic variation
advise on a tree breeding and research facility at         and their use indicated. Training of relevant staff
FORIG                                                      implemented
1 1. Strategic Workshop  Human capacity building and institutional    Completed   Informed decisions on FORIG Strategic Planning
Planning                strengthening for undertaking future National
Planning based on commissioned work programs
and national priorities
12. Forestry Research   To review FORIG's present research needs and  Compleled    Results formed basis for strategic planning
Review                  formulate a new program of research drawing on the          workshop
historical review & results from the conunissioning
procedure
13. THF Silviculture and   To review existing research program on silviculture    Completed    Nearly all short and medium-term project
Management              & management and identify possible gaps or                  proposals were implemented
deficiencies Draw up research projects to fill
identified gaps, or correct any deficiencies. Help
initiate implementation of programs for sustain-able
natural forest & plantation management.
14. FD Finance Study    To provide essential information on activity costing    Compleled    Will provide information data for deriving
and expenditure structure of FD                            manpower and operational budget for the new
I ________________________________________     _______      Forestry   Service



-21 -
Table 7 (continued): Studies Included in Project -- Studies Financed by ODA/DFID under FIMP
Study                    Purpose as defined at appraisal/redefined  | Status         [ Impact of study
1. Landsat Imagery of    To enable compilation of an inventory of off-reserve   Completed    Use limited as hardware and software to access
Forest Resources in      areas, identifying intact forest areas which could           imagety was not provided.
Southern Ghana           forn basis of pilot collaborative management
schemes of dedicated forests
2. Log Volume Tables     To provide a practical guide to forest mensuration  Completed    Use as a field-level handbook
for calculating log volumes using end diameters
3. Non-Timber Forest     To identify the utilization ofthe main NTFPs in  Completed    Formed a basis for integration into the
Products in Southern     rural households and to analyze their processing and          collaborative management planning process
lGhana                   marketing systems
4. Guidelines for the    Intended to provide guidance to District Forestry  Completed    Development of quantification techniques for
Identification and       Officers developing fire protection plans, including:         calculating "value" scores in terms of the intact
Management of Fire       risk assessment procedures and site prioritization for        nature ofthe forest, conservation value (genetic
Protection Areas         fire protection.                                              heat index) and the stand's economic value
5. Interim Procedures for    Defmes four-step procedure for felling of timber  Completed    Introduced, prior to the itroduction of new
F elling Trees Off-Reserve   trees outside reserves: pre-felling inspection; felling   legislation, and provided 'Ynterim Measures" to
permit procedure; post-felling inspection; and               control the illegal timber harvesting outside the
certificate of conveyance                                    forest reserves
6. Forest Regeneration   Reports on the effects of logging on the regeneration    Completed    Put forward proposals for improving logging
after Logging            of trees and plants in the Bia South Game                     practices, e.g., narrower roads, upper limits on
____________________   Production Reserve                                             number of trees felled, seed conservation, etc.
7. Fire Damage and       Summarizes temporary sample plot data over a    Completed    Provided standardized descriptions for fire-
Forest Regeneration in   broad scale and describes a more specialized                  damaged forests and guidance on good logging
C;hana                   regeneration study in Asukese Forest Reserve                  practice for fire-prone forests.
8. Field Guide to the    Gives a methodology for the identification of trees in   Completed    Provided a comprehensive field-level guide for FD
Forest Trees of Ghana    the Ghanaian rain forest, based on using main                 Technical Officers and others.
_____________________  species key and subsidiary keys.
9. Manual of Procedures -   Provides technical reference for plantation  Completed    Provided guides for FD Technical Officers
- Plantations: Section A -    development, describing planning methods,                responsible for canrying out field operations and
Planning                 including data collection, office procedures, etc.            for supervising field teams and labor.
10. Manual of Procedures   The second manual described nursery design,   Completed    Ditto
- Plantations: Section B -   construction and operation, including raising
Nursery                  planting stock of the most important species
11. Manual of Procedures   The third manual in the series outlines plantation  Completed    Ditto
- Plantations: Section C -   techniques, including site preparation and other field
Fiield Operations        operations.                                                                                               l
12. Manual of Procedures   This manual provides a systematic methodology for    Completed    Provided the fundamental methodology for
- Plantations: Section D -   undertaking: pre-survey compartment inspections;          ensuring that procedures are in place so that trees
Stock Survey & Yield     stock surveys; stock survey checking; stock map               are felled in forest reserves on a sustainable yield
Allocation               preparation; yield allocation criteria; and                   basis.
measurement of buttressed tree diameters.
1 3. Manual of Procedures   This manual describes the steps to be followed in the   Completed    Provided the basis for the development of the new
- Plantations: Section E -   design of the sequence of harvesting of                   Timber Utilization Contracts holders, who use the
Preparation of Timber    compartments, based on three managernent tools: a             harvesting schedules to ensure the supply of a
Harvesting Schedules for   forest protection strategy; a 40-year felling cycle;        sustainable supply of timber over the period of the
Forest Reserves          and a 5-year felling coupe size,                             felling cycle.
14. Forest Protection in  Outlines the status of protected areas and     Completed    The report highlighted the seriously threatened
Gbana                    summarized the results of a botanical survey using           nature of some reserves and recommended a new
Star categories based on genetic scarcity. The report        framework for their protective management.
also showed spatial variation of genetic heat indices
throughout the country.
15. Forest Plantations   Two studies for FD Plantations Unit, including  Completed    Provided the initial investigations for developing
Preparation Project      image interpretation and mapping, soil & land                 proposals for establishing a mechanisms for
suitability for teak plantations, forest inventory           promoting private sector plantations in conjunction
validation, yield modeling, socio-economic and               with an intemational financing institution.
=L_                       environmental impact assessment.



-22 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
l_________________         _ |      Appraisal estimate (US$ milion      _    Actualllatest estimate (US$ million)
Item _                         Local costs  i Foreign costs    Total    Lacal costs2' I Foreign costs    Total
1. Policy Reform                                  15.0         15.0                        15.0          15.0
2. Forest Management 2             3.3            8.4          12.7     _                   -             13.0
3. Rural Forestry Development      2.7            5.4          9.1      _                   -             7.2
4. Insitutional Strengthening      3.0            7.9          11.7                         -           22.7 4'
5. Education and Training          2.5            5.4          8.6      _                   -             6.0
6. Forestry Research               2.8            3.9          7.5      _                   -             4.7
PPF refund                                                 _- 64.6           -              -             0.4
TOTALPROJECTCOST2            ]     18.6     [    46.0          64.6         14.2           54.8          69.0
v At appraisal it was estimated that local costs would include US$3.1 million in customs dluties and taxes. Details of taxes and duties were
not separately identified within the project accounts. However, all forex disbursements wore exempted from local duties and taxes, and
actual disbursement figures provided by the FRMP/PCU include all duties and taxes under the GOG contribution. Therefore, no adjustment
has been made to the figures to reflect duties and taxes.
2' Local costs were also not clearly distinguishable in the project accounts on a component basis and, thus, a detailed breakdown between
local and foreign costs is not possible.
' Project accounts did not distinguish expenditure in the Forestry Department between the Forest Management and Institutional
Strengthening components. Therefore, actual expenditure on Forest Management based solely on ODA disbursements (i.e., ignoring civil
works, motorcycles and equipment procured through IDA.
i' Apparently high actual figure due partly to increased expenditure on civil works and vehicles/equipment following MTR reallocation; but
also to possibly incorrect allocation among categories of Forest Management, Rural Forestry and Institutional Strengthening in project
accounts. IDA disbursement figures combine these three components.
2' Estimated total costs at completion includes foreign exchange gain between SDR and US$.
Table 8B: Project Financing
I      i               I       Appraisal estinate (US$ million)  J       Actual/atest estimate (US$ million)
Source                          Local costs [ Foreign costs |   Total    |    Local costs  Foreign costs"   Total
IDA"                               5.9          33.5          39.4            11.4             32.3         43.7
DANIDA2'                           2.9           5.4          8.3                                -           8.3
ODA"                                -           7.1           7.1              -                             7.9
IDomestic contribution               9.8            -           9.8             9.0                            9.0
TOTAL (rounded)                   18.6          46.0                                     1 64.6  =          69.0
v Total actual disbursement by IDA US$43.72 million up to 30 September 1997.
2'Mission estimate. Danida actual disbursement not finalized.
Y'Now DFID. Contributions in Pounds Sterling: at appraisal equivalent to US$7. 1 million; final actual disbursement £4.8 million.
' ODA/DFID funding of entire foreign exchange cost of Forest Management Component throuph FIMP.



- 23 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Financial Benefits
Fundamental to the design of the project was the introduction of policy reforms related to changes in forest revenue
policies. Therefore, the financial cost recovery projections for the project were based on the assumption that the royalty
fee collection rate could be increased from 17 percent before the project to around 50 percent at project completion.
Although initially correct, this assumption has proved to be too conservative, and by 1997 it would appear that royalties
were being charged (although not necessarily collected in that year) on almost 100 percent of the legally felled timber
(i.e., on the total removable volume, rather than the actually removed volume). However, the royalty fees rates have
not been increased progressively throughout the project period, and the potential revenues of the project's institutional
strengthening component have therefore not been fully realized. A comparison of the SAR projected royalties, both on
and off-reserve and including concession rent, with those actually collected by the Forestry Department is shown in the
fbllowing table:
Royalties collected by FD:A      1989       1990       1991       1992       1993       1994       1995       1996
Tot Roya   tie      ..........  ................   ...........................................
Appraisal collection estimate   2 136.0   ..487.0   ,  584.0      13620.   1 .  1,5570 .. 2,627.0 I-.-.|
Actual collection                                               .            1,249.6    2,765.2    10,633.1   10,275.5
............................................................... ..................................................................................................................
Actual as % of estimate        ..80%                                                    105%
In US$ million in constant prices: 3
Appraisal collection estimate   0663   .2319         ,2691       6i163      6982   i 1 676
... ....................................................................  ......................;..........   ;.................;..............    ;.........
Actual collection                             .                              1.785   . 2.822   ,  8.506       6.503
...     .....     ................................................................................................................. .............................................::::::::
Actual as % of estimate        .26%                                                   .24%
"There is a time lag between tbe actual billing and payments made. For 1996, for example, the backlog of payments was in excess of the actual billed
amount for the year - corresponding to the SAR's assumption of a one-year lag in revenue collection.
1 Based on SAR assumed collection rates and a concession rent at 10% of the overall royalties.
1'Assuming average annual SAR and actual exchange rates.
The significant difference in the projected royalty collection in constant prices has resulted from the far higher rate of
inflation compared to the SAR forecast (the exchange rate for 1994 was assumed at Cedi 225/US$, while the actual rate
was Cedi 980/US$). This underlines the importance of linking increases in royalty rates to international prices and the
need for frequent revision.
IEconomic Benefits
Primary Forest Products: The SAR estimated that there was a difference of as much as 33-50 percent between the
estimated annual average cut (at that time in excess of 2-2.7 million m3) and the actual amount exported or delivered to
mills -- meaning that up to 50 percent of the salable and harvested timber remained on the forest floor. The project,
through all its activities related to forest management and institutional strengthening, including research, education and
training, intended to reduce this wastage. The assumed economic benefits of the project were through achieving a
reduction in log wastage of 1.5-3 percent in year 2, increasing to 7.4-15 percent from year 6 onwards.
The lack of an effective monitoring and evaluation system  has prevented the tracking of these improvements.
Therefore, an economic revaluation of the project has not been undertaken. However, evidence that the annual average
cut has been reduced to around the recommended sustainable level of I million m3 (including approximately 20 percent
firom illegal cutting) and that the measures taken have substantially contributed to the improvement of royalty collection
and to a reduction in illegal logging would suggest that the level of wastage in harvesting must also have been
significantly been reduced. Given that the economic costs for achieving these benefits do not critically vary from those
contained in the SAR, the SAR's estimated economic rate of return (ERR) of 24.8% is likely to have been achieved.
Thus, overall, the project has contributed to the long-term economic and environmental benefits of reducing harvesting
wastage and, thereby, decreasing the deficiency in the supply of timber.



- 24 -
It should be stressed, however, that the benefits of reducing wastage apply only to the harvesting level, and that
only limited improvements have been achieved so far in the processing industry (which still has an installed
capacity of in excess of 2 million m3 per annum). Although not included in the SAR's economic analysis, the
policy reform component, in promoting a rationalization of the timber trade, has not yet had the full impact that
was expected at project preparation. On the positive side have been the promotion of kiln drying and the
introduction of short-term training courses for the private sector at the newly-constructed Wood Industry Training
Centre. The real impact on the industry itself is yet to be felt, particularly in the restructuring of the industry and
the rationalization of milling methods, both to promote the use of lesser-used species and to use more appropriate,
and less wasteful, processing technology (e.g., finger jointing, impreved joinery methods, small-diameter log
processing, pressure impregnation, etc.).
Secondary Forest Products: The other component considered in the SAR's economic analysis was the benefits
expected from the rural forestry development component. The main lproduct benefits estimated in the analysis
were from rural and urban fuelwood, charcoal and poles. Other important non-timber forest products, such as
bushmeat, medicinal plants and live animal exports, were considered but not included in the economic analysis.
The SAR estimated that the rural forestry development component would result in an ERR of 12.9%. The
implementation of a wider-ranging program, including for example the widespread planting of fruit trees,
combined with the planting of annual crops in alley-cropping systems, and again the lack of close monitoring, does
not allow a completely valid comparison with the SAR projections. However, a "crude" estimate is possible, based
on the following assumptions:
* due to lack of research on the potential yields from fuelwood species such as Senna Siamea (research at
FORIG was largely confined to timber species), only limited information is available. However, based on
the experience of other countries in the region, the mean annual increment (MAI) for Senna Siamea is
likely to be in the order of 8 ni3. Yields are unlikely to be higher than this, as planting was typically on
degraded areas and there was a general lack of experience in both quality seed production and field
maintenance.
e the total area planted to woodlots during the program with MLFIRFD assistance was 5,679 hectares.
e the total area planted in the program under MOA/AFU was 17,661 hectares, with around 12.5 percent of
the total area (i.e., 2,208 hectares) under woodlots and the balance in fruit trees and alley-cropping.
- the overall planted area was about 23,340 hectares -- compared to an estimated 35,000 hectares intended
under the SAR.
- fuelwood production in one rotation would be about 63,093 n3, equivalent to a MAI of 10,516 mn3.
e the SAR's average price in 1988 for fuelwood, including charcoal, was Cedi 1,420 per m3. Assuming that
marketing margins accounted for 50 percent, converting to economic costs using a factor of 0.85 (as in the
SAR), and using the SAR's $ exchange rate, results in a farngate economic price of US$4.11/m3. This is
only marginally lower than recently obtained figures of around US$4.3/m3.
* the implementation of the agro-forestry sub-component was radically different from what was anticipated
in the SAR -- with the inclusion of fruit trees (predominately catshew) and alley cropping associated with
the fuelwood planting, usually using maize.
* The incomes for these crops are included in the analysis: (i) fcr cashew nut (Anancardium occidentale)
based on information derived from an FAO regional cooperation program for Africa (for Zambia and
Mozambique) using conservative yields, extensive spacing, minimum maintenance and a low farngate
price (assuming no local processing), and (ii) for maize, based on a recent FAO assessment, again using
conservative yields and assuming no use of improved technology in improved seeds, additional fertilizer
or fungicides during storage.
. therefore, including the additional revenues from fruit trees and annual cropping, the benefits of the
component are substantially higher than the SAR estimates, although with a time lag in receiving them of
about 1-2 years.
* this would produce a revised ERR in the order of 28%, compared to the SAR's 12.9%.
* it should be noted, however, that on its own the fuelwood would not produce a positive ERR
* in addition to the inclusion of the other products, the analysis takes no account of the costs of the former
FAO project assisting the AFU in establishing the agro-forestry program.



- 25 -
Social and Environmental Benefits
Although an environmental impact assessment was not required at the time of project preparation, environmental
factors played a major part in the design of the project.
Rural Forestry Development Component: In addition to its main financial and economic benefits, the rural
forestry development component had clear social and environmental benefits. Although it is not yet possible to
quantify (or in some cases, observe) all the benefits, the main short- and long-term impacts of the planting program
are:
* household use and income from firewood and charcoal;
* poles for building construction and for sale;
* fruit for home consumption and surplus for marketing as cash income;
* fodder for livestock feed;
* shade planting and windbreaks for protection of buildings and crops against damage;
* income from the sale of seedlings -- with the virtually full privatization of production;
• income from medicinal plants;
* soil fertility improvements of farm lands, possibly leading to increased arable crop yields;
* reductions in soil erosion and weed growth; and
* increased soil-water retention.
EBy the end of the project (1996 data), the overall impact of the rural forestry development component (see also
ALppendix 3) was as follows:
LSub-component |Main activities                         |Area planted/adopted |No. of farmners involved
EAXro-foresty ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ar ,Futre,lecopnbudapl  S!ng,Rc   17,661 ha        16,1381
Rual fbrest     do  5nii  l                                   ,67 hai
Total                                                   *     23,340 ha              27,1381
General Environmental Impact: The SAR also recognized the general contribution the project was likely to have
en the environment, in both the high forest and savannah zones. The potential impacts, identified, but not
quantified in the analysis, included an increase in the extent of vegetative cover and a slowing of the rate of erosion
of biomass, and the promotion of soil conservation and hydrological stabilization. Where the project has had a
significant impact, as part of the forest management component, was in: (i) inventorying forest resources in the
high forest zone, allowing a more effective monitoring of the allowable annual cut; and (ii) promoting the
protection of biodiversity and endemic species. The latter was implemented by undertaking a comprehensive
botanical survey of Ghana's forests. This led to the recognition that the condition of the reserve areas was not as
intact as was formerly believed and to identifying, and quantifying, the ecological and economic value of
biodiversity-rich areas. Both of these findings will form the basis for more effective future conservation planning
and have been instrumental in the development of a GEF-financed biodiversity conservation component of the
proposed Natural Resources Management Project (NRMP).



-26 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant Present   Original    Revised
Agreement Section   type       status    fulfillment  fulfillment  Description of covenant                     Comments
date       datel
Cr. 1976    2.02 (b)   4       C                                Borrower to open and maintain special accounts for  Completed
______ __  _ __ MLF, AFU, IRNR and FORIG
3.02 (b)   4        CP                               Borrower to deposit futids in project accounts for    Partial compliance
FD, WD, AFU, IRNR and FORIG promptly before
each month starting October 1, 1989, and
Borrower's contributions towards expenditures for
______  ______  _____  _____ X_____   _____I the corresponding project components.
4.01 (b)   1                                         Borrowerto supply anrual audit reports by June 30  Final audit report now due
& (C)                                                of each year                                                             ll
4.02      5         CP                               Borrower not to ban log exports of any species,  Partial compliance with the
except those banned as Df October 1, 1998, until an  lifting ofthe ban for kiln-dried
action plan has been prepared and agreed upon with  lumber. Action plan prepared.
_ IDA based on a study orwood cutting practices    __ll
6.01               C                                 Conditions of effectiveress                   Completed
Sch. 4    13       CD                                Conditions for 2nd Traunche Release (SDR 5.73  Completed
million) quick-disbursing component
Sch. 4 (1) 2       CD                                Increase of timber royalty fees to 12% of FOB  Fees increased in February
average value, less the cost of logging and   1995 to 5-8 percent of FOB
transportation                                value without deduction of
logging and transport costs
Sch. 4 (2) 2       C                                 Increase to 50% the weight of concession rent  Borrower has implemented a
offered by applicants in the allocation of timber  competitive concessions
concessions, and agreement on timetable to increase  allocation procedure under
the weight to 60%                             which the concession rent
offered by applicants
prequalified on technical
grounds is the sole detenninant
of the award
Sch. 4 (3) 10      CP                                Submnission to IDA of an action plan for      Substantial improvement not
improvement in the FD and WD staff incentive  realistic within Civil Service.
system                                        Borrower is committed to
implementing recommendations
of a study on reconstituting FD
as a semi-autonomous forest
service
Sch. 4    9        C                                 Completion and discussion with IDA of study on  Done
(4a)                                                 wood cutting practices, log export bans and tariffs;
assessment of the above on the environment and on
wood processing mdustry
Sch. 4    9        C                                 Based on above study, Borrower to prepare and  Plan prepared
(4b)                                                 agree with IDA on an action plan
X_______ 0Sch. 5 (1) 9         C          12/91    XXMid-Tern Review                                           Completed in February 1992
Sch. 5 (3) 9       CD                                Project executing agencik-s to submnit to IDA their    Done, but not always timely
annual budgets and worlplans by September 1 of
each year
Sch. 5 (6) 9        C         10/01/90   06/30/94   FD to be responsible for collection of royalty fees    Responsibility transferred to
and the control of all concessions            FD, and collection of fees
_________                                                                                     imnproving
Sch. 5    2         CD        01/31/92               Borrower to increase royalty fees to at least 1S% of  Borrower raised royalties to 5%
(7b)                                                the FOB average value of exportable logs (less the   of FOB value in 1994 and to
cost of logging and transport)                11-12% in 1995 and introduced
15-30% ad valorem log export
levies in 1994
Sch. 5    2        NC                                Borrower to review royalty fees by September 1 each Legislative instrument
(7b)                                                 year and, if warranted, adjust them to reflect changes empowering MLF to adjust
in FOB values, exchange rates and local costs  royalty fees to account for
changes in costs, prices and the
exchange rate is before
Parliament



- 27 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants - continued
c Covenant Present   Original    Revised   1
Agreemrent Section   type     status    fulfillment  fulfillment JDescription of covenant                    Comments
Sch. 5 (8) 2       CP                               Borrower to pernit the FD to deposit royalty fees in  FD keeps 10% of royalty fees
the Forestry Improvement Fund and use funds to    and uses other income as
cover its recurrent and capital costs as approved in  liquidity for current expenditure
________  ________  ________  _________             the  annual budget
Sch. 5    5        C                                Rural Forestry Division of the FD to be established   Comnpleted
(10)
Sch. 5    5        C                                FD to establish a Planning and Monitoring Unit  Completed, but under MLF
(12)         _                                      under the Chief Conservator of Forests
Sch. 5    5        CP                               FD to submit to IDA annual proposals by 1    Salaries were increased by 60-
(13)                                                September to adjust salary and incentives of FD and 80% in 1992
WD field staff
Sch. 5 (15 9       CD        09/30/91               Borrower to cause the PPMED to prepare a National Forest and Wildlife Policy
a,b,c)                                              Forest Strategy (NFS) by 1131/1991, submit the  adopted in 1994
same to IDA not later than 4/30/199 1, and publish
the NFS by 9/30/1991
Sch. 5    9        C                                Borrower (WD) to prepare amendmnents to the  In compliance
(17)                                                Ghana Wild Animnal Preservation Act of 1961 by
June 30, 1989, submit these to IDA by July
_______ _______ _______ ________                    31,1989, and thereafter enact them
Covenant Class                                                          Status
1 - Accounts/ audit                                                     C        - Complied with
2  - Financial performance/ generate revenue from beneficiaries         CD       - Compliance after delays
3  - Filow and utilization of project funds                             NC       - Not complied with
4  - Counterpart funding                                                SOON   - Compliance expected in reasonably short time
5  - Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency       CP       - Complied with partially
6  - E]nvironmental covenants                                           NYD      - Not yet due
7 - ]nvoluntary resettlement
8 - ]ndigenous people
9  - Mqonitoring, review and reporting
10 - Implementation
11 - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12 - Sectoral or cross - sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13 - ODther
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not Applicable



- 28 -
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                  Original Planned I             Planned' i                     Actual
Weeks    US$ ('000)         Weeks   |  US$ j-00)          Weeks    [ US$ ('000)
Preparation to appraisal u                                                           _     40.3            100.1
Appraisal                                                                                  39.5            85.4
Negotiations throigh Board approval      _                    -                  _          19.1           49.2
Supervision                         43           105.0        43            84.7           217.2           572.5
Completion                          12.1         43.8         12.1         43.8             i0  26.5 A
TOTAL                                                                   _                 326.1          833.7
Notes: Includes labor and travel expenses.
"Only data from the second half of FY96 are available.
u Only data from pre-appraisal mission in FY87 are available.
3'Allocation to FAO/CP.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Peronmance rating
Number                 Specialized   Implementation Development
Stage of                Month!       of       Days in     staff skills     status    | objectives   Types of problems
project cycle            year      persons     field     represented
Foresty Sector Review    411986      -          21
Identification!        2/1987        5          20      E, F, 1, AF
Preparation                                  _
Preappraisal           11/1987       4          16      -                                                                       l
Appraisal              2/1988        6          16                           -  =
Policy Support         7/1988        1          3       FA                   -             -
Supervision            2/1990        2          12      F, E                 2            2        Project management
Supervision            10/1990       3          10      F, NR, E             3            3        IDA disb., project mngmt   _
Supervision            8/1991        1 1        3       E                    3            3        Project mngmt. ,DA disb.
Mid-Tern Review        2/1992        2          10      E, F                 3            2        Policy reforms, IDA disb.,
1____ _____ 1__I_L__ L__I                               _                   counterpart funding
Supervision          |/1992          3          18      D, E, F              3            3        PolicyIreforms,DA disb.
Supervision            2/1993        3          12      PM, E, F             3            3        Harvesting controls, counterpart
________              ________   ____________    _______                    funding
Supervision            6/1993        3          9       PM, E, F             3            2        Harvesting controls, counterpart
funding, financial mngmt
Supervision            11/1993       6          23      F, FA, AC, E         3            2        Counterpart funding, coordin.
of agro-forestry extension
_________ _I_I         __                  activities
Supervision            5/1994        3          23      FA, F, E             3            2        Policy refbrms, institutional
capacity, coordin. of agro-
forestry extension activities,
participatory savannah forest
IL_I_I_I_II __             mngmt, monitoring
Supervision            5/1995        2          8       F, TM                S            S        Harvesting limit, counterpart
funding, monitoring ofagro-
ll _______________      _______    _______    _______                   ______I_    _   _______     forestry   activities
Supervision            11/1996       2          15      TM, F                S            S        Counterpart funding,
monitoring of agro-forestry
ll _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ ___  activities
Completion"             10/1997       2          16      F, E                 S             S _  S
E: Economist; F: Forester, I: Institutions Specialist; AF: Agro-Forester, FA- Financial Analyst; NR: Natural Resources Specialist;
D: Disbursement Officer, PM: Project Manager, AC: Accountant; TM: Task Manager.
t1Led by FAO/CP.



GHANA: FOREST RE,SOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LoanlCredit No. CR 19760 - GH)
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire (Draft)
I. Introduaction
l    S At the request of the Government of Ghana (GO&) and the VIB an FAO/IC mission 'visited
Ghana from 29 October to 14 November 1997 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) 'or the IDAiDanida/ODA/GOG-finded Forest Resource Management Project (FRMP) which
started in November 1989 and closed in June 1997. The outputs from the ICR are expected to bc
incorpcrated into the final design of the proposed Natural Resources Management Project @(RMP).
2.  'IThie mission worked in close co-ordinat,on with the Ministry of Lands and Forestry kMLF), in
particular with Mr. Kofi Smith Technical Director and Mr. Guy Symnes, Adviser, and with Mr. James
Amissah, Project Administrator and Mr. Wisdom Dafeamekpor, Financial Controller, both' of the
FRMP Project Coordination Unit (PCU). Data was made available at th: FRMNP PCU and from .ht;
WB offices in Waslhington and Accra. In addition, thc mission hcld discussions with the 'Task
Manager and liaised with the WB Mission in Ghana on procedural aspects of the ICR preparation.
3.   The mission held discussions with all the project executing agencies and made visits to the
Sunyani Forestry School (SFS) and, in Kumasi, with the Forestry Department's Planning Branch
(FDPB), the Institute of Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR), the Forestry Institute Lf Ghana
(FORId) and the Timber Export Development Board's (TEDB) Wood Industry Trai} ing Centre
(W1TC;. Field visits were also made to the Volta, Northem and Upper East Regions.
4-  iv. wrap-up Meeting, chaired by Mr. K ofi Smith, was organised at the MLF on Friday 14
Noveni Der 1997 to discuss the main findings of the ICR Mission.
U. Thui Project
S.   Jt  O            The FR1P had threz main objectives which were aimed at sharpening the
focus of policy programmes in the sector tL rc agli: (i) managing industrial forestry production and
export eamings in accordance with a sustaincd yield policy; (ii) promoting conservation and tree
plantir.,, on farms to counteract fuelwood shortage and ecological deterioration; and (iii)
strengtlhening the structural base of the sector and its institutions to enable them to cany out the
necessary reforns, increase revenue generation, improve protection and management of the forest
and wildlife resources, and lay the foundations for developing a methodology to quantify
environmental and ecological benefits.
6.   I -oiect Components: To achieve these objectives, the FRMP had six main components:
(i) Plolicy Reforms: relating to the future efficiency, productivity, viability and sustaniability of
tLie forestry sector, including: (i) changF(s in forest revenuc policy; (ii) changes in methods for
I Ilocating logging concessions; (iii) im,-.rovements in staff incentives; and (iv) rationalisation
; f the timnber trade policy- This was to be implemented through the MLFh and ton bed to he 
;u.aick disbursement of two tranches of crc:dit (totaling UIS$ 1S nillion). The first rele ise was at
I13an effectiveness and the second traniche was intended 18 months later and to ,Lepend on
!neeting a sct of additional conditions; (a) the increase in royalty fees to 12 per cent; (b)
increased concession rents; (c) lifting ,. ',he export ban on logs and replacement with export
tariffs; and (d) furter improvements in professional and technical staff recruitment and
i acentives, 
(ii) Forest Management: to achieve improved management of productive forest resources to
meet domestic and export needs for timber, fuelwood and other forest products on sustained
yield basis, as well as improving forest and wildlife reserve management to protect
P g __ -_ T 1 - -T   . _  _            A I_U_
Page I



watersheds, endangered species and important ecosysterns. The activities supported by the
component were to include: (i) the srengthening of the Forestry Department's Planning
Branch (FDPB) capacity for production of working plauis for 1.7 million hectares of forest
rescrves, (ii) the completion of forest inventories for 600,000 hectares of the High Forest; (iii)
extending mapping of the High Forest outside the reserves using satellite imagery; (iv) survey
and rehabilitation of 30,000 hectares of existing indtstrial forest plantations; an<d (v)
strengthening regional-level forest management, including buffer zones around forest reserves.
This component was to be implemented through the FDPB in Kumasi, and co-financed by the
Overseas Development Administration (ODA) and IDA (t;otaling US$ 12.7 2min);
(iii) Rural Forestry Development Programme: to be jointly implemented through the FD of
MILF and the Crop Service of the Ministry of Agriculture (tSS 2. Lillion). The main
activities envisaged were; (i) socio-economic surveys to determine attitudes to tree planting;
(ii) upgrading of existing nurseries and establishment of ncw nurseries to provide and
distribute around 7 million seedlings, equivalent to 3,000 hectares of plantations; (iii)
provision of cxtension and motivation to populanse tree planting; (iv) monitpring and
evaluation of impact; (v) establishment of 40 demonstration areas in 14 dis4icts; (vi)
rehabilitation of savannah forest reserves; (vii) studies to establish measures t reduce
e.icroachment into forest reserves and to review land and tree tenure laws and customs; and
(viii) support to FORIG on agroforestry adaptive research;
(iv) Strengthening of Forestry Sector Institutions: by enhancing organizational, monitoring and
mranagement skills within the NMf, including establishing a Planning, Policy, Monitoring and
Evaluation Department (PPMED) within the Ministy, and financing activities in the Forestry
Department, the Wildlife Department (WD), the Timber Elxport Development Board (TEDB)
and the Forest Products Inspcction Bureau (FPIB). The main focus of the implementation was
envisaged through technical assistance, staff training and the supply of civil works, vehicles
and equipment (totaling US$ 14.7 million);
(v) iborestry Education and Training: to improve the relevance (e.g. more emphasis on agro-
forestry, wood technology and wildlife management) and quality of training in the natural
resource management sector, as well as to increase the number of trained techrical and
professional staff in the public and private sectors. This would be imnplemented through the
provision of support (civil works, equipment and technical assistance) to the Institute of
Rencwable Natural Resources (IRNR) in Kumasi and the Sunyani Forestry Schc.ol (SFS)
(lotaling UtS$ 8.6 milin); and
(vi) liorestry Research: implemented by the Forestry Research Institute of Ghana (FORIG) to
strengthen their capacity (through civil works, equiprnent and technical assistance) to
determine sector priorities and to implement an adaptive research programme for natural forest
management, agro/rural forestry and the utilization of forest products, including the use of
secondary specics GLS$7.5 million).
7.   Total project costs were estimated at USS 64  6 Tillion, including the quick disbursement
tranches. Financing was through an IDA Credit of US$ 39.4 million, a Governmezt of Ghana (GOG)
contribution equivalent to USS 9.8 million, and grant funding from DANIDA (Denmark) of USS 8.3
million and ODA (UK) of £ 3.7 million (USS 7.1 million).
8.   ELgiect Innuts: Financing of the six components of the FRMP was intended to provide thc
followiiLg inputs:
a.  Quick disbursement tranches: Component (i) - totaling US$ 15.0 million, with the funds
imitended to be used for the import of equipment, vehicles, materials and spare parts for the
fi,restry sector;
b.  Investment costs: Components (ii - vi) - totaling US$ 36.317 million and including: civil
works for construction of staff housing ar d offices for the FD, IRNR, SFS, WD and MOA, and
ntw teaching/laboratory accommodation for 1RNR and FORIG (USS 10.107 million);
procurement of 4-WD and other vehicles (US$ 5.747 million); equipment/rnaterials, including
office, camp and field equipment, as well as satellite imagery (US$ 6.809 million); technical
assistance, totaling 891 person months (US$ 10.969 million); and in-service training for MLF
3 Since 1997; the Department for International Developmeni: (DFID)
Page 2



staff and undergraduatc and post-graduate fellowships for training, both in Ghana and abroad
(US$ 6.809 million), and
c.  Recurrent costs: Components (ii - vi) - totaling USS 13.309 million, including vehicle
operations, plant and equipment maintenance and incremental cost of salaries and allowances .
ml. Achievement of Project Objectives
9.     enemrl: The project has a long history going back to identification and preparation missions
in the early 1980s. In its present form, the project's origin was the FAO Forestry Review in 1986,
followed by a request for the project from GOG in December 1987. The project was appraised in
March  988, with the draft (yellow cover) Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) being prepared in June
1988. Loan negotiations were undertaken in October 1988, followed by Board presentation in
Decemcer, signature of the Credit Agreement in April 1989, with Loan Effectiveness announced in
November 1989.
10. "he project implementation had a slow start, with disbursement during the first year being
only 0.'2 per cent of the SAR estimate (excluding the Ist quick disbursement tranche). The project
had two time extensions: from June 30, 1995 to June 30, 1996 and then to June 30, 1997. Budget re-
allocations between the disbursemcnt categories were made on three occasions: in 1992, 1993 and
195, with only minor overall financial implications. In addition to the supervision from the WB
ACcra Office (post mid-1994), nine supervision missions were undertaken by the WB, the most
c#rical being the Mid-Term Review in February 1992, at which major project design modifications
were made including: (i) the creation of an overall project operations unit wifhin MLF; (ii) a decision
that the WB resident mission would "supervise" local procurement; and (iii) niodifications to the
CTedit Agreement including the amalgamation of 8 special accounts into 2 accounts and reducing the
oNerall amount of technical assistance, whilst increasing IDA and Danida's disbursemcnt proportions
b1tveevi civil works and operating costs.
" .he release of the second quick disbursement tranche (which was expected 18 months after
thi prciect start i.e. by mid-1991) was delaycd due to GOG difficulties in fulfilling the four critical
pqlicy- eform actions required to trigger the release. Only one was met at the time of the Mid-Term
Rcvicw in 1982 - the increase in royalty fees to 12 per cent of the FOB price, less transportation and
logging costs. Following a reassessment of the specifics of the policy reforms and tkming into
aqcount. changing economic and constitutional circumstances, combined with GOG's comrritment to
i#plementing a coherent forest (timbcr) policy, the second tranche was released to the Ministry of
Fipance in August 1995.
12. Main Achievements of the Project: Despite the initial disbursement delays and difficulties in
introducing policy reforns, relatcd to the evolution towards a constitutional government, FRMP has
been relatively successful: (i) in upgrading the skills and morale of personnel in the sector; (ii) in
improving forest management procedures; (iii) with introducing agro-forestry programnmes; and (iv)
in encouraging pnvate-sector oriented reforms. Specifically, the achievements in meeting the project
objectives have been as follows:
(i)  Managing industrial forestry production: this was implemented partly through the overall
f olicy reforms, related to quick disbursement tranches, and also through the institutional
strengthening assistance given to the T'TDB and FPIB, including helping them to establish a
dialogue with wood logging and processing industies, promoting the use of new technology
(@.g. kiln drying) and providing training to operatives in the industry, primarily through short
it ourses for both technical and manage-dia. staff at the Wood Industry Training Centre
Pforc directly, this objective was met thrmugh assistance to the FD Plamning Branch4. Overall,
trie project has created the basic capacity to improve the management, control and production
L-om Ghana's productive forest resources on a sustainable yield basis. This includes: (i) the
strengthening of the Planning Branch to prepare inventories. harvesting schedules and,
recently integratcd management plans, including the production of various technical mnanuals
* This activity was finxanced by ODA from 1985 through the following projects: (i) 'he Forest
Inventory Project (PIP: 1985 - 1990); (ii) the Forest Inventory and Management Project
(PIMP: 1990 - 1996); and (iii) the Forest Sector Development Project (1996 to 1S398). FRMP
increased the capacity of intervention of the planning branch between 1990 and 1997
mainly through providing equipment and civil works. This component was dominated by a
large amount of technical assistance.
,2age 3



of procedure on plantation dcvelopment, stock survey, harvesting schedules, logging
management planning; (ii) delineation and inventory of pearmanent and temporary sample plots
in forest reserves; (iii) the preparation of 16 Forest Manajgement Unit's Plans and of working
plans; (iii) regular production of forest reserve control rqports by the District Forest Offices;
(iv) production of production yield tables before harvesting approval; (v) in-service training of
the staff and various field technical teams; (vi) the survey and mapping of some forest areas;
(-i) preparation of a guide to non-timnbkr forest product production and management; (vii)
iniventory and harvesting control of existing FD plantations; (viii) forest inventory off-forest
reserve areas; (ix) a reconnaissance survey of the savannah area; and (x) intensification of
control against illegal logging. directly through the FD's iprocess of tracking logs, ,introduced
tlhrough the Interim Measures and monitored by means of the FPIB certification sys*ern.
Compared to the SAR, *he main delays in achieving the objectives were in concession data
computerisation and preparation in conjunction with WD of a botanical/ zoological inventory
(which is ongoing). On the issue of plantation development, although much planning and
mapping activities were undertaken, the basic SAR goal of rehabilitating existing plantations
was not achieved. - largely because GOG policy shifted away from the FD undcFtakng the
work itself to promoting the use of the private sector for plantation develop nent. The
development of a simple system for participatory (collaborative) managemcnt system (based
on the pilot progranue) was initiated late, as was tie development of an effective fire
protection and anti-encroachment programme. This approach to forest management has
evolved from the harvesting plans (in the SAR) to an integrated collaborative rn;anagement
planning process, based around using a log frame for monil:oringL
'I he strengthening of the Planning Branch has been particularly significant in, providing
quantitative and reliable information oiI which to base the policy reforms in the Wector; the
availability of inventory data enabled an qassessment to be made and better control o e Meanto
Annual Cut, enabling more accurate estimatcs to be made: of potential royalties arid work on
the Interim Measures allowed effective mechanis-ms to be: put in prior to the passing of new
legislation. Royalty collections now effectively covers 100 per cent, but actual recoycry is still
only around 30 per cent (although, the project has significantly allowed the disbuisement of
timber royalties to the local traditional authorities). In adldition, the issue of reforming the
allocation of concessions and the improvement of staff incentives was not fully addressed by
the project, in part because they are both not fully under the control of the ED.
(ii) Promoting conservation and tree planting: implemented through the compone4t on rural
forestry which has globally succeeded in promoting conservation and tree planting at faim
level mainly oriented to the various savannah areas of the country It was successful in: (i)
irmplementing an intensive extension progranmrc to promote rural and agro-forestry techniqucs
in  the country including institutional strengthening, training  and adaptive research
programmes; (ii) encouraging on-farm uree planting and creating awareness of people for agro-
;orestry; and (iii) initiating private seedling production and selling of trees. TlEe project
approach changed progressively fromn central nurseries, staff training, project-owned
demonstrations and imported technology Transfer to individual and community nurseries, use
extension and farmer training, on-farm demonstration and local technology transfe:r. These
ativities were implemented tbrough the crearion of two separate implementation entities; (i)
the promotion of on-farm agro-forestry, principally through the national unified extension
system.
Rural forestry has been the slowest of all project activities to take off and it was not uLtil 1995
that RFD initiated pilot activities on panicipatory savannah woodland managenlent in the
tipper East Region. AFU has successfully and progressively privatised seedling production
and agro-forestry trials and demonstration. In 1996, the Jnit had 131 on-farm trials and 47
demonstration sites which scrved as training centres. Trials are based on the replication of five
major promising agro-forestry modcls all over thc country promoting allcy cropping,
woodlots, fruit trees on cropland (inter-cropping fruit trecs with food crops), boundary
planting, windbreaks and fodder banks. From 1990 to 1996, more than 16,000 fanners have
adopted some agro-forestmy techniques covering an area of more than 17,000 hectares,.
(iii) btreugthening the structural base ot ste sector: implenmented by FDPB through the forest
t!-anagement component and, in general, through the strengthening of FD and WD to improve
protection and management of the forestry and wildlife resources. Although the estaolishment
Page 4



of the PPMED within MLF (with assistarice from FAO) was a major step forward, the weakest
component of FRMP has been in implementing the reformn of forestry sector institutions.
Although much of the basic infrastructure for the Forestry and Wildlife Departments has been
implemented, this has had only a limited impact as the reorganisation of the institutions has
barely started and capacity building has not been either completely satisfactory and
sustainable. However, the completion of new accommodation for both the FD and WD has
significantly contributed to improved staff morale. Technical assistance provided to the WO
through the IUCN has been effective in laying the foundation for change - completing
management plans for 10 reserve areas (but with as yet with little action, other than for fire
prevention, in implementing the plans) and preparing proposals for institutional change, futurc
research needs, an assessment of training needs and guidelines for participatory conservation
planning in the reserve buffer zones. Simnilarly, studies undertaken by the ODA team under the
FSDP have developed detailed proposals for the transition of the FD into an autonomous
GThana Forestry Service,
13.  The activities covering forestry education and training and forestry research were corceived as
supporling the other components. In general, they have met their objectives in terms of upgrading
technical skills and in completing civil works programmes for providing new and improved
accomrnodation, as follows:
a)  Adaptive Research; the project has upgraded the FORIG to improve the institution's capacity
to provide guidance for management of natural forest resources, rural and agro-forestry
activities and utilisation of forest products. Main activities were: (i) forest research review and
planning completed in 1991, followed by a review of past research activities ut 12 field
stations and a strategic planning workshop in 1994, and a first stakeholder workshop in 1997
to present and discuss the annual programmc; (ii) implementation of agro-forestry research
programmes in collaboration with RFD and AFU; (iii) building of new research facilities
including laboratories and administration offices and providing transport and supply
equipment. The number of staff increased from 17 at the beginning of the project to 50
rcscarch staff plus 20 technical senior officers.
b)  Training! the project has supported the development of training facilities at SFS and IRNR,
through civil works, equipment provision, technical assistance and scholarships. Broadly,
these are in line with the SAR proposals, although some of the facilities are not fully equipped
and only partial use was made of technical assistance to upgrade courses and to supplement
teaching staff. Additional to the SAR acrivities, the TEDB has developed a fully--equipped
Wood Industries Training Centre at Kumasi and provided short courses to private sector
operatives in the timber processing industry.
IV. Project Design and Implementation
14.  Weakness of the ProjectI The main point made by virtually all the executing agencies was the
overall novelty of the project, particularly for a Ministry with little prior experience in implementing
WB projects. Initially, the project moved very slowly during the first two years due maisly to these
procurements problems, whilst from the third year, the project performance improved. This was
exacerbated by the unclear modalities for project implementation in the SAR, with the exc.cution left
to the individual agencies, rather than establishing an overall project coordination unit at the outset.
This was compounded by the complexity of handling eight special accounts for each of the executing
agencies.
15.  Although computer hardware and software were procured under FRMP, there was a failure to
establish an effective monitoring and evaluation system and this will need to be corrected luring the
next project. The technical assistance failed to achieve any sustainability. The M & E system needed
to be limely and simple - with easily up dateable sumnaries of the project's activities arnd cost
disbursements. The major indicators of project impact (e.g. reductions in logging and processing
waste, delays in royalty payments, etc.) need to also be tracked.
16.  In the case of some agencies (e.g. RFD, TEDB, FORIG and rRNR) there appears to have been
some resistance to make full use of technical assistance (although in some cases, this was because
the TA provided from alternative sources, such as FAO, or there was acceptable local consulTants as
substitutes) and this may have prevented the activities of these agencies from reaching their full
potcatial. However, in some instances the technical advisors were dominant, possibly resulting in a
sense of isolation and lack of Ghanaian ownership by some of the institutions not directly oenefiting
e.g. from activities such as forest managemeni planning.
sage 5



17.  The Rural Forestry Division (RFD), which was created in 1991 was only fully staffed and
operational in May 1992, while the Agro-Forestry Unit (AFIJ) was created in 1989 within the
Deparrnient of Crop Services of the MOA (supported by the FAO Agro-forestry Prograrme from
1989 and 1995 and by FRMIvP from 1991 to 1997). The main implementation weaknesses in Fte
componlent were: (i) limited collaboration between AFU and RED and duplication of responsibilities
(both were promoting fruit trees and wood trees); (ii) lack of flexibility in procedures and of
decentrilisation of project management; (iii) inadequate monitDring and economic evaluation (iv)
unsustainable long-term research activities; and (v) community participation woodlands maniagement
only begun at the end of the project for the savaninah zones.
18.  Tlle main weaklesses in the research comnponent were; (i) lack of research co-ordination and
some overlaps between the various research institutes (Crops Research Institute, FORIG and IRNR});
(ii) the design of the researchers' offices at FORIG, which are too small and inadequately ventilated;
(iii) the reported lack of equipment for FORIG laboratories and field offices (the later having no
clectricity, no water, no equipment and no vehicles); and (iv) the recruitment of only one technical
advisor from the three expected in the SA.R.
19.  Overall, it might be concluded that the project's emphasis was in some cases (e.g. ERNR,
TEDB and FORIG) too much on infrastructure development, rather than on developing technical
skills and solutions appropriate for the development of effective field-level forest management. In
additioni, the project failed to address some cr-tical policy issues, such as the continued existence of
an inefficicnt timber processing industry, with high wastage and consequent low recovcry levels.
20.  Inlementation Delays: were caused by a combination of factors - (i) overall, the project was
over-di-nensioned in terms of project objectives and costs compared to the existing implementation
capacities at the appraisal time, (ii) the original 3taffing plan for the RFD was too ambitious m view
of the Division's low field implementation iapacity, the govenmuent decision to unify extension
activitios and problems of recruiting suitable statff; (iii) delays weire caused by the complexity (i.e. in
terms of the large number of issues and their seeming intractability) of the preconditions for
cffectiveness and conditionality to release the sccond tranche as indicated in the SAR (bccoming a
major issue, generally outside the control of the implementing agencies, perhaps diverting attention
away f-om the project's main impIementation problems); and (iv) IDA's seemingly complex and
often confusing procurement procedures which contributed to the slow disbursement. Greater
initiativc from the implementing agencics to ensure that their staff familiarised themselvvs with the
procedures (e.g. through the use of the training course developed. by GIMPA) would have helped in
preventing this from occurring.
21.  EioTrower's and World Bank PerforrnancI: the major performance factors that a 1ected the
project's implementation were as follows:
a)  Those subject to implementing agency, control: the lack of flexibiliry in the procedures and
cf decentralisation of the project man igetnent (field requests took between three and six
mwonths; in some case, more than six steps were needed to obtain final approval) cre <ted some
celays in logistic support and programrne implementation. The application of the nr'w policy
Li favour of decentralisation should help .o resolve this problem in future pr.ojects.
b)  r.hose subject to GOG control, included: (i) the change from a presidential decree system to
a parliamentary system in 1993 delayed the adoption of various policy changes; (ii) changes in
development policies during the project period such as policies in favour to the priv-disation of
seedlings production, the decentralisation of the instituitions and the unified extension
the SAR oVjectives; (iii) the lack of stability of the main implementing agency and )f the staff
Lultil 1993 ; and (iv) the slow disbursement at the beginnring of the project was linked with
some lack of understanding of the local staff of WB procurement and disbursemeTit rules and
some delays in providing counterpart finds for civil works.
c)  Those subject to WB control: the sup'-rvision mission were generally useful, particularly the
Mid-Term Review, in order to exchange ideas and re-align some of the project actvities in
line with new national development policies, new ideas and project experiences. The main
weaknesses included: (i) the perceivetl lack of assistance in the beginning of the project to
The Lmplementing agency changed th:... times: (i) MLNR from 1989 to January 91; (ii)
Forestry Commission from  February 199l     to August 1991; and (iii) MLNR/hCLF from
Sept&iber 1991 to the end of the project.
Page 6



assist in solving procurement problems; (ii) field supervision mission visits were in general
too short and tended to be insufficiently technical; and (iii) because of the issue of conditions
rclating to the release of the import tranches, the project was seen by somet of the
implementing agencies as concemcd with mattcrs outside their control (and to some extent.
their interest) making it appear as too much a Bank-driven project, which reduced' to some
extent the project's ownership by GOG.
22.  Siisainghility of Activities after the Project; Prior to the project, the situation of thil country
was characterised by poor economic policies, no intemal capacities, inadequate facilitieF, political
insecurity. These circumstances have radically changed during the project period and the basic
conditions are now in place to be able to concentrate a future project on forest management.
23.  Some activities of the project were much too dependent on the provision of technical
assistance, without any progressive process cf national ownership. This is particularly true of the
failure to establish an affective Monitoring and Evaluation Unit.
24.  La relation with its improved capacity, FORIG has been approached by a number ot agencies
to implement research programmes on a demanid-driven basis.
25.  1he project has increased the capacity of iRNR and SFS to train more students. However, with
institutional changes in the sector the issue of job security after the school period for the increased
nurnbet of people trained will need to be addressed.
26.   Agro-forestry has to evolve from an approach using a transfcr of imporred technr iogy, to a
greater uise of a farming systems approach, adapted to local conditions.
27.  In the case of AFU. however, the activities and extension agents have been prcgressively
integramed into the unified extension system and the regional and district agro-forestry officers have
became subject mattcr specialists. In relation with the new Forestry Service (currently being
considered) the functions of RFD and the regional and district rural forestry officers wii disappear.
Rural f1restry activities will be implemented through the unified agricultural extension system and
the pro iosed Savannah Resource Management Centre. It is recommended that rural forestry officers
trained by thc project will be used, as a maiter of pnority. as subject matter specialisti in those
prograrames.
28.  1 .essons Learnd- Although the Mid-lermn Review corrected many of the implementation
probleras, particularly with the introduction of 1he PCU, there are still a number of lessons than can
be leanied from the implementation of the Proj ,ct which might impact on the follow-up NRMP:
Ov rail Project Design and Implementation:
Uybrid projects with quick disbursememn components may cause implernentation problems
because of the lack of conumnitment and interest from all the parties concerned. -herefore,
preconditions to project implementation should ideally be avoided and only bc inch'.ded where
they can be directly addressed and are fully under the project's management F-md legal)
control.
*  Project Coordinating Committee and an effective unit for assisting in procuremett should be
c stablished from the outset.
ILo avoid delays during the implemen.ation, it is necessary to assess the capacities of the
implementing agencies to understandi and satisfy WB procurement procedures during
s.ppraisal. Ifr necessary (i.e. where stafC ef an agency have not been exposed to WB lirocedures
I efore) additional expertise should be provided from the beginning of the project to tcain local
;taff and to organise the project managenent procedures.
Mhe novelty of FRMP required more time to be spent in project design to ensuie that the
3orrower fully-owned the project and bought into the policy and institutional reforms. In
general, more technical design work is needed before launching into the implementation of
new programme. Where there are design uncertainties, a rolling design 'method is
recommended, with a preparatory pilot phase to undertake the detailed preparation.
* Greater transparency has to be encouraged for the Forestry Department (futurz± Service)
through, for example a wider diffusion of the FD financial report and concession allocation
`3idding processes.
Page 7



Agro-forestry:
I he project has successfully introduced improved agro-fDrestry techniques on faim holdings
through on-farm and-on station demonstrations. A more participatory approach tc identify
inproved techniques and models adapted to the traditional farming systems and to the priority
needs of farners and of the market is required to facilitate adoptions of agro-forestry
techniques.
'Ihe privatisation of nurseries needs a national policy on seedling production and distribution
to standardise the approaches. It is intpossible to have some programmes which provide
seedlings free-of-charge to the farmers and other development programme which promote the
sale seedlings in the same area.
- FvMP focused its extension programme on seedling production and on-farm plantations, but
any furare programme should widen any extension programme to include training in woodlot
management. For charcoal production, the introduction of improved kilns at farm or village
level has to be associated to the management   gramme (possibly to double rfe present
rccovery rates).
* The creation of demonstration plots owned and managed by the project is not sustainable after
the project period due to the lack of funds taj cover maintenance costs. Only on-farm
demonstrations/trials, maintained by farmers, and ,adaptedl to the traditional farming systems,
ecological conditions and social context, should be'promoted in the future.
Res march and Training:
* 'ihe financial and implementation sust?inability of long-armn research activities needs to. be
fuily awalysed before undertaking any research programme under a project.
x *   lthough in its design the SAR fullv recogniseji the need to coordinate the taining and
research needs of the sector, this only really happened in an ad hoc manner. Research,
particularly in foresty needs a long-term persppctive, which may be in conflict with the
n1otion of the demand-led provision of a service by tthc research body.
* New curricula (e.g. for Sunyani Forestry School and Mole Wildlife School) and training needs
assessment (e.g. for the WD), which have recently been prepared, need to be reviewed in the
context of the whole sector - both to prevent overlap and tci ensure a consistent approach to the
sector's future needs (i.e. greater emphasis on private sector participation in plantation
development and wildlife management, collaborative plaining, agro-forestry basi.d around a
farming systems approach, etc.).
* gro-forestry training courses at SFS and £RNR were. in general, too oriented to forestry
t.chniques Revision of these curricula courses is needed to promote a farming system
s'pproach to agro-forestry. rJIore emphasis also needs to be placed in project design on an
intensive use of media and secondarY school teacher training should be integrated into any
t ural awareness programmes.
Pior any new scholarship programme, it is important to foresee and guarantee the availability
of the full budget before candidates begin a course.
Civil Works
- Although the overall quality of civil works is satisfactory, given the relatively high unit costs,
the quality of works at the remoter locations is below an acceptable standard- and both
construction and design errors are apparent (e.g. RFI), WD and FORIG) 1 hJs would
particularly seem to apply in the period when AESC was involved with design.
Qualification requirements in the Conditions of Contract have not fully encuLired that
professional contactors were always employed and mechanisms for ensuring reliable pre-
4ualification procedures arm required.
CDelays in accepting bids (or submitting tender reviews) within the 90 day validity perod may
lave led to unnecessary contact price i_>.-reases, which had to be adjusted using a cost of living
.ndex. Some of the contracts over-ran the contract periods (up to 400 per cent at Sun yani).
Page 8



- Lack of flexibility in applying Bank procurement rules (e.g. use the "lowest evaluated bid"
criteria) and the local practice to advance substantial mobilisation payments (up to 20 per cent
of the contract sum) may have been buirdensome in the context of an economy with a high
level of inflation. Penalty clauses have little impact in this case, particularly when the rate of
liquidated damages are very low (e.g. 500 Cedi per day)
- It is also important for the sustainability of investments to ensure that there is a full budget
avzailable for civil works, including equipment and basic service connection, before authorising
the building process.
* Although not part of FRMP's objectives, a major opportunity was lost for using the civil
works programme as demonstration projects for the application of appropriate and innovative
timber technology and for the use of lesser-known timber species (with the exception of
furniture procurement at IRNR). At the remoter locations (e.g. at Mole National Park) little
use was made packaging the works into smaller contacts for local execution, ccnsequently
with no technology transfer and direct financial benefits to thc local economy.
Bcforc vcnturing into any further major construction works the experience of FRIP need to
be thoroughly evaluated (possibly through the Project's Coordinating Conmmittee) and an
effective and appropriate construction design. management and supervision system put in
place right from the outset.
V. Follow-up Programme
29.  The mission will prepare the provisional version of the ICR report, including statistical
anexes, and will transmit it to GOG for comments by mid-December 1997.
30.  GOG will transmit its own Completion Report by mid-December 1997 to the WB with a short
covering letter indicating how the Govemment believes the lessons leamed from the FRMP will be
used for the design of the NRMP. This report will be integrated by the WB within thc offic'al ICR.
31.  Once the WB receives the GOG comments on the provisional ICR the WB will finalise it and
will fulfill all formalities for official submission of the document to the Bank's Operations
Evaluation Department.
Accra, 14 November 1997
Page 9






JAN02 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   s    ............   . -. -.   .   ..  ..  . .... .
-      ---       -- -  --     -  ---DRAFT--------- ---
- . . . - ...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                        .   .   .   . . . .  -.. . . ...............   .
MINISTRY OF LANDS AND FORESTRY.'
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                . . . .   . .... . . .   . . .   . .  . ..   ...        .. ......
~~~~~.       ..  ..   ....    -....              .  ..   -. ....  ...  ...   .  .. ......... .......-.
ACCRA - GHANA
..    .   .   ..   ...   .   .   .   .   -   .   ...~..   ...   .... - .   .    .   .  ....    . . . . . .
~~~~.      .   .   .   . .   -.. .   -.. . . -
FOREST']RESOURCE''
MANAGEMENT PROJECT-
(CR. I976-GH)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION
REPORT






EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Introduction
The Forest Resource Management Project was a policy reform, management
strengthening and institution building effort aimed at: (a) balancing industrial
forestry production and export earning in accordance with sustained yield; (b)
promoting forest conservation and agro-forestry; and (c) strengthening the sector
institutions, to enable them carry out the necessary policy reforms, to increase
revenue generation and improve protection and production of forest and wildlife
resources. These were to be achieved through improved management of the high
forest and policy changes in forest fees and concession allocation procedure;
development and implementation of a rural forestry programme with special
emphasis on savanna zones; and the strengthening of forestry education and
research.
Project Description
The project comprised six components: (i) Policy Reforms which concentrated on
chanoes in forest revenue and concession allocation policy and rationalisation of the
timber trade policy; (ii) Forest Management which included forest inventory inside
and outside the reserves, preparation of harvesting schedules and rehabilitation of
existing forest plantations; (iii) Rural Forestry Development Programme which
involved the Crop Services Department of Ministry of Food and Agriculture
(MOFA) and FD in carrying out planting and protection of trees in the forest and
savanna zones through the rural population, seedling production, intensification of
extension services and demonstration of agroforestry packages; (iv) Strengthening of
Forest Institutions at the MLF, FD, WD, TEDB and FPIB involving provision of
technical assistance and training to reactivate these institutions; (v) Forestry
Education and Training by building up the capacities and capabilities of the main
forestry education and training institutions at IRNR and SFS; and (vi) Adaptive
Research which included the rehabilitation of the Forestry Research Institute of
Ghana (FORIG) to provide guidance for management of the natural forest resource,
forestry for rural development, mainly agroforestry, and utilisation of forest
production.
Total project cost was US$ 64.6 million. It was co-financed by an IDA Credit of
US$ 39.4 million, DANIDA (Denmark) grant of US$ 8.3 million, an ODA (UK)
grant of US$ 7.1 million, and a Government of Ghana contribution of US$ 9.8
million equivalent. The project became effective on November 30, 1989 and was to
end on June 30 1995. However, it ended on June 30, 1997 after it had been extended
for a further 2 years.
The main objective of the project was to focus on policy programmes through: (i)
managing industrial forestry production and export earnings in accordance with
sustained yield policy; (ii) promoting conservation and tree planting on farms to
counteract fuel shortage and ecological deterioration; (iii) and strengthening the
structural base of the sector and its institutions to enable them  carry out the
necessary policy reforms, increase revenue generation, improve protection and
management of the forest and wildlife resources, and lay the foundations for
i



developing a methodology to quantify environmental ancl ecological benefits. These
were to be achieved through (a) provision of technical assistance in institutional
building and improved management of the high forest, especially with regards to the
very high incidence of logging waste; (b) development and implementation of a rural
forestry programme with special emphasis on priority areas in the savanna zones in
the Upper East, Upper West, Northern, Greater Accra, Eastern and Volta Regions;
(c) the implementation and reactivation of forestry educalion and research.
Implementation Results
The project achieved most of its physical objectives. A number of key policy
reforms were implemented in the areas of logging concessions, forest revenue policy
and administration. The management capacity within the Ministry of Lands and
Forestry was strengthened, leading to improvements in forest sector regulations.
The project improved timber royalty collection and disbursement to local traditional
authorities. It also promoted community involvement in the management of the
forest resources and improved community participation in forest and wildlife
conservation.
In addition, it has improved the capacity of the Wildlife Department for Protected
Area (P.A) management and facilitated development of ten PA management plans.
This has enhanced effective management of key protected areas and maintained
reserves of biological diversity, while improving the quality of training at IRNR and
SFS. The number of trained staff available to work in the natural resource sector has
also increased. It also strengthened the research capacity of FORIG to determine
priorities and implement research programmes relevant to the country's forestry
research needs.
However, it failed to address the complex problems of WD. Inspite the support
received under the project, the WD remains a weak in terms of revenue base and it
cannot support its staff as in the case of FD. Technical Assistance in Monitoring and
Evaluation systems was not adequate in establishing an effective and sustainable
system.
Project Sustainability and future Operations
It is likely that achievements gained under the project would be sustained because of
government's commitment to press for further reforms in the sector. The project's
sustainability will also depend on the macro-economic policies of the Government.
The policy environment is not likely to be any differernt from the present as the
Government is positively committed to the on-going economic reforms. Policy
reforms introduced under the project were directed towards the creation of long-term
conditions under which the dwindling forest resource could be efficiently and
equitably managed and utilised to satisfy, in appropriate ways and on sustainable
basis, the present and future needs of the country. The main reforms, such as
transfer of responsibility for royalty fees to the Forestry l)epartment; the deposit of
collected fees in the Forestry Fund; the introduction of a 40-year felling cycle and
the retention of 50% of harvestable trees above felling limit, can all be sustained
after the project.
. .



The Working Plan System will enable FD to better investigate methods of managing
and controlling yield and provide effective supervision for stock mapping. The
inventories carried out within and outside the reserves can be reviewed from time to
time to update calculations of AAC for the country.
The AFU has successfully privatised seedling production, and the rural forestry
officers trained by the project will be used as subject matter specialists in the
proposed Savanna Resource Management Centre of the NRIP.
The project has considerably strengthened IRNR and SFS. It has improved the
quality and relevance of the training at these institutions to manage and protect the
country's forest and wildlife resources and has increased the number of trained staff
available to work in the natural resource sector.
The Government remains strongly committed to the preservation of the country's
forest and wildlife resources and environmental biodiversity.  In the future, the
succeeding project, the Natural Resource Management Project (NRMP), will
consolidate achievements and push for further reforms in the sector, while
addressing some of the shortcomings of FRMP.  The new project will aim at
sustainably increasing the supply of forest products through interventions to:
(a) Support community-based high forest, savanna woodland, and wildlife resource
manacgement;
(b) Stimulate private investment in reforestation of degraded forest reserves;
(c) Increase efficiency of the wood processing and milling industry; and,
(d) Support improved management and monitoring of forest biodiversity through the
establishment of special biological protection areas within the existing system of
forest reserves that explicitly incorporated biodiversity conservation as an
integral management objective.
The new project will re-align and strengthen WD's capacity to enhance the
economic and social sustainability of wildlife management programmes and foster
closer collaboration between WD and rural communities.
Lessons Learned
The major lessons learned are that:
* With future projects, all the personnel needed for the project should be at post
before the project starts.
* There is the need for improved planning and scheduling of activities, including
procurement and training, in future projects in order to avoid a situation whereby
the logistics needed for the implementation of a project arrives long after the star
of the project.
liI



*  In future, project implementers should be given fiee hands to award small
contracts by simpler means.
* It would be advisable to put inflatton clauses in all civil works contracts in future
project.
* There is need for the Bank to show some sort of flexibility in certain conditions,
taking into consideration the political situation in the cDuntry.
* Civil Servants who work under future project should be given some sort of
incentives.
* The Bank Resident Mission should continue to handle local procurement and all
communications concerning procurement.
* For effective collaboration, there is the need for orienuiation of technical officers
involved in future projects.
iv



MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS                       2 ASIATISK PLADS
COPENHAGEN                               DK-1448 COPENHAGEN K
Telephone 45 33 92 00 00
Telefax 45 31 54 05 33
Telex 31292 etr dk
~LEFAX CQMMUN1IC~ATION1                            Cables etrangeres
Date: 11. februar 1998              File: 104.Ghana.9
From: Marianne Peters               To : The World Bank Group
S.8                                att. Gotz Schreiber
West Africa Agriculture
go a ^ Telefax number: (202 ) 473 - 822 9
Umfax number:              IZ)7      ) Deskby: 11.02.98, kl. 13:'0
Headi'i, (Ent6te): Danida Comments: Ghana Forestry Resources Management
Project.
Eliclosure: 1
Dated:    11. February 1998
Total number of pages: a including this cover page.
Please request missing pages by fax 45 31540533 or by phone 45 33920577.
Dear Ar. Schreiber,
P:Leasa find enclosed Danida comments, as well as comments 1-rom
Danagro Adviser, on the draft Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Ghana Forest Resources Management Project. Wn hope
the -rimments will be in time for you to incorporate them ini the
f ina'. veport.
Yours 3incerely,
Marianne Peters



Comments to Implementation Completion Report Ghana Forest Ressource Management
Project
It is with a special interest that I read the above report since I was involved in formulating the
programme as missionleader for the 1985 WB lead forestry sector review.
Please find below some comments:
Evaluation summary, Introduction. It is here said that that the programme was born out of the
FAQ, Tropical Forestry Action Plan.
This is not fully correct. The project was rather a ;~atural follow- on from the IDA Expcort
Rehabilitation Project and the Banks normal pipeline. FAQ participated in the mission and there
was thus a link to TFAP but FAO did not play a lettding role nor took the initiative to the sector
review. :Jater project formulation was by the FAOf i(B Cooperative programmne.
It would be useful to mention the cofinancing dono.s in the Project Implementation Assesment, p.2
under point 3, before the last paragraph ( e.i after mentioning the announcement of effectiveness of
the credit) . This would follow naturally after mentioning earlier which donors had participated in
the sector -eview. Danida should be mentioned here.
Somewhere it should also be mentioned that Danida finacing was earmarked for the rural
afforestation component.
On page 8, it should be mentioned that Danida participated in most project reviews, inc 1. mid-termn
review..
An impo-tant point which possibly should be higlitighted more, was the reluctance of tb . Ghaneans
to accept the technical assistance posts which had i .,gn foreseen in the Staff Appraisal R eport. This
may cor.- ribute to the difficulties of getting the the coordination unit (PPMED) in the M .nistry to
play the role which was foreseen.
RE. PL!ragragh 8 p. 2 about Forestry Depts. Planning Branch. It is here said that the capt:bility to
improve forest management was obtained. Was the capability actually used? My impression is
that forest management plans were not sufficiently linked to consesions as the entry point for
management plans was forest reserves rather the concessions.
Enclosed are also the comments from an external consultant to Damida Dr. Ole Zethner with which I
gennerally agree.
Henrik Hvidberg-sen
TSA.1, 10/2 1998



04,02 98 13:50 FAX +45 43434049      DANAGRO ADVISER                      @oo
Danagro Adviser ais
Agricuftural ConsuPtants and Planners
Member of the Agricultural Cov.%nctl of Denmark               Carl Bra
CO1Q~MTS TO IX2LM9=ATXON COMPLETIONq REPORT gEAIA FORSEST
RESUCE  1AGEMNTPOJET
Here are a few general and Bpecific comments, which I can make
based on the reading of the WS evaluation report.  Personally, I
dc not know the project in Ghana, but have reviewed the WB
financed  Land and Water Max.agement Project, during which  I
learned about the (forrmer) Agroforestry Unit under the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture, which is now merged with the Land and
Wrter Management UJnit, to the "Agroforestry and Land/Water
M.nagement Division" under the Crop Services Departmenit of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture. I am a bir surprised t-hat this
merger is not reported in the report. Has the merger :ot taken
.* i e oftic_all.v yet ?
T)-ie Evaluat ion Mission consisted of two persons only, a forester
a:-  an econo-rrist/institutions specialist. it is surprising for me
tk.h t a final evaluation of a USD 70 million project does not
comprise more specialists. I find that the  first objecti-ve
(O.anagement industrial forestry production and export earnings in
accordance with sustained yield policy) could have deserved more
attention by the Evaluation Mission. In particular, one should
have treated the important i ssue of the new felling system and
rcyalty collection system mor- detailed.
Generally,  the  Evaluation  DMissionI  finds  that  "the  Forest
Resources Management Project. has had a satisfactory outcome
because  it eucceeded in upgrading sector skills and morals.
improving forest management and planning procedures, introducing
sustainable agroforestry programmes, and encouraging private-
rector oriented reforms". "Essential conditions are no^ in place
for sustainable growth and a possible future project car, focus on
implementing  sectoral  change  and  on  establishing  effective
irtegrated collaborative systemTs of forest systems of forest
management"  (Summary of Findings and  Future  Operations  Key
Lc.ssons Learned, Evaluation Summary p.4) .
The Evaluation Mission foresees that the accompliehments of the
past project Cover eight years) will not be sustainable unless
the 'orestry sector is supported by a new project. It will, in my
huimble view, be necessary foz any new donor to make a much rnore
detailed assessment of where to place its support, thar has been
done by the Evaluation Mission.



P4/02 :98 13:51 FPAX +45 43434049    DANAGRO ADVISER                      l Q003
Eva luation Summary
Project Obj ectives
4. The last sentence, concerning the total of USD 70.77 unillion)
ur.de.r point 14 (p.3 bottom and p.4 top) should have been added
here instead.
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTAT IMN SESN=
Statement and Evaluat ion of Objectives
Introduc tion
2.   W'hy are there no figures on annual out-turn and exports
receipts since 1985 ?  Figures for 1995 might have shown whether
the recovery of royalties hed' increasedi as a result of the
prsoject - This could perhaps make a good project impact indicator?
6.   it is mentioned that Dani&a has provided a grant funding Df
USD 8.3 million, but not whether the Danida money was granted to
any specifLic component of the -rroject (which I think they were:
S--T t?nna forestry) ?'
Actho.evement of Project Objectlives
Th;.s chapter is not well structured, and therefore not easily
comprehended by the reader. The three maLn objectives should be
used af headings in  the report, and the six main components
placed under their respective objectives.
I. Managing industrial forestry production and expert earnings
in accordance with sustained yield policy.
IT. Promotinq conservation and tree planting on farms to
counteract fuelwood shortage and ecological deterioration.
II .Strengthening the structural base of the sector and, its
institutions to enable them to carry out the necessary
reforms, increase revenue generation, improve protection and
managment o' the forest and wildlife resources, and lay the
foundations for devel'oping a methodc'logy to quantify
environmental and ecological benefit.a.
13 and 14.   it is a good achievement that the focus was changed
from centralized nurseries to individual and group nurveries.
However, the total number of seedlings turned out ro be fairly
emall although it is reported to have reached the target (which
was small from the beginning) considering the amoult of money
Used for tree planting. The report seems generally to be too much
occupied by whether physical targets have been meet or not. In
the case of tree seedlings produced one should perhaps discuss
why farmers have not produced more seedlings (they may feel that
they have enough trees to fulfill their- needs) and whether all
the produced seedlings have been planted and how many trees have
survived.



04/02 '93. 13:51 FAX -45 43434049   DANAGRO ADVISER                     O004
17.   The information that ODA I , developed detailed prc'posals
for the trausition of the FD iia.ti an autonomUs, Chana Fc,rest.y
Sez-vice should be further elabozated and discussed. What is the
opinion of the Evaluation Missicr. to such transition ? Thiq igsue
is not mentioned under "Summaary of Findings and Future: Key
Lessons Learned" (Evaluation SRimmary, p.4), but ought to be
because earnings from forest p..cduces seem to'be very ir=vortant
fo- CtLana.
24.    The work of a M & E system seems so important that one
shou"d not hesitate to provide future support. Strangely enough
this is not mentioned in the "Summary of Findings and Future
Operations Key Lessons Learned" (Evaluation Sumtary, p.4)-
Project Sustainability
32.   The statement "further exernal assistance will be needed"t
seems not to have been enough c.j-aborated. A short description of
whsi- is written under Future Operations (p.13) should be :.ncluded
hei-e.
The sustainability of agroforestry activities depends on how the
agroforestry is integrated withl Land and Water Management in the
n-rJy created Agroforestry anea Land/Water Nanagemeut ::11vis.oi
ui.c2-4.r- Crop Services Department, on the efforts to work :-.ogether
wit.h the unified extension system and on the inputs by the
ref narch institutions. It is, however, an advantage that
agroforestry now is regarded as a part of agriculture. But will
the Rural Forestry Division (RFD) within the Forestry Department
still be responsible for woodlot creation at village an farm
levels ? If so, one has the define the responsibilities of RFD
and the Agroforestry and Land/Water Management Division to see
that they support rather than overlap each other.
Fu ture Operation.
4 6I Major indicators of project impacts should include also
royalty collections.
, February 1998
Ole Zethner
Danagro Adviser a/s



*30/01/98     17:47    E. A. F. D.   O.D. A.  20 i32 473 8229                     NO. 998    D01
Department for
Inltemational Development            4
94 Victoria Stmt, LonAion SYW1E SJL
Our Ret:                                                Dir3C Line: 0171-917 DAM
Your Ref:                                               Dirmrt Fax. 0171-917 0491
GTN:         3535 (118 
E-MAail: j-aston@Mdf1d.gf Ic(. jov.uk
30 January 1998
Gotz Schreiber
F'rlncipal Economist             I To: Gotz 5c6gh1.i              ntcsdyfaxr-otet
West Africa Agriculture            ctpa:            -     Fax No: 7lza 4-23 9 ZZ-I
From:   LO *IcA it
Crmpaipy:   D   tL >  T±  N0: I0 1 t 1l 0 4
No of pages: IZ. D.  34 os           No.229004
t. hark you for giviig us the opportunity to comment on the draft
. mplementation Completion Repc. it for the Ghana Forest Resources
:'anagement Project, which OD.A,,T07 supported with parallel financiuyg
pour Forest Inventory and Managt -eat Project). Unfortunately Graham
- 'haplin is in Cameroon this week, but John Hudson and I have had a luok at
Lbe papers.
2. From our involvement and knowledge of the sector, we are largely in
agreement with the assessment in the draft ICR. We completed a Projet.t
Completion Report, an internal document, of the Forest Inventory and
;'ranagement Project last year and I thought you might be interested ta, :
' ur conclusions so attach it fur iniormation. The coxiclusion was that ta
Immediate objectives were broadky achieved. Clearly the broader lesson for
mu all is the recognition of the need to address critical policy issues and
iastitutional issues, and this fed i .v the design of our Forest Sector
I evelopment Project to help esta' i   a Forest Service and into the on-ging
preparations of the overarcLing X- uoral Resource Management Project.
I'erhaps these key lessons from FRIVP and the link to NRMP could be made
iiuore explicit in the ICR to infortn ?; wider audience.
3. You might wish to put more emphasis on the importawce of promoting
franker discussions with and amongst Ghanaians decision makers and L;3p
stakeholders on the diMiult policy issues, in order to help them take some
of the hard decisions needed.
4. 1t might also be worth setting oum  why DANIDA withdrew from the project,
possibly in the general conteAt of haw well other donor collaboration
itarked. The relative merits of c! linancing (with DANIDA) aud paralUe
linancing (with DFII) might also li- usefully analysel.
Swrichbcard 0171-917 7000 T.:-x ;OMnI- FaX 0171-917 0019



30/01'98     17:47    E. R. F. D.  O.D.R. - 202 473 8229                     NO.998   D02
5. A further observation is that it might be useful to acknowledge the
development of thinking over the project duration on institutional
development. Our understanding is that inputs to institutional
development/ capacity building were initially interpreted as civil works/
hardware and formal staff traini, g, and it was only later that it was
recognised that inputs were need ,. v hich promoted more fundamental
change in the Forest Department
6. We hope that you find these comments constructive.         J
7. As you probably know, Ministers have recently approved an extension to
DFEDs support to the Ministry of Lands and Forests (our Forest Sector
Development Project). We have passed a copy to Peter Harrold; but do get
in touch if you would like us to send you a copy direct to you. We look
forward to continuing to work with you in forestry, under the umbreLla of
the NRMP. If you are passing through London and have some time, it
would be good to see you to discuss natural resources/foresty in Ghana
Joanne Alston
West and North Africa Department
Ii-4L  O-We-,-J\-  +b Wv.  4            z lr s  lCc
\  a\zb+    I    >c    C   . ~~L4t'C  03,   e 1 0  



:w/01/98      17:48      E. A. F. D.   O.D.R. 4 202 473 8229                             NO. 998   D?03
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOKr
(If Logical Framwrk is attached to the PCR, quREtions marked '(*J'nae not be comp.td)
A: BASIC DATA
COUNTRY:,GHANA              SECtOR: FoREsTR DEwr  Ms COOL, 025 52404
PROJECTDROGRAMMTE TLE: FORESr INJVO ANO MANAGENT P4)UEC'T
BRIE DESCRIPTIN: TO UROW TME UAKA5ENT AND CO#OVATION a ' HAEST RESOURC ANDUtFAT5
GHANA, TO SUrENGIIEN ThE CAPACtV OF THE FORESTR SECTOR 1NWffnOW  TO OENTEO CAM -OAT
APPROACHES TO FOREST MAMA¶NT TO SECURE UENtdS FeR LOCAL CUMMTIES.SART OF A SZOwa0U
|WORLD BAK FOREST REsouRcEs MANAGEmuffT p,Ewcr.TDoNons:IOA, DFIID AND DANIDAJ
LEVEL APPROVED BY: UNDER SECRETrARY IDATE APPROVED., Aumar  1988
B:   OUTPUTS OF IMPLEMENTATION PHASE
:a;  INITIAL():
1. Completed forest inventory o ail forest resources in the high forest zone (HFZ)
2. Inventory data used to improve forest management proctioss in HFZ forest
reserves by strengthening the FD's Planning Branct at Kumasi
3. Forest covered areas outside forest reserves identified and local people involved
in participatory forest management
4. Timber plantations mapped and permanent samplii plots established
5. Farest management in the Regional Forest Offices in the tropical moist fofest zone
strengthened
Z:   AMENDMENTS; Extension Pha a Outputs
1. Information for forest policy development provided and awareness of sustainable
forest management and protection strategies increased
2. Forest management systems for reserves reviewed, developed and tested
3. Strategy for management oi L if-reserve resource developed and tested
4. Planring Branch capacity to dtvelop and institute sustainable forest management
and protection systems strengthened
5. District forest office capability to implement sustainable forest management and
conservation procedures strengthened
3z   IF OUTPUTS HAVE BEEN AMENDED GIVE REASONS WHY:
The first phase of this project was generally successful in providing the awential
information base, training, plans and guidelines to improve forest management
Policies were formulated to pru /ide for sustainable nmanagement and conservaton
of forests but there was still a large gap between policr objectives and the conditions
for effective implementation. Phase I exposed areas of financial and institutional
weakness in the Ghana Forestry ;epartrnent (FD). A project extension was therefore
approved to review options for bh reform and reorginisation of the FD, to secure
acceptance of a preferred opicn and prepare proposals and a strategy for the
reorgenisation.
Prited: 29 Sepember 1995                                       GAPM I A1AI
PCR V.,. 29 Sagmaeber 1.995



30/01'98      17:48     E. R. F. D.   O.D.P.   202 473 8229                            NO.998   l?04
Project Completion Report
4:   ACHIEVEMENT:
I _R
Outputs completely realised
Outputs largely realised                    X
Outputs partally realised            X
Very limited realisation of outputs
Outputs completely unrealised - proact
abandoned
EXPLAIN  NLD WMMENT:
PHASE 1 OUTPUTS;
i. Informati-on
The inventory of forest reserves was successfully completed and the survey
of non-timber products produced a detailed picture of tiheir use and
importance. The Plantation Survey began well but there were many technical
problems over the remote sensing which hindered progress with the plantation
survey and with the mapping and inventory of areas of the forest outside the
gazetted reserves and hence related areas of participatory forest managernent.
ii.Planinina
At a national level a 40 year felling cycle was introduced together with other
logging controls. Databases for the strategic planning of production linked to
conservation objectives were developed. Progress in the development and
implementation of workirg plans for specific forest management units was.
and remains, slow.
iii. Forest Manamerment
Advances were made in the adoption of the new felling cycle, yield regulation,
logging rules and their implementation although the widespread adoption of
the improved practices was dependent on action outside the project.
iv C-ommunity participation
This component made limited progress during Phase 1
v Conservation of Genetic Resources/Biodiversitv
The successful completion of this output put Ghana at the forefront of
international action to develop strategies for the efficient combination of
conservation with sustainable economic use of the forest.
vi Economic performance
Attempts to introduce ei . -f ced fees and royalties and improved concession
arrangements were genierally well conceived and formulated but
implementation was weak. Although this was a central concern of the FRMP
rather than PIMP it is essential to ths establishment of sustainablo forest
management.
PHASE 2 OUTPUTS;
Activities were completed with the exception of the Forest Department
Institutional Review. Substantial progress was made by the Department
towards defining the structure and functions of the proposed forest service,
however, work on financing systems and a manpower plan and on a strategy
for the implementation of reforms, while providing useful inforrnation, did not
become internalized by t*8 FD and therefore was not fully developed.
Printed: 29 September 1995                                     GAP M1  1ae I
PCR Ver. 29 Sptepin4er 1995



30:01'98     17:49      E. A. F. D.   O.D. A. -. 202 473 8229                        NO. g98     W5
Project Compition Report
C:   FINANCIAL PROFILE
I:  INITIALLY APPROVED ODA TOTAL COMMITMENT Vn L'OOOs): £3.70
2:   TOTAL ODA COMMITMENT AFTER ANY SUBSEQUENT
AMENDMENTS (in L'000s):          £4.98
3:   EXPENDITURE PROFILE (by finandal year in £'000s):
F/Y.           PraS92 92/3  93(4  94/5  s6/6  96197  FIY 7  F/Y 8  rotal
Initial       3,092   246   437   814   463                        4,980
Commitment,
Koec                  _ _
Actual        1,828   532   640   772   856   179        Z         4,807
bxdlture:.
4:   WHEN  COMMITMENT CHANGES WERE SOUGHT, WERE THEY PI4OPERLY
JUSTIFIED AND EXPLAINEO? fener Yes orNoJ: YES
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
An 18 month extension to the project was approved in June 1994 and £1 .28 millon
was allocated for this.
Li:   ACTUAL EXPENDITURE AS % Of INITIALLY APPROVED COMMITMENT: 135%
6.   ACTUAL EXPENDITURE AS % OF COMMITMENT AFT'ER AMENDMENTS: 9f.5%
_. .... .. ...._. .. _. . .. .... _._ .  ... ... _....... .....__  ........__ 
Prltud: 29 September 1995                                    GAP M I Asue
PCR V.r. 29 September 1995



U0/01/953    17:49      E. A.F.D.   O.D.A. - 2Z2 473 9229                              NO.998    D09
PrqItd I. 7'umpletion Report
D:   MONITORING AND PHYSICAL PiZGRESS REPORT
1:   PROPOSED MONITORING              ACTUAL MONITORING
Monitoring Date  By Whom         Monitoring Date  By Whom
6 monthly visits  DFID FPM'
6 monthly visits     SDFM+       Dec 89           I Napier^
Quarterly &     TCO Team ldr   Jun 90             I Napier'
Annual prog rpts.                Aug 90           N Tranter#
Oct 90          I Napier-
May 91          1 Napier'
Oct 81          I Napier^
Jan 92          Mid Trm Review
Feb 92          N Tranter#
Jul 92                J Hudson'
Jun 93          J Hudson/M Flir t
R Kemnp/
Oct 93          J Hudson^
Jun 94          C Sargent^
Oct 94          J Hudson^
May 94          G Chaplin'
WNAD Forestry Projects Manager OFID  I Forestry Consultant  # Inforrnaton
Technology Adviser + Social Development Field Manager
WAS MONITORING ADEQUATE?: YES
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
Quarterly reports were submitted by the TCO Team Leader. After the July 1994
quarter these reported against the project framework so progressto achieving targets
was easier to monitor.
FIMP was part of a country wide forestry sector project (the Forest Resourcees
Management project) also supported by the World Bank and DANIDA.There was
initially some lack of coordination between DFID and the World Bank. However.this
was resolved and World Bank slipervision mission reports were made available to
DFID.
Prlined: 29 September 1995                                    GAP M 1 Anex I
PCR Ver. 29 Septenber 1995



:30/01/98      17: 50      E. A. F. D.   O.D.R. - 202 473 8229                                  NO.998      D07
tje    Compledon Report
2:   IN ORDER TO ACHIEVE THE OUTPUTS OF THE INPLEMENTATION PHASE WERE
ACTIVITIES/INPUTS:
(enter a rating between I and 6; 1 - very good, 5 = very poor4i
To achleve inihilly Intended outputs  To achiev revised outputs (if
(up to the time of any change)  .pplicable, subsequent to any
hnge) .
ODA          Recipient        ODA           Recipient
Activities/lnputs    Govmunment   ActivitieWinputs    Govemment
Activi6sanputs                Act6itiolnputa
(a)  Approprate?             2              3              2               2
(b)  Sufficient?             1              4              1
Ic)  Timelv?                 2              2              3               3
td)  Well-coordinated?       2              7              2               2
(e)  Effeleoty procured      3              3              3               3
and delivered?
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
Initial Outputs:
1. Recurrent funding from the GoG was irregular and insufficient
2. Performance in the Support Units (Survey and Mapping and Data Processing) was
generally poor with a considerable anount of private work being carried out, which had
a negative effect on productivity and consumables. Overstaffing of typists and
computer operators was cited szs s main reason for poor productivity.
3. Crown Agents were the procurement agents. There was a problem over an over-
ordering of mattresses which was only resolved when OFID agreed to pay a 50Ye
cancellation fee to the supplier.
4. Misuse of project transport and damage to project equipment such as tents because
of careless use was an on-going problem which consumed a good deal of the
Project leader's time during Phase 1.
Prfited: 29 Septmber 1995                                            GAP M    Anex I
L'CR Ver. ZS September 1995



30/01/98     17:50      E. R. F. D.   O. D. A. - 2 ;2 473 8229                        NO. 999    D08
Project Completion Report
Revised Outputs:
CutCut I
Activities were completed with the exception of the Forestry Department
Institutional Review. Substantial progress was made by the FD towards defining the
structure and functions of the proposed forest service, however, work on financing
systems and a manpower plan and on a strategy for the implementation of reforms,
while providing useful information, did niot become internalized by the FD amid therefore
did not develop.
Outouts 2 & 5
These were largely realibed.
Outouts 3 & 4
These were all realised.
3:   INITIALLY PLANNED PHYSICAL COMPLETION DATE: May 1994
4:   ACTUAL PHYSICAL COMPLETION DATE: November 1995
5    ACTUAL IMPLEMENTATION TIME AS % OF INITIALLY PLANNED IMPLEM8ANTATION
TIME: 127%
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
The project was extended by 1 a months from June 1994 to November 1995 because
the first phase of the FIMP proj,3ct demonstrated that the fundamental reform of the
Forestry Dept was essential n ; the implementation of effective and sustainable
management. The objective or n-e extension was to prepare proposals for the FD
reorganisation. Significant consolidation of Phase I FIMP work was also carried out,
including support to the Planning Branch, in particular the collaborative forest
management and data analysis programmes, which continued to be fully supported and
developed.
Printed: 29 September 199S                                   GAP M 1 Antex 1
PCR Ver. 29 Sepleriber 1995



30'01/9a         17:50        E. R. F. D.    O.D.A. - 202 473 8229                                         NO.998       109
Project Comlepkion Report
E:    CONDITIONS
(Set out each ind;id&a project condiUutv - initial and subsequewt amenmnts - in the table below and 1ot'
each rate whether the condition was:
1 - Whollymet
2 = Largely met
3 = Portbia  met
4   Largely unmet
5 =Not met at all
For ratings I and 2 orny assess to what extent compRiance had on the achirvement of objctives, and for
3-5 only assess to what extent the lack of comDPance had on the achievewent atf olec?iveS.
A = Major Positive Efflect        D = Significant Negartve Effect
B = Significant Positive Effect   E = Mayor Negative Effect
C - Minor/Negligibl Effect
| CONDITIONS                                                           COMPLLANCE       For Rairng:
1,2     3.4,5
Effect   Etfect
(AIMl    (A-E)
Initial:
1B)    Development of a National Forest Policy                            1           A
(b)    Royalties and fees to be increased with regular indexing to cover, FD  3                C
costs of supenrvising the forest operation
(c      : Re-allocation ra concessions within the forr  reserves          2
(d)    Development of terms of Service and salr,ies for forest worken     3                    C
(a)   Provision of counterpart officers, trairLas end some transport      2           B
if)   All equipment purchased under the projeut wll be reaiined by FD for  1 I
sole       use of the project
93)  IHC end DFIO ellowed reasonable access to the project                I           A
Subsequent Amendments:
(a) The Minlatry of Lends and Forestry is in principle supportive of the  1           8
reorganisation of the FD and agrees that this may require formation of an
autonornous Forestry Authority outside the Civil Service.       -
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
The commitment from the Ministry of Lands and Forestry is clearly stated in the Forest Poliky
and Master Plan. Over the project perirl1, the process leading towards reform has been increasingly
internalised by the FD. However, there is a need to ensure that there is full ownership of a single
vision for the future forest service ano that the process of achieving that vision should also be fully
owned. Steps towards these objectives were in hand during 1his period.
Printed: 29 September 1995                                                  GAP M    Ames I
PCR Ver. 29Seplember 1995



303/01/o98     17:51      E.R.F.D.   O.D.A. - 222 473 9229                                     NO.998    110
Project Completion Rcport
F:   ACHIEVEMENT OF PURPOSE, GOAL AND PIMS MARKERS
1.   LIKELY ACHIEVEMENT OF OBLtCTIVES
I  jikely to be convearaly e'achived  4 a only Ikely to bh aehieved to a very lmited etenr
2 = likety to be targfly achieved  5 = unlikely to be realised
3 = Jikely ro be parrially achieved    X =oo early to Judge the extanr of achievenent
Immediate Objectives: Purpose                                                  | ;atng I1-XI
Initial:
1. Sustained yield from forest reserves through a 50 year harvesting plan           3
using a 25 year falling cycle which applies a) allowable cut b) area
control c) minimum girth
2. Increased revenue eamed by GoG local administrators of stool lands               2
and local authorities from fees and rovalties through better supervision
and control of the logging operations
3. Increased revenue earned by GoG from a) export eamings, duties,                  2
levies and b) import duties an machinery and spares for timber frames
4. Improvernent to the level of efficiency in the management of the forest          2
reserve.
5. Conservation of the protection working circles, identification of
reserves of special floristic interest
- identification                        2
- implementation                        3
Subsequent Amendment:
To strengthen the technical and institutional capacity of Planning Branch           2
and Districts/Regions to plan, monitor, protect and develop forest
resources on a sustainable basis and to develop approaches to
collaborative forest management.
Wider Obectives: Goal                                                          I
Irnitial:
1. To support Ghana's long term economic development by strengthening               3
export earnings
2. To provide national timber requirements (and other forest produce eg             3
medicine, cone, gums etc)
3. Ensure environmental stability by maintaining forest cover in the forest         X
zones of Ghana
4. Conservation of genetic resources                                                X
Subsequent Amendment:
To improve forestry sector and local ns.thutional capacity to sustainably         2VX
manage and protect forest resources in the High Forest Zone
PIMS Markers assigned to ODA Priority Objectives                                ____
Printed: 29 September 1995                                          GAP M I Annex I
I'CR Ver. 29 Seplemrber 199)5



30/01/98     17:51      E. R. F. D.   O.D.iA. - 202 473 8229                          NO.998    Dl11
Project Completion Report
Priority Obiectixes:                                           Marker 1.4
Enhancing Productive Capacity                                     4          X
Good Government                                                   4          X
Poverty Reduction                                                 2          x
Women in Development                                              1          X
Environment                                                       4          2
Research                                                          2          2
Sustainable Forest Management                                     4          3
Biodiversity                                                      4          3
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT (even if X.rated:
The objectives in general are de-, ribed in terms of incremental improvement the project and
its extension contributed posltive!y and effectivoly to all the objectives. At the wider level
it is too early to judge.
2.   OVERALL ACHIEVEMENT OF IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVES/PURPOSE
:2
3;   LIST THE CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR SUSTAINABILITYTO BE ACHIEVED:
The establishment of a forest service capable of effective and efficient implementation of
forest policy. This is the purpose of the current GoQ/MLF/DFID project.
4:   DO YOU EXPECT THAT THE PROJECT WILL BE SUSTAINABLE7
(anrw Yes, No or Dontr kno w/: YES
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
The project's original objectives 4vr improved forest management, sustained ybid, enhanced
revenues, conservation of gena. c resources etc are essentially long tarrr and the direct
measurement of achievementS "h' be possible only after these improvements have been put
into practice extensively.This is r --pandent on factors outside the FIMP, e.g. the performance
of the forest industrv and trade i.n support of sustainable managment, the siuccess of FRMP
in achieving its objectives.
Reform of the Forestry Department means not just improved pay and uonditlons but a
revitalised and appropriately staffed service having responsibility for strategic planning and
monitoring of the management of Ghana's forest resources. There must also be an
increasingly responsible end positive role for the privatEt sector in forest management and
conservation. It is important for sustainability that opposition to radical restructuring within
the FO is overcome and that there is an understanding at a political level of the potential
scope of reform.
The allocation and use of lane are sensitive issues in l3hans. The Ministry of Lands and
Forests' agreement to lease landA in forest reserves, while consistent with the GoG's policy
of withdrawal from the productive sector, could well encounter opposition from farmers who
want more land for crops and obect to private companies being given righ::; to plant trees
on land which they themselves ewn' through the stool.
G:   PARTICULAR LESSONS FROM i-iPLEMENTATION PHASE
:   WHAT ARE THE MAIN LESSONS ODA CAN LEARN FRIM THE IMPLEMEEMATION PHASE
OF THIS PROJECT?
(a)   Positive aspects which may be replicable:
Project Monitoring by use of a Plan of Operation based on tht ' project logical
framework was effective - particularly in ensuring the participation anrid commitemnt
of counterpart staff. Extensive use of working group meetings and, seminars proved
Plrinted: 29 September 1995                                  GAP 1 I Annex 1
PCR Ver. 29 September 1995



212/01/98      17:52       E. A. F. D.   O.D.A. i 222 473 8229                                   NO.998      U12
Prijest Completion Report
to be an effective meat s of communicating ideas and obtaining feedback from
counterparts and t
(b)   Negative aspects which may be avoided in future:
Phase t of the project underestimated the length of time that would be tequired to
overcome the significant institutional weaknesses in the Planning Department.
The use of sophisticated equipment e.g. for remote sensing, without adequate local
technical support was ir wvitably destined to create problems and frustrations.
Consultant inputs played n major role in the implementation of the Eixtension Phase.
These were particulan;r effective when closely linked with the activities being
undertaken by the FD and TCOs. They were ineffective when treated as a separate
activity  e.g. the  insu,lainal reform  consultancy  and  the  project planning
consultancy.
(c)   Other/General lessons:
There are unavoidable constraints on achievement when working with an underfunded
counterpart institution with inadequately rewarded counterpart staff.
The TCO Team Manager expressed the view that the OFID's project 3ycle should be
better communicated and more fully used. In particular, the respective roles of
advisers, field managers, SHC and TCOs need to be clearly defined.
.............................. ........................  .......-.........  . . .. ...        .   _......  .... .  __.   . . ... . ...... .... .......................................................____._
H:   EX-POST EVALUATION
IS THIS PROJECT/ PROGRAMM   CONSIDERED PARTICULARLY USEFUL FOR FURTHER
EVALUATION? (enter Yes or No): N;
(if yes, pface an 'x° in box j'sJ which apply)
(a)   Innovative
|b)   Particular relevance to achieving ODA's
priority objectives
lc)   Rapidly Increasing involvement in sector
(d)   Replicable project
(.)   Corntinuing project
(f)   Other (ease spad4/:
EXPLAIN AND COMMENT:
Evaluation of this programme would be relevant once the current project WFSDP) is comphtle.
.... . P.CRt1NALISED hrisYohrtlSaRth LG abam-..ChaPlin 
PCR APPROVED BY; Simon Ray Head of WNAD
DATE: 1 September 1997
Printed. 29 September 1995                                           GAP M1 Aex 1
PCR Ver. 29 Seplember 199.1






IBRD 151 16R3
BURKINA  FASO                                               /
- ~~~~~~.2 j ~~~~~~~G H A N A
S                          - . .    P    UPPER           BoIg'tangq            I                  RAINFALL   AND
J./          UPPER  WEST                     EAST                                                ECOLOGICAL ZONES
REGION                                                          HIGH FOREST ZONE
REGION                                                                              EL    Equotoricl Roin Forest
Trans tion Zone
.  '  '   '  i   3   Moist Semi -deciduous
Nosio                          |              Forest
I       oWa          -            J                                                                     SAVANNAH ZONE
;10,                                                                                     ) !            Guinea Sovannon
(^  |   ~   . g                                           .        X    i Woodland
K )  .- *~~~~~~~~~-'                                                          FTF"T~~~~~~~~~~ Sudan Savannah
L)j :Woodland
Coastal Thicket ond
\ ~~~~~~~N    O R T H E R N                       R E G  I   O N                   .                    :- Grassland
Tamale
0                                               Mangroves
I                                                                                              >            Rainfall (mm)
0Damongo                                                                         Rivers
9.            <                                                                                             .     -  -  Region Boundaries
-. ___ International
COTE                   2                                               )             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Boundaries
6~~~~~~
CO-FE                    j                                                Sologo                   
D'IVOIRE   \   \- o t                                                                              -
*1/                                                    Atebubu                                  ---
BRONG - AHAFO- REGION                                                                 T      TOG O
Sunyan t                                                                             / S  H           I-h
(  | '   Kumosi                                                              TI, I- -  -
t ; ' R E G I O N                      7                     ' A.
\     EASTERN                                      K
6-   ";0REGION                                                                                                                         I
|  A    '#  ES  I E0R N                                                                            ?KetA          NOES
>  t  -    - -  - .      .      ~~~~~C  E N   T R A -L-.  -r-                              MAL                   NIE
REGtCN                            REGIoN -                          R             .            BLRK NA G       r N
r'_wO-__>-   _    $                                                       <& ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COTE  GHAN8C)
-   .   ,                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5°-  rp,  D'IVOIRE,        
-5¢                                   I                            0,   . . ! .  o  1a  20  30  40  50 MILES
a  ___________________                                  \   ~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ccra   I
- x   . Takoradi         O 20   40  60   80 KILOMETERS
FEBRUARY 1987



IBRD 18393R1
30                        20                        10                        00                                                     20
BURKINA FASO
-11,                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~GHANA
GREAT SOIL GROUPS
FOREST ZONE
Forest Ochrosols
mForest Oxysols
\   Forest Ochrosol-Oxysol
intergrodes
Forest Rubriso -Ochrosol
intergrades         l,
100                                                                                                                  Forest Lithosols
v-A Regosols
INTERIOR SAVANNAH ZONE
Savannah Ochrosols
Sovannoii Ochrosols with
some Lithosols and
Brunosols
Grounawater Laterites and
Grou,nd-ater Laterite-
Ochrosol intergrades
Tropical Block Earths     90-
90                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acid Gleisofs
COASTAL SAVANNAH ZONE
COTE  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ <               ILZ Savannah Ochrosols
'>  Salaga'Ž><    ,f~~~~~~  1            Regosolic Groundwater
Laterites
D'IVOIRE                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tropical Block Earths
/  I                 ~~~~~~Sodium Vlesols    8
/4              ~~~~~~Acia Gle sois
rI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~LSovannah Lithosols
RtIO                               4Z" >                                    I    Regosols
~~<  ~ ~~~             0            ---- ~~~~~~Region Boundaries
--$unyan't  ~ ~    ~       ~     ~      '~     ~<                     0International Bounaaries
70,         ASHANTI                                                                ~~~TOGO                      7
RE ~ EGO
)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, <7MLE 
Ii~~~~~~~~~0~4      8 I6EER
60>                                      REGION    0Kaf                                                              60~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b  bW9W
-' ~~~Keta==
CENTRAL ~     ~         ~ ~ ~ F
REGION   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  REGION  ACCRA~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ae t .h oNVi
5000004                                                                                                         OIE
L~~~~~~~~aooi02 06  0KLMTR
Axim   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGUT18



IBRD 1 8469R2
30                        20                          10                         00                          10                           20o
10 BU RKI NA    FASO                                                                                         GHANA                   110
UPPER WEST    - olg'0UPPER EA sr                                    /                     VEGETATION ZONES
J                      g.   - ~~~~~~"Bolgatonga° o  
R  UPPERNOI  Reserved Forest
REGION                   \0
Nasia                         .                        . <   -- -Unreserved Closed Forest
P   X   l  ,r,,iv  ,   Nosia  i             s__   Rain Forest
I 1 0O     t       o               .    e                   ,~       -                           3               _      Ecotone                 100
.   -~                                                            I~~ . ~   '.   /                 Moist Semi-Deciduous Forest:
j7$                                                                   ,>- ~.  .  - 5 Celtis-Triplochiton Association
r            ~~~~NORTHERN                 REGION
\ NORTHERNm' REGION                 --- ~ Antiaris Chlorophoro
8             ,             .     ~~~~~~~~~~~Tamoleb    --\                                          Association
Guinea Savannah Woodland
_90                  i,  ODamongo                                                   -                                   Sudan Savannah Woodland
Thicket and Grassland
* .   --,r    -  - -  . .   -   --  g H             0     Strand and Mangrove
COCTE  \ -                    ,a
D'IVOIRE  -                     a---                                              -  - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Region Boundaries
Internationol Boundaries
,Sv         ~Bamboi                              
-80                    - --------BftONIG-AHAFO                                                                                                   80
i    .                REGION              . 0Atebubu                     '
Sunyanio                     Ejr)
70                                       AS  NTI                                               7-O
27  (5                    TOGO
Kumasi -
REGION    2                                - TERN
60         WES  RN                                                 REI'ON rf1j   1                                --                             6°
%    STE  X                                  < ,:                                  o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Keta
-~>_    ~    - '  CENTRAL                                      -
b  REGION          ( 1        GION                        ACCRA
-5O                   \    /            t  g                                                        0  10 20 30 40  50 MlES
Axim     \    ,      Tokoradi                                                 0   20  40   60  80 KILOMETERS
Th. 0w has boo, poerd by/ The Work,*. a000  -,* 0ttf r   tr, oon   of
tha 0d0rs a0ld is f0Ar* f1 0* eno -n0u of 1The Wor tB.* - O, nHt.ooot
Fto CorPor t0n.0 Thse drination d V0000 WIn bon ooono 0000    M. tlps do 0rt
Zz0t, on. ti trf ot Tbe VtFank sr1K SW At'J0,o loo Fr  Ct-bon. a0f jo00Nt
30                        M2                           1                             , tOn    W. .100 sbbr d  y or,r or 0o0110d000 o, r0001    of 0u0 h b01000L0S.
OCTOBER 1989



IBRD 18472R
3"                            20                            10                            0                              10                               20
BURKINA   FASO                                                                                                            GHANA
_U1PP..<      ERXASTS    J 0-0 0;EROSION HAZARD
UPPER WEST                             REGI
Land'area where the predomi-
REGION                                                                                                      nont erosion hazard is slight
7)-f                          ~~~~~~~to moderate sheet erosion
100                                                         -            N)                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Land area where the predomi-
-10°                                                          - - --------                                     vWcs )  vere sheet and gu   100
C0TE                               I               ,,                        e,--                                                reosion but more   the latter
nant erosion hazard is with
0                                                                                             moderate to very severe sheet
NORTI-IERN  \                  REGION                                  1,                        and gully erosion but mare of
90v ;                             ~                          4                >                                                   the fua                   f the rmer
Tama1e~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Land area where the predomi-
nant erosion hazard is with
Damongo                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~slight to very slight sheet era-
- --    Region Boundaries
I --                ~~~~~International Boundaries
COITE  \'>
(K  ~~    ASiaga~
D'IVOIRE                                                                                                             (
8o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
-Sunyanio
REIN   REGON                                    ASDRN N
7'                       0~~~~~~~1
/   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  7~~AGUT18



IBRD 18484R2
B U R K I N A   FASO                             1°0Q.one                                    A N                  T       2A
)Hon,iIe~  :                            _}  __;                           aw u,GHANA
. ,  Ndo,,  TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
\&   ( ~ ' "  ' ' ' S ' ~ ~ '   --Bedi,                   \ 
I 10°ig.                                                                                                                                           10Wa
A'-'     , -    D._ y                     - -Zobogo / 
8mb  ~ ~     ~    ~    ___Primary Roads
___Major Secondary Roads
COTE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Other Secondary Roads
Sologo                      On          ----.   Railroads
D' IVC)I RE
D'IVOIREM                                                          o                                           Region Headquarters
_go~ ~ ~~~~~~Bt                                                       k.ng.ID m ng  c7    uugl.9
^   : S   \          : ovo,       .                   I               ,  B    \~~~~Y:\Nk.
Ye[, IVC)I R                                             National Capital
5b/ Fam oci / .4<-,                           /                                           _ t <  v j _ Region Boundaries
8'                                                             (J/Scmpa / | *ffInternational Boundaries
Ports
70                                                                                                                                                  70,
( ~~~~~~~~~TG
Ea     Nkoc               N   k_oso,ob           Ao
60X                    .~TP1    ai        okoos     ,                jf                     Osodokrolo t                                           60 GO
\   Agono      TrObauo di                                                0    0   40    0 ydrIOME
<_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5eo _opreo The denon1lehOn 4,0 andD th bonale 00 on 11an00 doP n  ArJa
tot  2.il;Yl4irusit44Turkwa   t\ e>>W=\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~k t
E-h    Nkw-o                                                                                                 Kato+   4
_So   Jwi   <     = MoW :               t;        A     E COAST
E-i5m                                                                          0SEKO I  1000 20  3'   40 nILES0 4     o   L 5
0   20   40   60   80 KILOMETERS
This map has heen pepardt by Th.eM flsrk  staff' datt    lb, fto theconvLenSc of
ff. -d8l8s ard r   1ax    frthe intmu uso d1 Th.S odd 13snk ent IF. htsrntional
Fin C0rpmb-on The dwnain usad and ths toN*   show  n fths msp do nwot
gm*/. on fth part of The Klrld Be,* and the hntemantioa F-swne Cofporatkn. anY jurJgment
ron fth ft., stat. of ar termitam Or ey end-rsaM en wr cptanro of -ouh hountane..
AUGUST 1986



