Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7295-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOREST RESOURCE mNAGEMNT PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 1988
Western Africa Department
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a estricted distibution and may be used by ecipients ouly In the perfomance of
their official duties. Its contetts may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Cedi (0)
The following exchange rates for US$1.00 are used:
1988  -  ¢ 200
1989  -  ¢ 205
1990  =  ¢ 210
1991  =    217
1992  -  0 221
1993  =  0 223
1994  =  ¢ 225
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Unless otherwise stated, all weights and measures used
in this report are metric.
1 metric ton (m ton) = 2.205 pound (lb)
1 hectare (ha)        =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)           -  3.28 feet (ft)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFU       Agroforestry Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture
CCF       Chief Conservator of Forests
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
CRI       Crop Research Institnte
CSD       Crop Services Department in the Ministry of Agriculture
CSIR      Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DANIDA    Danish International Development Agency
DCCF      Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests
DFO       District Forest Officer
ERP       Export Rehabilitation Project
FAO       Food and Agriculture Organization
FC        Fo. stry Commission
FD        Forestry Department
FPIB      Forest Products Inspection Bureau
FPRI      Forest Products Research Institute
GOG       Government of Ghana
GTMB      Ghana Timber Marketing Board (defunct)
GWD       Ghana Wildlife Department
IRNR      Institute of Renewable Natural Resources
LC        Lands Commission
LD        Lands Department
MFP       Minor Forest Product
)4LNR     Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MOA       Ministry of Agriculture
NORRIP    Northern Region Rural Integrated Development Programme
NTP       Non-Timber Forest Products
ODA       Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PIC       Project Implementation Committee
PNDC      Provisional National Defence Council
PPMEU     Policy Formulation, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
RFO       Regional Forest Officer
SFS       School of Forestry, Sunyani
STO       Senior Technical Officer
TEDB      Timber Export Development Board
TO        Technical Officer
UST       University of Science and Technology
WFP       World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - J.ecember 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonmace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



GRO.,NA
FORESTRY RESOURCE MANAOGrENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pa8e
CREDIT AND PROJECT SU*QARY ......................... .......... ..                      iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ...........    .*......                                           1
II.  SECTORAL BACKGROUND .......... . . . . ... ..     . .... . .. .                1
A.   General Economic Situation and the Forestry Sector                       1
B.  Ecological Zones, Land Use and Land Tenure ..........                     2
C.  Forest Products and Services ........................                     5
D.  Sectoral Institutions and Services ..................                     9
E.  Government Policy and Strategy ......................                    12
F.  Policy Issues and Reforms ...........................                    14
G.  Donor Activities . ...........                                ...        19
H.  IDA's Role ..........           . .       ........                       20
II.  THE PROJECT ........................                                         .20
A.  Project Origin ............................ ...... 6..                   20
B.  Objectives ..........................................                    21
C.  Rationale for IDA Involvement  .......................                   21
D.  The Project Area  ..................................                     22
E.  Project Design and Choice,of Components .............                    22
F.  Summary Project Description.........................                     24
G.  Detailed Features ................... .............                      24
a.  Sector Policy Reforms  ...........................                  24
b.  Forest Management ...............................                   25
c.  Rural Forestry .                                                    28
d.  Strengthening of Forestry Sector Institutions ...                   31
e.  Education and Training.........................                     34
f.  Research   o*........                                              36
H.  Project Costs and Financing ............ .........                       38
I.  Project Implementation and Management ...............                    40
J.  Procurement .                                                   .        43
K.  Disbursement ........................................                    45
L.  Auditing and Reporting . .............................                   47
M.  Environmental Impact .4.. .. .... 0.  ......                  ...        47
N.  Financial Impact ...   6. o ...................... .                     48
0.  Benefits, Justification and Risks ..........50
IV.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................                  .        52



- iL -
ANNIXS
1-1       Documents Available in Project File
2-1       Non-Timber Forest Products
2-2       Forest Fees, Concession Policy, and Actual Cut
in the High Forest
5-1       Program of Policy Reforms and Matrix
3-2       Proposed Letter of Sector Development Policy
3-3       Forest Mana8gment
3-4       Rural Forestry
3-5       Forestry Department Organisational Chart
3-6       Oame and Wildlife
3-7       Education and Training
3-8       Project Cost and Financing
3-9       Implementation Schedule
3-10      Disbursement Schedule
3-11      Special Accounts
3-12      Auditing and Reporting Requirements
3-13      Project Benefits
APS
1.   IBRD No.  15116R3        Rainfall and Ecological Zones
2.   IBRD No.  18469R1        Vegetation Zones
3.   IBRD No.  18393R1        Great Soil Groups
4.  IBRD No.  18484R2         AdminiRtrative and Transport Infrastructure
S.   IBRD No.  18472R         Erosion Hazards
This report is based on the findings of a pre-appraisal mission consisting
of Messrs./Mmes. Chupak (mission leader), McNamara. K. Singh (Dank),
Howard, Moon (ODA) and Speechly (consultant) who visited Ghana in November
1987, and an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs./l4mes. Chupak (mission
leader), Grut, K. Singh, Montoliu-Munoz (Bank), Howard (ODA), Eigaard
(DANIDA), Hepburr (IRSPB), Gibbs snd Swaine (consultants), vh. visisted
Ghana in February-March 1988. Secretarial services were provided by Mmes.
M4olina, Bascomb, and Kail and Bagai, vho also provided computer work.



- iii -
GHRNA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project Pile
A.   Background
1.   Ghana Forestry Sector Review                    6817-GH
B.   Proiect Preparation
1.   Project Preparation Report (FAO/VB-CP)          58187 CP-GHA 18
C.   Working Papers
1.   Forest Management
2.   Rural Forestry
3.   Forest Fees, Concession Policy, and Actual Annual Cut
in the High Forest
4.   Minor Forest Products and Forest Environmental Benefits
5.   First Year Action Plan
6.   TOR of Technical Assistance and Studies
7.   Ghana's Forests and the Environment
8.   Cost Estimate
. .,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- iv -
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEM1NT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of Ghana.
Beneficiaries:           Ministry of Land and Natural Resources (MLNR);
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); Institute 3f
Renewable Natural Resource (IRNR); and Forest
Products Research Institute (FPRI).
Credit Amount:           SDR 30.6 million (US$39.4 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard with 40 years maturity.
Onlending Terms:         Not applicable.
Cofinancierss            ODA (U.K.) US$7.1 million and DANIDA (Denmark)
US$8.3 million.
Project Description:     The project is a policy zeiorm, management
strengthening and institution building operation
aimed at: (i) managing industrial forestry produc-
tion and export earning in accordance with
sustained yield policy; (ii) promoting
conservation and tree planting on farms to
counteract fuelwood shortage and ecological
deterioration; and (iii) strengthening the sector
institutions, to enable them to carry out the
necessary policy reforms, increase rev2nue
generation, and improve protection and management
of the forest and wildlife resources. These would
be achieved through: (i) improved protection and
management of the high forest, and policy changes
in forestry fees and concession allocation
procedures that encourage reduction of logging
waste; (ii) development and implementation of a
rural forestry program with special emphasis on
priority areas in the savanna zones including
Upper East, Upper West, Northern, Greater Accra,
Eastern and Volta Regions; and (iii) the
strengthening of forestry education and research.
The project would be inplemented over six years
and would comprise the following components: (i)
Sector Policy Reforms  which include changes in
forest revenue policy, concession conduct and the



introduction of a free-market into the concession
allocation procedures, improvements in staff
incentive to facilitate the recruitment of the
required professional and technical staff, and
rationalization of the timber trade policy; (ii)
Forest Management which includes natural and
industrial forest inventory inside and outside the
reserves, preparation of harvesting schedules and
rehabilitacion of existing forest plantations;
(iii) Rural Forestry which involves the
strengthening of the Forestry Department (FD) to
carry out planting and protection of trees on land
outside forest reserves by rural population,
seedling production, intensification of extension
(in collaboration with the Ministry of
Agriculture) and publicity on rural forr.stry, and
demonstration of agroforestry packages; (iv)
Strengthening Forestry Sector Institutions which
includes the establishment of a policy
formulation, planning, monitoring and evaluation
unit in the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources (MLNR); reorganization of the FD; and
provision for basic infrastructure (offices, staff
housing, transportation and equipment), technical
assistance and training needed to re&ctivate the
FD and the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD); (v)
Forestry Education and Training by building up the
capacities and capabilities of the main forestry
education and training institutions, the Institute
of Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR) and the
Sunyani Forestry School (SFS); (vi) Adaptive
Research which includes the rehabilitation of the
Forest Products Research Institute (FPRI) to
provide guidance for management of the natural
foresL resource, forestry for rural development,
mainly agroforestry, and utilization of forest
production.



- vi -
Estimated Project Costss 1/
Local          Foreign          Total
............. (US$ Million).
Sector Policy Reforms                           15.0            15.0
Forest Management               3.3              7 2            10.5
atural Forestry                 2.7              4.7             7.4
Institutional Strengthening    3.0               6.9             9.9
Education and Training          2.5              4.8             7.3
Research                        2.8              3.4             6.2
Total Base Cost                14.3             42.0            56.3
Physical Contingencies          1.2              1.6             2.8
Price Contingencies             3.1              2.4             5.5
Total Project Cost             18.6             46.0            64.6
1, Including duties and taxes of US$3.1 million.
Progosed Financing Plan
IDA             5.9             33.5            39.4
ODA               -              7.1             7.1
DANIIA           2.9             5.4             8.3
GOG              9.8              -              9.8
Total     18.6             46.0            64.6
Estimated IDA Disbursenients
FY89 1/  FY90      FY91     FY92     FY93      FY94     FY95
-----------------------------(US$ Million)…---_________________
Annual          9.7      7.5     12.9       4.1      2.4       1.7      1.1
Cumulative     9.7      17.2     30.1      34.2     36.6      38.3     39.4
1/  Project start planned for April 1989 corresponds to the fourth quarter of FY89
and project completion in December 1994 corresponds to the end of the second
quarter of FY95. The project would close on June 30, 1995, that is, at the end of
FY95.
Proiect Benefits          Forestry sector would be able to maintain its role
and Risks:                in the economy, only if sustained yield management
would be carried out effectively. Without a
sustained yield approach to forest management,
there is considerable risk that the resource base
would be significantly eroded in some
agro-climatic zones within a period of 25-30



- vii -
years, particularly due to the recent upsurge in
forest based industry. Unless counter measures
are taken, fuelwood shortages will also increase
and there will be a national fuelwood deficit
towards the end of the century. If unchecked, the
gradual disappearance of trees will pose a threat
to long-term agriculture development in
particular, and the environment in general. The
project's main justification would be to establish
the importance of sustained yield management and
to initiate activities to conserve the resource
base while improving the data base and undertaking
the detailed analysis to develop a sound long-term
policy and strategy. While a methodology is still
to be established by which the full benefits of
the impact of these resource management efforts -
their likely scale and timing - can be fully
quantified, little doubt exists about the validity
or appropriateness of this approach.
Quantifiable benefits are derived from: (i)
agroforestry activities; and (ii) reduction of log
waste estimated to produce a net present value of
US$21 million over 15 years. The risks of the
project involve primarily the uncertainty
concerning the pace at which Government would be
able to proceed with increasing forest fees and
implementing other policy measures, due to a
pprceived ri_k that these could lead to a setback
in exports or to the recent revival of the forest
industries. On the rural forestry side there are
risks associated with a less than expected
response because fully tested packages of
appropriate agro-forestry practices for farmers to
adopt are not readily available, and, therefore,
might lead to an inadequate project impact. These
risks are to be minimized through building
awareness and bringing out the consequences of
delayed actions, through close monitoring of the
resource base and sectoral performance; and by the
project focus on testing out potential packages
for farmers to adopt.
Economic Rate of Return: 21?
Mans      1.   IBRD No. 15116R3:  Rainfall and Ecological Zones
2.   IBRD No. 18469Rl:  Vegetation Zones
3.   IBRD No. 18393R1:  Great Soil Groups
4.   IBRD No. 18484R1:  Administrative and Transport
Infrastructure
5.   IBRD No. 18472R:   Erosion Hazards
AF4AG
October, 1988



GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
I. Introduction
1.01      The Government of Ghana (GOG) has requested assistance from IDA,
ODA and DANIDA for a national forestry pro4ect to strengthen management and
institutions in the forestry sector. The proposed project was identified
as a priority investment in the strategy outlined by the forestry sector
review which was carried out in 1986 under the Global Tropical Forest
Action Program, by a multi-donor mission comprising ODA, CIDA, FAO and the
Bank, and prepared by FAO/CP/ODA in 1987. The proposed project reflects
GOG concern in protecting this valuable resources base and coping with
forest depletion and environmental degradation. Consequently, substantial
emphasis is given to improving the sector contribution to the economy
through a program of sustained yield management for the industrial forest,
a rural forestry strategy with special emphasis on the savanna areas and
strengthening the sector's institutions to enable them to undertake the
necessary policy zeforms, increase revenue generation, and better protect
and manage the forest and the wildlife resources. The proposed project
would complement IDA assistance to enhance the country's export earning
capacity and to the agricultural activities currently being carried out by
ongoing export, agriculture and cocoa rehabilitation projects.
II. Sectoral Background
A. General Economic Situation and the Forestry Sector
2.01      The Republic of Ghana lies between 50 N and 110 N latitude and
between 10 E and 30 W longitude. Covering an area of 23.9 million hectares
(238,500 km2) it is bounded by '1.,re d'Ivoire on the West, Burkina Faso on
the North, Togo on the East --ad the Atlantic Ocean on the South.  Its
population of 14 millior people is estimated to be growing at 32 per annum.
2.02      Ghana's forestry and logging sector has since the early 1970s
accounted for about 5 to 6? of total GDP and has ranked third, next to
cocoa and minerals, among commodity exports. Forests cover about 11.4
million ha or 481 of the country's total area. Export earnings
represented, in 1987, about US$100 million or 11.4Z of total exports of
goods and non-factor services. The sector contributes to Government
revenues in the form of fees and taxes and gives employment to an estimated
70,000 persons (14,000 in forest products Industries). Ghana's forests
play an important role in supplying all the country's timber, and a major
part (752) of its energy requirement. They also yield environmental
benefits, mainly by controlling soil erosion and providing a habitat for
wildlife. The value of the industrial forest products ard
fuelwood/charcoal is about US$150 million and US$200 million, respectively.



- 2 -
2.03      Forestry and forest industries were in a state of decline from
the mid 1970s to the early 19808. The production of logs dropped from 1.9
million m3 in 1975 to 0.6 million m3 in 1982. The value of timber exports
declined during the same period from US$91.4 million to US$15.3 million.
The main causes of the decline were the overvalued cedi, the poor state of
logging, transportation and sawmilling equipment, the non-availability of
spares, deteriorating road infrastructure, constraints resulting from
Government control of export marketing and the ban on the export of logs of
14 primary species. Also, some production was not reflected in official
statistics on account of overland smuggling to neighboring countries.
2.04      Since 1983, however, the Government introduced a series of macro-
economic and sectoral reforms which assisted in getting the forest industry
moving again. The macro-economic adjustments included devaluation of the
Cedi from ¢ 2.75 to the US Do11ar in 1983 to ¢ 90 in early 1986 followed by
the introduction in late 1986 of an auction determined second window
exchange rate as a precursor to a unified (April 1987), realistic, and
floating exchangu rate. Other macro-economic measures included the easing
of import restrictions, removal of price and distribution controls,
improvement of the policy environment for private investment, reform of
state-owned enterprises and improved public sector management. The
sectoral policy and institutional reforms included the abolition of the
Ghana Timber Marketing Board and removal of a number of Government controls
on timber exports. The introduction of the policy of allowing timber
exporters to initially retain 201 and recently up to 35Z of proceeds in
foreign exchange for the Import of spare parts and materials, and the
subsequent sasing of restrictions vhich hampered the application of this
policy, have helped the industry function with fewer interruptions.
2.05      The Government also moved to alleviate the immediate physical
constraints (mainly shortages of equipment, transportation, materials and
spare parts) through the IDA-funded Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP)
(Cr. 1435-GH), and credits from ODA and CIDA. Technical assistance in the
production sector in particular idining, cocoa, and timber under the Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project (ERTAP) (Cr 1436-G!i), aided in
the implementation of the institutional reforms and rehabilitation of
industries in the forestry sector.
2.06      These measures have resulted in a gradual revitalization of the
forestry industry and the annual out-turn of logs and export receipts rose
steadily to reach 0.9 million m3 and US$30 million, respectively, by 1985.
Data for 1986 and 1987 indicate further impressive export growth of the
forestry sector by about 70? and 98X, respectively, reaching approximately
US$100 million in 1987.
B.   Ecological Zones, Land Use and Land Tenure
2.07      Ecological Zones.  Ecologically, Ghana comprises two main zones:
the high forest zone and the savanna zone. The high forest zone covers



roughly one third of the country (8.2 million ha), but supports two thirds
of the population. It includes the wet and moist evergreen forest, moist
semi-deciduous forest and dry semi-deciduous forest. It has a bi-modal
rainfall ranging between 1,300 and 2,100 mm annually, and generally good
soils (mostly forest ochrosols). Most of the country's economic activity
(cocoa, oil palm, rubber, timber and mineral production) is concentrated in
this zone. The savanna zone covers 661 of the country's total area or 15.7
million ha in the Northern, Upper East, and Upper West Regions and parts of
the Brong-Ahafo and Volta Regions. It includes four vegetation types: the
derived savanna, southern guinea, northern guinea and sudan savanna. The
rainfall in the north is monomodal and ranges between 800 and 1,200 mm. It
is erratic and undependable and has shown a decreasing trend over the past
30 years. The soils are relatively poor, being mostly savanna ochrosols
and groundwater laterites. The main economic activities in this zone are
annual crop production (foodcrops, groundnut, cotton) and livestock
production. Maps 1, 2, 3 and 4 show the different vegetation zones,
rainfall and ecological zones, main soil groups and administrative units,
respectively.
2.08      The natural forest of Ghana includes two categories: the tropical
high forest and the savanna forest. The high forest, which at the
beginning of the century covered virtually the entire 8.2 million ha of the
high forest zone, has beer reduced to about 1.7 million ha today. This
corresponds to an annual reduction of 75,000 ha, or 2 percent. The high
forest is the major source of logs for the wood products industry, while
the savanna area at about 9.4 million ha (out of 15.7 mn ha), plays an
important role in the supply of building poles, fuelwood and charcoal.
However, the main cause of deforestation has been the quest for
agricultural land, rather than the quest for timber or fuelvood. Forest
plantation in both the high forest and savanna zones is registered at
76,000 ha, but of that the firmly established plantation area is estimated
at only 50,000 ha.
2.09      Land use in Ghana can be grouped into seven major categories:
million ha           X
Forest reserves                 2.6              11
Wildlife reserves               1.2               5
Unreserved high forest          0.5               2
Savanna woodlands               7.1             30
Tree crops                      1.7               7
Annual crops                    1.2               5
Unimproved pasture              3.6              15
Bush fallow and other uses      6.0              25
23.9            100
2.10      The area of land under agriculture is increasing due primarily to
the rapid increase in population (currently at 3? per annum but expected to
accelerate to 3.5Z per annum in the 19909).  Populat'on densities
(calculated excluding forest reserves) range from 17 inhabitants per km2 in



- 4 -
the Northern Region to 95 per km2 in the Upper East within the savanna
zone, and from 32 per km2 in Brong-Ahafo to 140 in Central Region within
the high forest zone, but much higher densities are often reached locally.
Other factors contributing to the expansion of acreage under agriculture
ares the declining productivity of land under shifting cultivation (re-
sulting in shorter fallow periods); the movement of cocoa farmers into the
Western and Brong-Ahafo Regions in response to the spread of cocoa swollen
shoot virus disease in the Eastern Aegion, as well as to improved cocoa
producer prices which increased from 23Z of FOB value to about 43Z; and the
adoption of animal traction methods by farmers in the savanna regions.
2.11      Land tenure.  Land tenure systems in Ghana include private land,
Stool or Skin Land. 1/ Stool or Skin land vested in the State and held in
trust for the Jwners, and State land. Privately-owned land is increasing
but still constitutes only a small proportion. Since the enactment of the
Stool Lands Act of 1960 and the Administration of Lands Act of 1962, the
control of the management of Stool and Skin Lands has been vested in the
Head of State. However, except in the case of forest reserves and other
lands directly held and managed by the State, control of these lands has
been devolved to the Paramount Chiefs, District Chiefs, Sub-Chiefs and
other stools/skins, so that farmers continue to enjoy their traditional
usufructuary rights. The return of control to the chiefs is limited since
they can only allocate a parcel of land, but it is the Government which has
the right (rarely exercised) to determine the terms, duration and size of
the allocation. Forest reserves are vested in the Head of State and -
managed by the Forestry Department (FD) of the Ministry of Land and Natural
Resources (MLNR). The Lands Department of MLNR collects revenues from
forests outside the reserves.
2.12      Several features of prevailing land and tree tenure systems mili-
tate against the planting of trees by individual farmers and communities.
Thus, in certain areas of the savanna zone, chiefs prohibit tree planting,
especially by 'stranger' farmers from outside the community. Sometimes
there are restrictions on the period of r--ufruct. Villagers who are
compelled to move from a site due to reasons of declining fertility or weed
competition often find it difficult to reassert their orally recorded
ownership of trees they had planted. The right to dispose of standing
timber trees is also the subject of many disputes. In the high forest zone
farmers prefer to destroy valuable timber trees on their land (they do not
have ownership of the trees), rather than have the concessionaires come in
to fell them and in the process often destroy adjacent crops. The solution
to this issue is a long term process and involves social and legal changes,
1/ Stool/Skin lands are lands controlled by the head of a community,
extended family, tribe or clan on their behalf. The symbol of such
authority is referred to as a 'Stool' in Southern Ghana and 'Skin' in
Northern Ghana in much the same way as uCrown' refers to the authority
of a king.



- 5 -
regarding tree awnership and status of chiefs. A socio-economic study
would be carried out under the rural forestry component (para 3.19) to
provide possible approaches to the issue.
C.   Forest Products and Services
2.13      Timber.  Ghana's timber production is derived from the high
forest. Although the management of this forest is vested in the
Government, logging and timber processing are mostly in the hands of the
private sector. Sawnwood (lumber) and veneer are the principal products.
About 190 tree species grow to timber size in the high forest, but of these
only about 40 are used, and thereof a mere 10 species account for 75Z of
production. The main species used, and the proportion of each in the
annual cut, are set out in Working Paper 3, Appendix 1. From time to time
new species come into use. Afrormosia, for example, which was once
considered useless, today commands the highest royalty (stumpage) price of
all the high forest species: Cedis 24,000/tree in MLNR's new proposal.
After more than half a century of trial and error, the Ghana Forestry
Department has arrived at a simple and safe silvicultural system in the
high forest, by not allowing the felling of trees with a breast height
diameter below 68 cm or 107 cm, depending on species. More interventionist
systems generally proved expensive and harmful, such as forest
*improvement" by poisoning weed" species, many of which have since become
marketable. The problem today is not with the silvicultural system, but
with the fact that the Forestry Department (FD), because of lack of
personnel and vehicles, is generally unable to ensure that the
minimum-diameter rule is respected. The current estimate of the annual
allowable cut of 1.1 million m3 comprises: (i) 720,000 m3 from reserved
forest; (ii) 120,000 m3 from unreserved forest, and (iii) 260,000 m3 from
plantations. However, this can be considered a conservative estimate
because of the following: ti) it does not include species which are
presently marginally commercial and harvested to supply specific orders
(Group B in the Forestry Sector Review). The annual increment of Group B
is estimated at 385,000 m3 in the reserved forest alone, and (ii) the 1.1
million m3 is only 70Z of the estimated increment allowing for generous
safety margin. This present estimate of the annual allowable cut would be
verified through the high forest inventory exercise carried out by ODA and
to be completed by the proposed project by the end of 1991. In order to
achieve sustainability of the high forest production of timber and
environmental services assurances were obtained at the negotiations that
the annual cut would be restricted to the level of 1.1 million m3 or any
other figure that would result from the high forest inventory exercise
(para 4.01 (f)).
2.14      Kumasi is the center of the logging and wood processing industry,
whereas Takoradi is the main export port. There are 500 loggers, 85
sawmills, 18 veneer and plywood mills, and more than 200 members of the
Furniture Manufacturers' Association. In 1987 320,000 m3 of logs and
200,000 m3 of processed wood (derived from 495,000 m3 of logs) was
exported, representing about 1/4 of installed capacity; the total FOB value
was US$100 million. Germany is the main buyer of logs, Britain the main



buyer of processed wood. The roundwood equivalent of the locally consumed
wood is about 540,000 m3. The total roundwood equivalent of the wood use,
local and export, is thus 1.35 million m3. Due to inadequate know-how,
management control and extremely low forestry fees, the logging waste is
very considerable, It is generally considered to be of the order of 502 to
100l of the cut, bringing the total cut to about 2.0-2.7 million m3. This
issue would be addressed by the project (para 3.16 (v)). As the wood
industries are running at about 40-502 of their capacity, investment in
increasing processing capacity would therefore not be justifiable, except
to the extent necessary to improve conversion rates and product quality
and/or shift to greater value added products: this should be undertaken
through the private sector.
2.15      Fuelwood.  Present production of non-industrial forest products
is estimated at 12.6 milli'on m3 equivalent, of which fuelwood accounts for
582, charcoal 37Z and poles 5Z. The volume and value of these products
harvested annually has been estimated as follows:
Price     Price per m3       RWE 21    Total value
(Cedis)       RWE 2/        (000 m3i)   (million cedis)
(cedis)
Fuelwood (rural)   2.01kg         1,400          6,985         9,780
Fuelwood (urban)   6.5/kg         4,530            360         1,640   -
Charcoal          13.6/kg         1,335          4,690         6,260
Poles             75.0 each       1,400            600           840
12,635        18,520
2/ Roundwood equivalent
The total value of these products is 18.5 billion cedis, equivalent to
$90.0 million, approaching the value of annual hardwood exports. The
forestry sector review indicates that the fuelwood balance in Ghana would
become significantly negative at the end of the centu:y. Underlying this
conclusion were projections pointing to a relatively high and positive
fuelwood consumption growth of approximately 2.8 percent on average between
1986 and 2000, as against a negative wood increment of 0.7 percent per
annum, resulting in a deficit fuelwood situation of 11.6 million m3 of
excess demand by the end of this century. In the absence of an action
oriented programme that specifically calls for a slowing down of fuelwood
consumption through improved cooking stoves and woodfuel substitutes on the
one hand, and increasing supplies of fuelwood through improved forest
management and additional tree planting on the other, such a scenario would
be highly probable at the national level. In regions where rainfall is
irregular and sparse, and where population pressure has accelerated land
clearing, shorten i the bush fallow and increased fuelwood harvesting, as
is the case in the Upper Easterngion and isolated areas in the Northern
region, desertification has already set in in an obvious way. This in turn
has led to further ecological damage, which very often can be irreversible,



- 7 -
with consequent and adverse repercussions on the annual increment. The
need for a national energy policy that can be readily implemented is urgent
as is a national land-use policy. Meanwhile, this project, designed
primarily to deal with the larger issue in depletion of the country's
forest resource, makes a start in tackling the problem of fuelvood on the
supply side, through its pilot rural forestry component which focuses on
tree planting and indigenous attitudes towards tree planting. Increasing
deforestation, especially in the northern part of the country, is already
resulting in local shortages of fuelwood, building and poles, shorter
periods of fallow and greater erosion. Fuelvood resource utilization is
poor. Most of the trees removed in land clearing are burnt; damage by fire
is rampant; charcoal production is inefficient, as in the direct burning of
fuelvood; and mill and logging residues are hardly used. Outside the
forest reserves there is no management or control of forest utilization in
the savanna zone. These issues would be addressed through community and
agroforestry aspects of rural forestry under the project (paras 3.19-
3.24).
2.16      Minor Forest Products (MFPs).  'Minor, forest products include
wood fuels (fuelwood and charcoal), bushmeat and other uses of wildlife,
medicinal plants, edible plants, plants used for construction or production
of other goods (mats, baskets, furniture, dyes, household and hygiene
implements, tools), honey, resins and gums, etc. These products are
usually excluded from the calculation of the economic value of forests,
partly because of the preconception that some of them are but remnants of
traditional practices facing decline. The following pieces of inrormation
give an indication on the value of MFPs:
(a) 75Z of the population of Ghana eats bushmeat regularly,
regardless of the income level; in some rural areas, bushmeat and
fish are the only sources of animal protein. Furthermore, it has
been documented that the dependence of rural populations upon
bushmeat consumption has not diminished between 1935 and 1975
(Asibey, 1970). In a single market in Accra, more than 12.0
million cedis (US$202,000) of bushmeat were sold in 1985, of
which 751 corresponded to a single species, the grasscutter
(Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987).
(b) In 1985, close to 21,000 wild animals were exported alive, adding
up to US$344,032 (Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987). In particular, pressure
is being exerted on the population of monkeys in the forest, due
to their use in AIDS research in industrialized countries.
(c) Close to 10OZ of the rural population uses traditional medicine,
partly based on fotest plants, as their main (and sometimes only)
source of health care. About 60Z of the urban population also
relies heavily on it. The GOG has acknowledged the importance of
traditional medicine by supporting it and promoting systematic
research on traditional medicinal practices (an example is the
creation of the Mampong Centre for Research on Plant Medicine,
the first of its type in Africa). Exports of plants for



- 8 -
laboratory applications in industrialized countries also take
place; the example can be mentioned of a single enterprise vhich
exported 110 tons of a small forest fruit (from Thanmatoctcc;.a
danielli), used in Great Britain as a source of a powerful sugar
substitute.
(d)  A considerable number of forest species are used as supplementary
or emergency food (see a list of usetul species in Annex 2-1).
However, information on the use of these species is even scantier
than that of the products mentioned earlier.  The government
lacks the resources to monitor gathering practiues (as an
example, only 2 hunting permits were recorded for the whole
country in the 1980 Annual Report of the Forestry Department).
Furthermore, local institutions undertaking research on MFPs
(FPRI, FC, IRNR, University of Ghana Legon, National Energy
Board) do not hold a coordinated, coherent research program which
can yield sound economic data. The project would address the
above-mentioned problems of information regarding MFPs (para
3.23).
2.17      Environmental contribution of forests.  Besides yielU"ng timber
and non-timber products, forests fulfill important environmental functions.
These include: soil conservation, hydrological stabilization, climate
amelioration, and the protection of bio-diversity and endemic species. For
example:
-    converting high forests to shifting cultivation increases soil
erosion, on average, by a factor of 12, from 6 to 70 tons per
hectare per year, at this rate top soil cover would be lost
between 10 and 15 years depending on mechanical properties of the
soil;
-    eliminating savanna forests typically increases annual soil
losses from less than one ton per hectare to more than 100 tons;
-    nutrient losses by leaching from unprotected savanna are
estimated to be equal to 14 kg per hectare per year for N and K
alone, which is 40Z higher than the current average annual
fertilizer application (10 kg/ha) in Ghana.
-    Ghana's high forest contains more than 2,100 identified plant
species in the forest zone, including 360 species of trees; of
these, 18 species are endemic and 23 species are noted as
threatened; and
-    Ghana's forest fauna includes 200 identified species, including
many that are considered to be very rare and endangered.
The above is unquestionably related to economic benefits enjoyed by the
country, but the lack of data for assessing the economic value of
environmental services prevent analysts from building what otherwise would



be a very strong argument for the protection of tropical humid forests in
Ghana. The project would address these issues through an effort to develop
a methodology for measuring some of the environmental costs of
deforestation (in particular erosion and nutrients' loss, for which certain
measurement techniques already exist, Working Papers 4 and 7).
D.   Sectoral Institutions and Services
2.18      Institutional support for the forestry sector is provided mainly
by the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR), activities in
agro-forestry have recently started by the Crop Services Department (CSD)
in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). In addition, there are two
institutices, one for research, the Forest Products Research Institute
(FPRI) under the Forestry Commission (FC), and one for forest education,
the Institute for Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR) under the University
of Science and Technology (UST). Their major functions and constraints are
discussed below.
2.19      Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR) is responsible for
policy formulation and implementation of natural resource conservation and
management programs. Training for advanced studies in natural resource
management is offered by the Institute of Renewable Resources (IRNR),
recently (August 1987) transferred from MLNR to the Higher Educetion
Section of the Ministry of Education. MLNR is presently not in a position
to effectively perform its functions of policy analysis End formulation,
and of monitoring the sector activities. This is due mainly to lack of
qualified staff, tra.ning equipment, transportation and an adequate staff
incentive system. "tiese issues would be tackled by the project (paras 3.25
and 3.26).
2.20      Forestry Department (FD) manages thi forest estate and the
national forestry program. It has been mainly concerned with the
management of forest reserves. Its regional forest offices carry
multifaceted responsibilities with primary emphasis on administration of
forest working plans, control of forestry aspects of logging operations,
collection of forest revenues, and forest protection within the forest
reserves.
2.21      The major problems impairing FD performance are a shortage of
trained staff; inadequate accommodation and offices in remote areas; poor
communication; and inadequate funding for operational expenses. At
present, 66Z of the posts are vacant in the professional category, 542 at
the semi-professional level, 43Z among technical officers and 3? among the
sub-technicals. In the past decade, FD has suffered from diminishing
budgetary allocations in real terms. As a result, FD has been unable to
maintain mobility, and consequently most field activities were halted.
While FD has been able to maintain and enforce t1q forest reserve
boundaries, its control of concession operations has slipped. Fortunately,
the decline in the FD's field activity coincided with the decline in
logging from 1975 to 1982, and thus the negative consequences were somewhat
minimized. However, FD's management and fiscal control are weak and there



- 10 -
is no effective monitoring of field activities. With renewed demand for
logs it would be necessary for the GOG to revitalize the FD if rapid
resource depletion is to be avoided. These issues would be addressed by
the project (paras 3.16-3.30).
s 2.22       Lands Department (LD).  The LD is responsible for forest conces-
'eions outside forest reserves and for collection of revenue from such
areas. Currently the LD lacks the technical staff and infrastructure to
implement programs for the collection of forest fees on lands outside
forest reserves, and frequently requests assistance from FD staff. To
resolve this problem during the project, MLNR would strengthen FD's
institutional capacity and by the end of the second year of the project
(October 1, 1990) HLNR would transfer the responsibility for the collection
of forest fees outside forest reserves to the FD. Assurances to this
effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 4.01 (g)).
2.23      The Game and Wildlife Department (GWD).  The GWD manages and
protects selected areas for a number of kunctions including the
preservation of important endangered flora and fauna, research and
education. These areas includes (a) five national parks; (b) two wildlife
sanctuaries and one nature reserve; and (c) five Game Production Reserves.
It is responsible for the enforcement of regulations relating to hunting
and other uses of wildlife. Its staffing levels are well below the
establishment, vacancies being concentrated in the professional and senior
technical grades. The difficulty of recruiting trained personnel is
compounded by the lack of training opportunities due to non-availability of
foreign exchange and the obstacles faced by local training institutions.
Besides the lack of adequately trained manpower, the GWD suffers from a
number of major constraints, such as lack: of transportation; lack of field
commnication and laboratory equipment; unsatisfactory working and living
conditions in the field, which adversely affect staff morale; poor
comminications with field staff; lack of operating expenses and management
of park facilities; and poor remuneration and the absence of incentive or
rewards schemes for staff. These constraints would be addressed by the
project (paras 3.30-3.32).
2.24      Forest Products Inspection Bureau (FPIB) and the Timber Export
Development Board (TEDB). Both of these bodies were established in 1985
following the abolishment of the Ghana Timber Marketing Board (GTMB). FPIB
and TEDB have separate boards of directors representing both GOG and the
industry. The FPIB has two major functions: to introduce standardization
and conformity with grading rules to ensure that exports meet such
standards, and that invoice prices conform with product value. The TEDB's
role is to promote sales and exports of Ghana's timber products and to
compile and publish statistical information on the trade. The TEDB has a
number of listed agents in importing countries, and a London office to
promote trade and provide market intelligence. These two institutions need
assistance in training and other technical assistance, which would be
provided by the project (para 3.33).



- 11 -
2.25      The School of Forestry, SunYani (SFS) offers a three-year course
to educate personrel at the technical level with a potential annual intake
of 60 students. Present student enrollment is 134. Major -onstrai3ts are:
(i) inadequate teaching staff; (ii) irregular and inadequate funding
resulting in poor maintenance of buildings and equipment; (iii) lack of
reliable water; (iv) inadequate field-camp, audio-visual and traveling
equipment, and mobility. Furthermore, the curriculum needs to be adjusted
to current needs; some subjects like rural sociology, agroforestry and
community forestry are not represented in the curriculum. . The school
does not provide for in-service training of TOs. Nor is there any formal
education or training for sub-technical (Forest Guard) level staff. These
would be tackled by the project (para 3.38).
2.26      The Institute of Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR).  The Insti-
tute provides educatidbu--for both professional and sub-professional
personnel and offers course --keading to (a) a B.Sc. in renewable natural
resources (three years), (b) a "d&ploma in renewable natural resources (two
years), and (c) an M.Sc. in wood trchnology and industrial management (two
years). IRNR is located on the campif',of the University of Science and
Technology (UST) and has four department&-s2 (a) silviculture and forest
management, (b) wood science -nd wood tech1ionlogy, (c) wildlife and range
management, and (d) freshwater fisheries and watershed management.
2.27      At present IRNR is understaffed with only- four teachers at the
H.Sc. level; there are 27 vacant positions. The IRNR'currently occupies a
tiny dilapidated building consisting of two lecture rooms and a few
offices, and consequently has to rely largely on its neighbor FPRI for
laboratory and lecture room facilities. Staff accommodation is. scarce,
field and laboratory equipment are virtually nonexistent, and only three
operational vehicles are available.  Very limited funds are received for
operating expenses other than personnel emoluments, Pnd almost none for
capital expenditure. These problems would be addresLed through the project
(paras 3.35-3.41).
2.28      Forestry research in Ghana is carried out at the Forest Products
Research Institute (FPRI).  In 1982 it became a statutory body under the
Forestry Commission (FC) with direct funding from the Ministry of Finance.
The FPRI is not limited to product research, and is divided into three
divisions: (a) silviculture and forest management, (b) forest production,
and (c) forest utilization. Each division has its Amn research projects
reviewed periodically by a Research Advisory Committee. There are 10
ongoing projects. The FPRI has a staff of 27 research officers (vs. an
establishment of 63) and 24 technical staff (vs. an establishment of 60),
following an exodus in the early 1980s due to the decline of salaries in
real terms, lack of opportunities for in-country post-graduate training and
unsatisfactory working conditions. Other constraints which hamper FPRIIs
activities are the lack of transportation, lack of spares and replacements
for old laboratory equipment, lack of field equipment, office equipment and
seed handling and testing equipment and the general rundown state of the
buildings. Inadequate operating expenses and suspension of the payment of
subsistence allowances to staff on duty travel also constitute serious



- 12 -
drawbacks. Lack of proper coordination with the FD and the Crop Research
Institute in the Ministry of Agriculture is also a constraint to the
development of relevant research programs. These issues would be addressed
by the project (paras 3.42-3.46).
E. Government Policy and Strategy
2.29      In spite of the importance of Ghana's forest resources for the
provision of domestic fuelwood and timber needs for an expanding population
as well as for precious foreign exchange earnings, an agreed Government
policy at present exists only in broad terms. Even so, these limited
indications are useful in that they establish certain priorities that guide
development in the sub-sector. The objective of Government policy is to
effect optimum utilization of the forestry resources, while ersuring that
long term sustained-yields. This policy acknowledges the continuing and
potential d.anage to Ghana's ecology and environment that unregulated and
unplanned mining of the forest resource can bring about.
2.30      Specifically, the key element in the current Government policy
aret (i) creating permanent forest resources by reservation of appropriate
areas of forest or land suitable for afforestation; (ii) managing the
permanent forest estate so as te maximize productivity and value in
perpetuity; (iii) promoting research within all branches of scientific
forestry; (iv) improving people's understanding of the need to safeguard
the nation's forests through public education; (v) providing technical
advice and assistance to Governmental and non-Governmental forestry; (vi)
cooperating with all agencies expressing an interest in optimizing land
use, and in rural afforestation; and (vii) training of staff at all levels
in the forestry sub-sector. The legislative framework consisting of
Reservation Laws, Forest Resource Protection Laws, and Timber Trade Laws
that evolved early this century provide a suitable structure for
suggestions to this general policy. However, severe implementation
problems concerning the control of concession and illegal burning need to
be tackled. The project would deal with this immediate weakness in policy
implementation through forest fee and concession rationalization (paras
2.35 (b) and 2.36) and institutional strengthening (paras 3.22-3.31).
2.31      On domestic needs, particularly those relating to fuelwood, the
Government strategy is to: (i) diversify and promote alternative energy
sources, such as biomass, hydropower and hydrocarbons, stimulate the use of
kerosene and LPG as substitutes for charcoal, and reduce petroleum imports;
(ii) encourage community and farm forestry; (iii) make more efficient use
of fuelwood resources by increased use of mill and logging residues (e.g.
use as boiler fuel in sawmills for steam raising and/or electricity
generation, as kiln fuel in the brick and tile industry, as fuel in cottage
industries and for fish smoking and as raw material for sawdust
briquettes); (iv) step up enforcement of fire regulations; and (v) promote
more efficient charcoal production through the wider and preferred use of
brick and metal kilns. This is considered to be a well thought out
strategy but one which must be carried out urgently, giVen the fact of a
vibrant demand and dwindling supply of fuelwood. The Bank, through the



- 13 -
Household Energy Unit, is already involved in (i) improved charccal
production study: and (ii) financing the production and distribution of
improved stoves.
2.32      On export demand, the Government's strategy is to encourage
domestic wood processing and to focus on increased domestic value added
products that could successfully compete in foreign markets, rather than
the export of logs and lumber per se. In support of this strategy, the
Government has recently added 4 species to the 14 species already included
on the list of banned exports in log form, the aim being to encourage their
use for increasing domestic value added. Alternative policy options (paras
2.42 and 2.43) to achieve the same result of optimizing domestic value
added would be available by end 1989 for GOG's consideration. With a view
to promoting domestic value added, Government has also reduced the foreign
exchange retention for the logger and saw-millep from 20Z to 5Z, and the
Timber Export Development Board (TEDB) is working on proposals to introduce
graduated retention along the following lines: furniture parts 35?,
flooring and moulding 20?, sawn-timber 1OX and logs 5S.
2.33      The need to develop and spell out a.gomprehensive national forest
policy derives from the importance of Ghana's forest resources for: (i)
provision of environmental services, such as the maintenance of soil and
water resources, flora, and fauna; (ii) provition of domestic fuelwood,
charcoal, and timber needs for an expanding population; and (iii) ensuring
foreign exchange earnings. A major change has taken place since 1984 in
the economic environment which is driving the behavior of participants in
the sector. Improved incentives for exports, and given Ghana's paramount
need for such earnings are competing against longer term but not well
quantified consequences for the environment, for agricultural productivity
and for even sustaining the direct economic benefits from the exploitation
of forest resources. A revised policy framework and strategy, based on an
improved quantification and analysis of the trade-offs between these
competing claims is critically needed. GOG would revise its national
forest policy in order to recognize rural forestry, agro-forestry and the
environment more fully. In addition, it would prepare a strategy statement
identifying actions to be undertaken and an appropriate timetable. The
National Forest Strategy Statement would be prepared by the Policy
Formulation, Planning and Monitoring and Evaluation Unit PPMEU) and be
reviewed by the Government not later than September 30, 1992. and annually
thereafter, and these reviews would take into account IDA's comments.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01 (h)).



- 14 -
F.   Policy Issues and Reforms
2.34      In recent years, the performance in Ghana's forestry sector has
been impeded by the country's improving, though still weak macroeconomic
situation, and even more so by inappropriate action on the part of
authorities on key policy issues within the sector. As a result, the
sector has been operated and managed by staff who are often poorly trained,
inadequately enumerated, and insufficiently motivated. Furthermore, sector
institutions regularly suffer from a severe paucity of funds, capital and
recurrent, which are made available with considerable delays. Resource
mobilization within the sector has been far below its known capacity for
generating sizeable revenue. Activities and decisions within the se,cor
are excessively controlled through an ad hoc system of concession
allocation that denies the sector the basic rewards of market determined
efficiency. Heavy protection to the sector through Government's policy of
banning the exports of logs of 18 species of trees on grounds of the need
for rehabilitating and further developing Ghana's wood processing industry
has, in the absence of a competitive environment, resulted in the
substantial waste and misuse of the resource, and the deprivation of the
potential benefits that it would yield. In other words, the forest
resource has not been given the extent of protection and attention that is
essential to its conservation, utilization and regeneration. To reverse
the sector's declining productivity and to prevent the environmental
degradation which would be inevitable were this neglected, the policy
issues that need to oe urgently and adequately addressed relate to: (i) an
outdated forest revenue system; (ii) inadequate control of the concession
system; (iii) inadequate staff remuneration, in particular at the senior
staff levels; (iv) inadequate funding; and (v) a ban on log exports.
Actions on these issues are crucial if the project is to be successful.
Specific actions on Ci) (increasing the royalty fees to 62 of the
respective FOB net value) and on (ii) (gazetting of the agreed policy
concerning concession allocation procedures) would be conditions of
effectiveness (para 4.02 (a)). Quick implementation of several essential
steps covered in (i), (ii), (iii) and (v) have been made conditions of the
second tranche release (para 4.03) under a quick disbursing component
dealing with sector policy reforms (para 3.15). Also, assurances were
obtained at negotiations on, first, the preparation of a Natioual Forest
Strategy (paras. 2.29, 2.33 and 4.01 (h)), and second, proper funding for
sector institutions (para. 4.01 (f)).
(C) Outdated Forest Revenue System
2.35      Current forestry fees are extremely low and encourage excessive
resource depletion, wastage and inefficiency in the forest industry,
besides failing to contribute adequately to Government revenue and to the
costs of managing the resource. The predominant issue is to establish a
methodology that would: (i) reflect the market value of the forest
products; (ii) take into account the variations in values of different
species and of different sites; (iii) cover, at least, the cost of managing
the resource; and (iv) permit easy adjustment to changing conditions such



- 15 -
as inflation and exchange rate. Therefore, the following fees formula is
proposed (Annex 2-2)s
(a)  Royalty Fees.  NLNR recently proposed to the Goverrment a new
royalty fee structure that provides for: (i) an increase in fees
in real terms; (ii) a greater increase in fees for over-used than
for neglected species; and (iii) the possibility of adjusting
royalty fees more easily and more frequently. The project would
support this prc?osal. Royalty fees would be reviewed by
September 30 of each year and if the review warranted it, these
fees would be adjusted to reflect changes in FOB values, exchange
rates, and local costs of cutting, transporting and processing
timber. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
(para 4.01 (1)). Although the new royalty fees proposed by MLNR
would represent an increase in real terms, they would still be
very low compared to the fees calculated by deducting costs and a
reasonable profit from the FOB values of the finished products.
The weighted average of the proposed royalty feas amounts to
about 6Z of the weighted average of the FOB value of exportable
logs less cost of transportation and logging, referred to as net
FOB value. This percentage would be increased to at least 12Z of
the respective FOB value; this step we-ld be one of the
conditions of disbursement of the second tranche of the sector
reform component (para 4.03 (a)). Furthermore, assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the royalty fees would be increased
to at least 18 of the respective FOB value by January 1992 (para
4.01 (i)).  Once the FD inventory section has been sufficiently
strengthened (1991), royalty fees would be charged per cubic
meter rather than as now per tree, in order to facilitate
record-keeping. When the above change-over has been successfully
completed (1992), the next step (1993) would be to charge the
royalty fees on the basis of utilizable volume rather than per
tree, as it is now. Such a step will reduce the enormous logging
waste. This change, however, would first be introduced on an
experimental scale.
(b)  Concession Rent.  To more fully reflect the market values of
forest products, to take into account variations in accessibility
between concession areas, and to increase forest revenues, a
free-market mechanism would be introduced into the forest fees
system.  The criteria on which new concessions are to be
allocated, would include information on the amount of concession
rent for a given concession that applicants would be willing to
pay over and above the standard concession fee. To make the
willingness-to-pay a meaningful criterion, it should be awarded a
weight of not less than 50X. Reaching the weight of 50X and
agreement on a timetable to increase it to 60? would be condition
of disbursement of the second tranche of the sector reform
component (pare 4.03 (b)). For each concession allocated
according to the new system, the rent would be adjusted every
five years, according to a formula to be agreed on beforehand.



- '6 -
The submission of a letter of Sector Development Policy, dealing
inter alia with the royalty fees and concession allocation
procedures would be a condition for Board Presentation (para
4.04).
(ii) Concession Control
2.36      The present allocation of timber concessions is a major
constraint on the productivity and effective management of the resource.
The large number of concessions impedes the task of forest management and
felling control. Many concessions remain inactive. Lack of a single
authority for concession management and record keeping exacerbates the
problem of control. Therefore, assurances for the following were obtained
at negotiations (para 4.01 (j)):
(a) Allocation of concessions would be improved by introducing by
June 30, 1989, the free-market mechanism described in para 2.35
(b) above for all concessions falling due for reallocation,
either on expiry of the present lease, termination arising from
breach of the lease agreement, or termination on the grounds of
non-activity (concession agreements stipulate that the working
plan prescriptions must be carried out). This measure would
permit tie most efficient operators to obtain an adequate supply
of timber. It would also provide additional revenue in a manner
that cannot exceed industry's ability to pay. Prequalification
conditions would be necessary, e.g., adequate technical capacity
or access to such capacity (to be judged by TEDB), and adequate
financial means (bank letter). OQnership of existing processing
capacity should not be required as a condition, but it may be
included among the concession allocation criteria.
(b) A Concessions Unit would be established within the Forestry
Department, with responsibility for record keeping and monitoring
for all concessions. Responsibility for management and
administration of all concessions, including those now managed by
the Lands Department outside Forest Reserves, would be
established within the Forestry Department not later than the
third year of the Project (1990). Appointment of a unit head
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness (para
4.02 (b)).
(c) In reallocating concessions, existing small concessions3 would,
where possible, be consolidated into larger units, withi a view to
reducing the total number of concessions by about 501 or more; as
far as possible, concessions should not be smaller than about
10,000 ha.
(d) Legislation regarding concessions would be reviewed, with the
objective of facilitating the termination of concessions
following breach of agreement, and of introduction of legal
penelties sufficient to deter unauthorized felling.



- 17 -
(e) Concessions would be granted for longer periods, up to 50 years,
to encourage conzessionaires to take more interest in management
and protection.
(f) Once the FD working plans branch in Kumasi has been strengthened,
a work plan would be prepared for each new concession, and
adherence to it monitored.
(iii) Staff Remuneration
2.37      Staff salaries, in particular those of senior staff, are
extremely low and are a major cause of lack of motivation, low morale, and
a shortage of trained staff in FD and related institutions. FD has been
losing trained staff over the vears, and many Ghanaian professional
foresters are working in other African countries. The complications and
difficulties involved in protecting and managing the forest resource, and
the need to cope with large-scale illegal cutting and rampant opportunities
for corruption require not only changes in forestry fees and
rationalization of the concession system, but also a basic change in staff
remuneration and leadership to improve the incentives, motivation, and
responsibility of FD staff. Project initiatives to proviie better
equipment, mobility, training and technical assistance will not sustain an
effective management unless management also has the freedom to make the
necessary changes in staffing (recruitment and retrenchment as appropriate)
and to establish its salary and allowance structures. The need to improve
staff incentives cannot be over-emphasized if forest control is to be
implemented and project success achieved.
2.38      There are two options for addressing the issue:  (i) one is the
establishment of an autonomous organization, for example, the Forest
Authority. This option would involve a change in the nature of an existing
Government institution, that is, the Forestry Department, to achieve
greater effectiveness by providing its management with the capacity to
adopt an independent manpower policy, including a salary and allowance
structure. (ii) The second involves a solution within the civil service,
with the following principles to be used in preparing a sound and
acceptable solution: (a) a detailed job description would be prepared for
all the posts in the FD and GWD that are related to forest control and
field work. These job descriptions would emphasize the complexity of the
tasks and the degree of specialization required to carry out these duties
and therefore justify a new grade level structure; (b) special allowances
such as field and risk allowances would be introduced with a range of 202
to 401 of the base salaries and wages in accordance with the level of
responsibility and grade; and (c) the policy would be applied only to the
most important functions such as forest guards, forest rangers, forest
officers and forest conservators. As a starting point, the issue of staff
incentives, would be resolved within the civil service and a special field
allowance of at least 202 of the present base salaries and wages of field
staff would be introduced. This would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (para 4.02 (c)). Further measures, along the lines specified
above, to increase staff motivation would be considered during project



- 18 -
implementation and in consideration of actual increase in forestry revenue.
By September 1 of each year, the FD and GWD would each submit to IDA for
review its rationale for revision and proposal for adjustment of its salary
and incentive structure. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations (para 4.01 (k)). The independent authority as suggested in
option (i) could be considered when the forestry fees are adequate to
comfortably finance such an entity. The experience of other countries with
autonomous and evaluated structure would also then be reviewed and
evaluated by PPMEU.
(iv) Funding
2.39      All forestry institutions suffer from inadequate and irregular
funding. While the project would relieve some of these funding constraints
during its implementation period, particularly on capital investment, the
post project annual cost, as a result of project initiatives, would
increase considerably from about US$3.3 million to US$6.0 million. These
have to be met either by forestry fees and/or GOG budgetary allocations, if
the activities and services provided by these institutions are to be
maintained at a meaningful level. Since salaries are usually paid by GOG,
to ensure adequate and regular financing of operational expenses, it is
important that collected forestry fees be deposited into the existing,
although presently dormant Forestry Fund and be used to finance that FD
cost for which timely release of funds is delayed but the expenditures are
included in the approved budget. The Forestry Fund would operate a
separate bank account into which collected forestry fees would be
deposited, from which the FD would be able to draw for operational
expenditures, as and when needed. If budgetary allocations are timely and
adequate, the collected forestry fees would be used in agreement between
GOG and FD. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para
4.01 (a)).
(v) Ban on Log Exports
2.40      To arrest depletion of the forest and to promote domestic value
added in Ghana's wood processing industry, the Government banned, almost a
decade ago, the exports in log form of fourteen species of trees, and more
recently, of an additional four. It does not appear that the ban has been
successful to the extent expected in either discouraging depletion of the
forest or in promoting technical and economic efficiency of the processing
industry in a manner that would ensure its long-term viability both as a
domestic producer and as an international competitor. At this juncture,
when the forestry subsector is being accorded increasing attention through
scrutiny and revision of its national forestry policy, as well as through
the proposed project, a study to review the ban as a mean for conserving
the forest and protecting the processing industry would be timely.
Accordingly, the study would be carried out and completed within the first
year of the Project. Based on this study, a long term strategy and action
plan for the domestic wood processing industry would be prepared by GOG,
and which be available for IDA, ODA and DANIDA review. The completion of



- 19 -
this study and agreed action plan would be condition of disbursement of the
second tranche of the sector reform component (para 4.03(d)).
2.41      There are two distinct issues raised by the ban, and it is
important to keep them separate: the first has to do with protection to
the industry, and, the second, with the most efficient means of providing
this protection. The basic questions that need to be addressed by the
study are whether, to what extent, and for how long the domestic wood
processing industry needs infant industry protection on the one hand, and,
on the other hand, whether this protection is best afforded by a policy
banning log exports or by an alternative policy package that would meet the
same goal but at a lower real economic cost. Answers to these questions
are indispensable to the authorities in enunciating a long term strategy,
urgently needed. for the wood processing industry in terms of its planned
capacity and efficient utilization. This strategy would, in turn, have
crucial implications for the best use of the annual allowable cut that
would optimize value added and foreign exchange earnings.
G.   Donor Activities
2.42      Project assistance to the forestry sector is being provided by a
number of donors. The more important among them are:
(i) The British Overseas Development Administration (ODA) supported
the rehabilitation of the timber industry by making available a
LStg 9.0 million line of credit between 1984 and 1986 for the
purchase of logging and savmilling equipment. Similarly, the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is financing the
purchase of forestry equipment to the value of Can $4.9 million.
(ii) Following FAO's project, Development of Forest Energy Resources
in Ghana (GHA/741013), under which some 200,000 ha of forest in
16 reserves were inventoried during the period 1980-82, the
British ODA financed the current inventory project under its
bilateral aid program. The ODA project, which commenced in
October 1985, is expected to cost LStg 1,460,000 and cover
500,000 ha of tropical high forest by its completion date in
January 1989. Field work has been completed on about two thirds
of this area to date.
(iii)  A number of small but potentially important rural forestry
projects are being implemented or planned in the Northern and
Upper East Regions. The ODA is financing a research project on
the establishment of community forests in the northern savanna.
Canada's Northern Region Rural Integrated Development Programme
(NORRIP) includes a forestry component for the establishment of
farmlvillage forests in the northern savanna. Under its
Technical Cooperation Programme, FAO is providing assistance
(TCP/GHA/4507 (A); US$20,000) for the establishment of an
Agroforestry Unit in the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 20 -
(iv) The forestry sector benefits from two World Food Program (WFP)
activities; (a) US$9.25 million to provide all FD and GWD staff
with basic rations to support PD's forest plantation program by
acting as an incentive, reducing absenteeism and increasing
productivity; and (b) US$41.5 million to provide about 16,000
workers in the private and state-owned timber industries with
basic rations to increase incentive and productivity.
(v) The Swedish Agency for International Technical and Economic
Cooperation (Beredningen for Internationellt Tekniskt Samarbete -
BITS), which was instrumental in financing together with IDA the
successful Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1436-Gi).
H.   IDA's Role
2.43      For the past several years, IDA has helped Ghana to implement
projects and programs designed to increase production and export earnings.
Based on lessons derived from earlier experience and past project
implementation, IDA's approach is focusing ons (i) improving incentives
and economic environment to reverse the steady deterioration in economic
performance from 1970 to about 1983, and establish a sustainable economic
growth; (ii) rehabilitating infrastructure; and (iii) streamlining
institutions. This is in line with the Government Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) which was introduced in April 1983 and is being supported by
a series of IDA-financed projectslprograms. IDA's role has been to help
Government rehabilitate productive assets, lay the basis for sustaining
growth, and nobilize and coordinate donors' aid in support of a market and
export-oriented strategy.
2.44      In support of the ERP, IDA has financed two Import Reconstruction
Credit, two Export Rehabilitation Credits (one for Technical Assistance)
and one Structural Adjustment Credit. These macro level operations are
being complemented by sector level operationss the Industrial Sector
Adjustment Credit; rehabilitation projects in public infrastructure (roads,
power, ports), health and education, agricultural services, cocoa,
transportation, and now the proposed forestry project.
III. The Proiect
A.   Project Origin
3.01      The Government of Ghana has requested IDA to extend its economic
support by funding a forestry project with focus on institutional building
and forest management. The project was proposed in the Forestry Sector
Review undertaken in 1986. The review recommended two core programs: (i)
forest management and control, including basic reforms in forestry fees and
concession policies; and (ii) rural forestry. These developments were to
be supported by the immediate rehabilitation of forestry research and
improvement of forestry education and training, and the strengthening of
key functions of the MMIR as the major thrust of a medium-term strategy.



- 21 -
The proposed project was identified and prepared by an FAO/ODA team,
through the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program.
B.   Obiectives
3.02      The project aims at sharpening the focus of policy programs
through: (i) managing industrial forestry production and export earnings
in accordance with sustained yield policy; (ii) promoting conservation and
tree planting on farms to counteract fuelwood shortage and ecological
deterioration; and (iii) strengthening the structural base of the sector
and its institutions to enable them to carry out the necessary policy
reforms, increase revenue generation, improve protection and management of
the forest and wildlife resources, and lay the foundations for developing a
methodology to quantify environmental and ecological benefits. These goals
would be achievpd through (i) provision of technical assistance in
institution-building and improving management of the high forest,
especially as regards the very considerable logging waste; (ii) development
and implementation of a rural forestry program with special emphasis on
priority areas in the savanna zones including Upper East, Upper West,
Northern, Greater Accra, Eastern and Volta Regions; and (iii) the
implementation and reactivation of forestry education and research.
C.   Rationale for IDA Involvement
3.03      If forestry is to maintain its role in the economy, it is
important that sustained yield management be carried out effectively. In
addition, without a sustained yield approach to forest management, there is
considerable -isk that the resource base would be significantly eroded in
some agro-climatic zones within a period of 25-30 years, particularly due
to the recent upsurge in industry. Unless counter measures are taken,
fuelwood shortages will increase and there will be a national fuelwood
deficit towards the end of the century. If unchecked, the gradual
disappearance of trees will pose a threat to long-term agriculture
development in particular, and the environment in general. The project's
main justification would be to establish the importance of sustained yield
management and to initiate activities to conserve the resource base while
improving the data base and the detailed analysis to develop a sound
long-term policy and strategy. This is in line with the recent GOG
initiative, supported by the Bank, in establishing the Environment Action
Plan (EAP) Task Force to update policy, adjust strategy and develop action
plans to tackle environmental issues.
3.04      IDA's involvement is important because it would encourage Govern-
ment to focus on important strategy issues and ensure policy reforms in the
sector as specified in the Forestry Sector Review. Furthermore, the
Government has indicated its desire to develop a comprehensive National
Forest Strategy which wou..d provide the basis for the future management and
use of its forest resource. It has turned to IDA not only to provide
external funding for the proposed project, but in order to coordinate with
other donors and to obtain experience and advice in these areas based on



- 22 -
IDA's and Bank's exposure to similar situations elsewhere in Africa and
other parts of the world.
D.   The Project Area
3.05      Project initiatives would have impact on nine of ten Regions in
the country. While the management component would concentrate on the
Tropical High Forest in the following 5 regions: Brong-Ahafo, Ashanti,
Western, Eastern and Central Regions, the Rural Forestry component would
include selected districts in the following savanna zone regionss Upper
East, Upper West. Northern, Greater Accra, Volta and Eastern Regions.
E.   Project Design and Choice of Components
3.06      An important feature of the project is the quick disbursing
component. Its main purpose is to initiate sector policy reforms within
the first eighteen months of implementation, and thereby complement
Government's ongoing efforts at macroeconomic adjustment. The forestry
sector would as a result increase its contribution to value added, reduce
the drain on the government budget and sustain its support to the balance
of payments. In fact, when the policy reforms are fully implemented it is
estimated that the sector's GDP growth would be accelerated, that forest
revenue would rise sharply from the present low level of US$200,000
equivalent to US$10.0 million equivalent, and that export earnings would be
maintained at the present US$100 million and could be higher, even within
the present annual allowable cut of 1.1 n3, on account of reduced wastage
both at the logging and processing stages. Without the proposed reforms,
however, it is almost certain that foreign exchange earnings would be
reduced sharply by mid-1995. Moreover, given the rapid pace of resource
depletion, the adverse effect on the environment could be serious well
before the end of the century.
3.07      While the project would encourage efficiency gains within the
sector through sustained yield management, reduction of logging waste,
institutional strengthening, and better protection and conservation of the
forest resource, it is the sector's policy reforms that would sustain and
reinforce these gains in the long run. The basic thrust of the reform
program is to create within the forestry sector an atmosphere of healthy
competion and optimal technical and economic efficiency brought about by a
greater role of the market forces, and at the time protect the environment
and conserve the resource base of the forestry sector. Accordingly, this
sector reform component is vital in setting the tone and policy vnvironment
that would enable the forestry sector to maximize value added, budgetary
resources and foreign exchange earnings and so also to enhance the
Government's overall and serious efforts at policy reform and macro
adjustment.
3.08      The existing timber resources of the high forest zone in Ghana
would, if managed on a sustained-yield basis, provide an annual allowable
cut currently estimated at 1.1 million m3, which would be sufficient to
meet the country's needs of industrial wood for domestic use and maintain



- 23 -
exports in the foreseeable future. However, with the accelerated and
inadequately controlled exploitation that is going on, exploitative mining
of the resource is inevitable unless early steps are taken to improve
forest management through better planning and strengthening of the FD's
field operations. Forest management must, therefore, necessarily consti-
tute a core component of the proposed project.
3.09      In the non-industrial rural forestry sector, the requirements of
fuelvood and poles already exceed the sustainable supply in certain
localities and this is leading to steady depletion of the resource
accompanied by serious soil degradation. This is particularly true of
savanna areas in the Northern and Upper East Regions and in peri-urban
areas. Projections for increasing population and depletion of fuelvood
resources show that, even at the national level, a negative fuelvood
balance w.ild be reached within a decade unless remedial measures are
taken. The introduction of a rural forestry program to promote tree
planting at community and individual farm levels would, thus, be another
core area for investment in the forestry sector.
3.10      It would be impossible to implement either of the above core
components as enclave development programs without rehabilitation and
strengthening of the FD and its management capability. The policy formula-
tion, planning, monitoring and evaluation capabilities of the MLNR would
also have to be built up to ensure that the sectoral development programs
are implemented within a consistent and comprehensive policy framework.
Game and wildlife conservation and management, which shares a common
resource base with forestry should logically be strengthened at the same
time. A component for strengthening of forestry sector institutions would,
therefore, be an essential adjunct to the two core components mentioned
above. The other main institutions, the Forest Products Inspection Bureau
(FPIB) and the Timber Exports Development Board (TEDB) are better
adequately funded and function reasonably well but do need some project
support.
3.11      In order to maintain the long-term soundness of the sector, it is
necessary to ensure that the forestry programs have a sound technical basis
and that adequate trained personnel would be available to implement them.
Components to re-activate the institutions dealing with forestry reqearch
and forestry training and education should, therefore, also be included in
the project.
3.12      Existing forest plantations are badly managed and their extent
and condition are not known. Accordingly, no further investments in new
Government-run forest plantations are warranted without first taking stock
of and rehabilitating the existing plantations. These steps are envisaged
under the forest management component.
3.13      The forest industry has received considerable support under the
World Bank's Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP) aud other aid programs.
As a result its financial viabilit7 has improved and so has its capacity
utilization. Given the present annual allowable cut of 1.1 million m3,



- 24 -
there is sufficient over-capacity in the industry to cope with foreseeable
production levels, the only requirement being quality improvement and a
shift to products with greater value added which should be carried out by
the private sector. other constraints such as the congestion at Takoradi
Port and the poor state of the roads and railways are being gradually
overcome through activities initiated under externally assisted projects
(ERP, Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance Project, Railway Rehabilitation
Project, etc.). Further support in these areas under the forestry project
would, therefore, be neither necessary nor appropriate, given management
limitation.
F.   Summary Project Description
3.14      The project would be implemented over six years and would
comprise the following components: (i) Sector Reform which includes
changes in forest revenue policy, concession conduct and the introduction
of a free-market mechanism into the concession allocation procedures,
improvement in staff incentive to promote the recruitment of the required
professional and technical staff, and rationalization of the timber trade
policy; (ii) Forest Management which includes accelerating the natural and
industrial forest inventory in and outside the reserves, updating the
annual allowable cut, preparation of working plans and harvesting
schedules, reduction of logging waste, and rehabilitation of existing
forest plantations; (iii) Rural Forestry which involves the strengthening
of the Forestry Department (FD) to carry out planting and protection of
trees on land outside forest reserves by the rural population, seedling
production, intensification of extension (in collaboration with the
Ministry of Agriculture) and public education on rural forestry, and
agroforestry package demonstrations; (iv) Strengthening Forestry Sector
Institutions which includes the establishment of a policy formulation,
planning, monitoring and evaluation unit in the Ministry of Land and
Natural Resources (HLNR); setting up a mechanism for collecting and
monitoring relev.uat data to enable the economic valuation of trees and
forest, and subsequent development of a methodology to quantify
environmental and ecological benefits; reorganization of the FD; and
provision for basic infrastructure (offices, staff housing, transportation
and equipment), technical assistance and training needed to reactivate the
FD and the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD); (v) Forestry Education and
Training by building up the capacities and capabilities of the main
forestry education and training institutions, the Institute of Renewable
Natural Resources (IRNR) and the Sunyani Forestry School (SFS); (vi) Adap-
tive Research which includes the rehabilitation of the Forest Production
Research Institute (FPRI) to provide guidance for management of the natural
forest resource, fc:estry for rural development mainly agroforestry and
utilization of forest production.
G. Detailed Features
a.        Sector Policy Reforms
3.15      The sector reform component aims at facilitating the acceleration



- 25 -
of the implementation of the policies in the forestry sector. It would
include reforms in areas which are critical to the future efficiency,
productivity, viability, and sustainability of the forestry sector. These
reforms encompass: (i) forest revenue poiicies (para 2.34 and 2.35; (ii)
rationalization of concession conduct and the introduction of a frje market
mechanism into the concession allocation procedures (paras 2.35 (b) and
2.36); (iii) improvements in staff incentives, and recruitment of
professional and technical staff (paras 2.37 and 2.38); and (iv)
rationalization of the timber trade policy (paras 2.40 and 2.41). This
component constitutes a quick disbursement credit of US$15.0 million to be
disbursed in two tranches of US$7.5 million each: the first at
effectiveness and the second, 18 months later (about mid-1990). Additional
conditions for the disbursement of the second tranche would be as follows:
(a) the royalty fees for forestry exploitation have been increased to a
level of 122, or any other agreed level of tAe respective FOB weighted
average value of the marketable logs, less logging and transportation costs
(paras 2.35 (a) and 4.03 (a)); (b) the weight granted to the concession
rent offered by applicants in the evaluation process designed to allocate
new concessions has been established at 5OZ and a firm timetable to
increase it to 602 has been agreed (para 4.03 (b)); (c) the study to assess
the rationale for promoting value added in the wood processing industry
through a ban on log exports as the appropriate policy instrument, has been
completed and action plan based on this study and the assessment of the
impact of lifting the ban and replacing it with an export tariffs on the
selected two species, has been agreed upon (para 4.03 (c)); and (d) based
on progress made, specific recommendations on further improvements in
professional and technical staff recruQtment and incentives have been
defined, (para 4.03 (c)). Details on the Reform Program policies and the
Reform Program matrix are given in Arnex 3-1 and the proposed (overnment
letter of the Sector Development Policy is given in Annex 3-2.
b.        Forest Management
3.16      The objective of this component is to improve the management of
Ghana's productive forest resources to meet domestic and export needs for
timber, fuelwood and other forest products on a sustained yield basis,
while at the same time improving the management of conservetion forests and
wildlife reserves in order to protect watersheds, endangered species and
important ecosystems. Project activities are described in Annex 3-3. Key
features of the forest management component would include:
(i) Strengthening of the Forest Department Working Plans Branch.
The project would strengthen the Planning Branch of the FD
and assist in the preparation of working plans for the 1.7
million ha of GOG controlled forest reserves. This would
enable FD to prepare harvesting schedules based on inventory
data of volume and increment, and thereby to determine a
more accurate allowable timber cut that would ensure a
sustainable supply of wood as opposed to mining of the
timber resource. The project would provide Incremental



- 26 -
field subsistence allowances, camping and field equipment
for 40 stock map field teams drawn from 23 Districts.
(ii) Forest Inventory in Reserves. The ongoing inventory would
be extended to covez all the remaining reserves in the
Tropical High Forest (THF) Zone (600,OuO ha). The inventory
would include the Wildl_fe Reserves and National Parks in
the THF. The current sampling design would continue to be
used but the sampling fraction would be adjusted according
to the composition of different forest types and the level
of accuracy needed to ensure a reliable estimate of the
volumes of commercial timber available. The project would
assume responsibility for re-measurement of 859 existing
Permanent Sample Plots and would establish 500 new sample
plots. The project would finance the salaries of the
required additional staff and full subsistence of laborers
carrying out the inventory work, 8 4WD vehicles and 5 4WD
lorries, additional camping facilities, and field and office
equipment. The project would provide for satellite imagery
and aerial photography of the project area.
(iii) Forest Inventory and Management Outside the Reserves.
Initially, satellite imagery and aerial photographs would be
provided to map the area of High Forest outside the Reserves
and subsequently a socio-economic survey of these areas
would be undertaken to provide a framework of action for the
development of management systems and forest protection
programs which involve local chiefs and farmers. The survey
would identify land tenure and tree ownership systems and
assess people's attitudes on issues of tree management using
the ownership of cocoa farms as a precedent for the
ownership of land when the forest is under participatory
local managemant. This would be followed by an inventory of
the standing volume of commercial and non-commercial species
outside FD reserves and drawing up management plans based on
the participation of local inhabitants. The project would
finance the cost of satellite imagery and aerial
photography, the salary of a local consultant to undertake
the cocio-economic survey and the salaries of the
incremental mensuration staff, 2 4WD vehicles and 2 4WD
lorries, camping , field and office equipment for the
inventory teams.
(iv) Survey and Rehabilitation of Existing Plantations. The
existing industrial forest plantations (30,000 ha) would be
mapped and a low intensity inventory would be carried out to
obtain an estimate of standing volume and of increment.
Approximately 100 Permanent Sample Plots would be
established in the major plantations. Studies would be
conducted on site requirements of main plantation species,
marketing and utilization of plantation material and the



- 27 -
economics of plantation forestry. The project would finance
salaries, field subsistence, camping equipment and transport
for the inventory and survey teams and a local consultant
for the soil analysis and mapping work. Field equipment,
tools, materials, vehicles are provided under the
sub-component (v) below.
(v)  Strengthening of the High Forest Zone Forest Mp-nagement
Department at the Regional Level, and Buffer Zone
Development Around Forest Reserves. The basic
infrastructure of the forest management services at the
regional level in the high forest zone would be built up in
order to enable them to improve their capability to monitor
logging operations, to protect the Forest Reserves and to
supervise the plantation rehabilitation program. The
project would reduce the very considerable logging waste by
(a) providing a specialist in forest management and logging,
who would assist the loggers with advice and training; (b)
promote an increase in forest fees, which would provide
increased incentive for reducing waste; and (c) introduce a
system whereby royalty fees would be charged on usable
standing timber (sale of stump) rather than on the basis of
timber removed. The project would support the development
of a fire protection and anti-encroachment program utilizing
FD staff (forest guards and forest laborers) and farmers
living adjacent to the forest reserves. The fire protection
program would include clearing and maintaining the forest
reserve boundaries where there are cut lines, planting
fruit, pole and fuelwood trees in 50 meter strips where
appropriate to establish a buffer zone and provide fruit for
people living adjacent to the reserves ,and maintaining fire
protection teams during the critical fire danger season
(January-March).
3.17      The project would finance: new buildings (9 offices and 17 staff
houses), vehicles, (23 4WD vehicles, 4 21WD lorries, 114 motorcycles and
their replacement costs and 4 4WD vehicles and 9 tractors to replace old
equipment), communications equipment, office, field and camp equipment,
nursery and plantation tools, and uniforms for Technical Officers and
Forest Guards. It would also finance 80 incremental staff and a total of
156 staff-months of technical assistance including a Forest Inventory
Specialist (30 sm), a Forest Management Specialist (48 sm), a Mensuration
Officer (30 sm), a Forest Plantation Expert (24sm), and a Botanist (24sm).
The total cost including taxes and duties of the forest management
component is estimated at US$12.7 million (o 2.7 billion), of which the
foreign exchange is about US$8.5 million or 66Z.
3.18      Orgqnization and Management.  Planning of the inventories inside
and outside forest reserves, preparation of working plans and harvesting
schedules, plantation inventory and rehabilitation would all be centered in
the Planning Section of the FD at Kumasi and would be the overall



- 28 -
responsibility cf the Planning Officer. He would be assisted by the
Inventory specialist (TA), the Forest Management Specialist (TA), the
Plantation Management specialist (TA). and the Mensuration Officer (TA).
Marking of commercial timber, control and administration of logging
operations would be the responsibility of the Regional and District
Officer.
c.        Rural Forestry
3.19      The rural forestry component would aim to promote the planting,
protection mnd management of trees on land outside forest reserves by rural
populations with the objectives of reducing the risks of environmental
degradation and increasing supplies of wood and other tree products in
deficit areas of Ghana. It would comprise two sub-components: (i)
Community Forestry, involving the promotion of village woodlots coupled
with a participatory extension program; and (ii) Agroforestry, providing
improved planting materials, training of farmers in agroforestry
techniques, extension services and agroforestry demonstrations. Support
would be given to (i) strengthening the Forest Department (FD) through the
creation of a Rural Forestry Division; (ii) improvement of FD seedling
production capabilities; (iii) intensification of extension and publicity
on rural forestry through coordination of agriculture and forestry
extension; (iv) strengthening of MOA's agroforestry capability; and
(v) development of demonstrations of agroforestry packages. The project
would also initiate rehabilitation of forest reserves in densely populated
areas of the savanna zones.
3.20      Depletion of tree cover in Ghana has an impact on agricultural
productivity through exposure of soils to erosion and on the availability
of wood and other tree products. Replenishment of tree cover is necessary
to redress these problems, but this cannot be achieved by government
plantations alone. Involvement of rural populations in planting,
protection and management of trees on and close to farms is considered to
have the greatest potential impact on increasing tree stocks. However,
traditional attitudes, farming practices, and some government regulations
concerning tree ownership, among others, constrain adoption of such
practices.
3.21      The Forest Department is considered to be the agency most suited
to taking a lead role in promoting rural forestry, but it needs both
strengthening and a better definition of its role in protection and
management of forest reserves. Better coordination with other government
and non-government organizations with potential roles in rural forestry is
also needed, especially with MOA.
3.22      Project activities are described in Annex 3-4.  These would focus
primarily on 5 savanna zone regions as well as high forest zone regions
where there is encroachment on forest reserves or significant areas of
remaining natural forest outside reserves. Key features include:



- 29 -
(i) socio-economic surveys to determine attitudes towards trees
and tree planting, to gauge the likely acceptance of seed-
lings of different types, and to monitor and evaluate the
project impact.
(ii) upgrading of existing nurseries and establishment of new
nurseries and the production and distribution of about 7
million seedlings of vrarious types which should result in a
plantation equivalent of about 3,000 ha. In order to
encourage farmers to plant the seedlings they would be
provided free initially. However, the situation would be
reviewed annually with a view to introducing X cost recovery
system;
(iii) extension and motivation to popularize tree planting and
management and to provide appropriate advice for technical
support to the Ministry of Agriculture extension services
and selected Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) such as the
Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA), Amasachina,
and the Ghanaian National Volunteers Organization;
(iv) monitoring and evaluation of rural forest activities and
impact;
Cv) establishment of 40 demonstration areas in 14 districts,
with a total area of about 80 ha to provide visual compari-
sons of different approaches to agroforestry and other forms
of farm tree planting, the agroforestry packages, would
initially be based on the trials by FPiI, and by IITA in
Ibadan, Nigeria;
(vi) rehabilitation of the savanna forest reserves in densely
populated areas to bring into production unutilized land,
especially for fuelwood and poles and securing long-term
tree cover;
(vii) a study on measures to reduce encroachment into the forest
reserves by farmers for agriculture and in particular
concentration on buffer zones. The purpose of the study
would be to identify and prepare proposals for intensifying
sustainable farming in the areas adjacent to forest reserves
and to provide people living in those areas with an
alternative to further encroachment. The end product could
be an agriculture/rural development project suitable for
BankJIDA or other agency funding.
(viii) studies of land and tree tenure laws and customs and identi-
fication of opportunities for modification and adoption to
encourage tree planting and conservation practices.



- 30 -
(ix) research support to the Forest Products Research Institute
to develop appropriate agroforestry technical packages and
activities for the different ecological zones;
3.23      Specific project inputs would include transportation facilities,
equipment, civil works, 93 incremental staff, 150 staff-months of technical
assistance, and training. Details can be found in Annex 3-4 and Working
Paper 2. The total cost including taxes and duties of the rural forestry
component is estimated at US$9.1 million (¢ 2.0 billion) of which the
foreign exchange is about US$5.4 million or 60X. The breakdown by
sub-components is as follows:
Local          Foreign          Total
------------(US$ Million)-----------
Community Forestry         2.5             2.7             5.2
Agroforestry               1.2              2.7            3.9
Total                 3.7             5.4             9.1
3.24      Organization and Management.  The responsibility for implementing
this component would rest with (a) MOA through its Crop Services Department
(CSD) for the Agroforestry sub-component; and (b) MLNR through the Forestry
Department for the Community Forestry sub-component: (i) An Agroforestry
Unit would be set up within the CSD. The Unit would consist of (1) the
Head of Unit; (2) a technical section to deal with farming systems for
designing demonstrations appropriate to the various ecological zones; (3) a
motivation and extension section to impart extension techniques and
messages to farmers in order to promote the concept of agro-forstry widely
as well as to train farmers in agroforestry techniques; and (4) a planning,
monitoring and evaluation section to plan and monitor agroforestry
activies; and (ii) A Rural Forestry Division, headed by a Deputy Chief
Conservator of Forests, would be established within FD. This would have
three sections each headed by a Senior Conservator of Forests; viz a
Technical Sectiou, a Planning Monitoring and Evaluation Section and a
Motivation and Education Sectior. The division would have a supporting and
coordinating rcle for rural forestry activities in the regions. At the
regional level, the existing FD line structure would remain the same but
the regional and district forest offices would be strengthened by the
appointment of rural forestry officers. At the district level, there would
be close cooperation between MOA and FD technical officers. Because of the
pilot nature of the project there would be a phasing in of activities in
the regions and districts and all 14 proposed districts would not be
included until the fourth year of the project. At the field level, PD
would provide forest tree seedlings and community forestry support, while
MOA would provide fruit tree seedlings and extension services to individual
farmers. To ensure that the latter receive information also regarding
forest trees, PD would second one professional forest officer and two
technicians on the central level, and a technical officer on each of the



- 31 -
14 districts where the agro-forestry sub-component would be carried out to
MOA's extension service, to: ti) instruct the MOA extension staff in rural
forestry (why; what species are suitable for what purposes and on what
sites; methods of planting, weeding, fire protection, harvesting,
charcoal-making, marketing); (ii) ensure that the right messages in this
respect go out to the farmers; and (iii) monitor progress, especially as
regards seedling distribution and survival. This would be a condition of
effectiveness (para 4.02 (d). The Peace Corps and USAID have indicated
interest in participating in the implementation of the rural forestry
component. Their volunteers would then be integrated in FD, and their
activities would be financed through the project's funding of the latter.
Some NGOs would also participate on this basis, at the discretion of the
Government.
d.        Strengthening of Forestry Sector Institutions
3.25      This component would include the strengthr.iing of the following
institutions: (i) the Ministry of Land and Natural Resources (MLNR); (ii)
the Forestry Department (FD); (iii) the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA); (iv)
the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD); (v) the Forest Products Inspection
Bureau (FPIB); and (vi) the Timber Export Development Board (TEDBI.
3.26      MLNR would be strengthened by establishing a Policy Formulation,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PPMEU) for which the project
would provide transportation, 85 staff-months technical assistance (Sector
Planner, Environmental Economist, Ethnobotanist and other technical
assistance for research on economic benefits of forest reservation),
training and financing for 8 incremental staff. The PPMEU would have
overall responsibility for formulating the policy framework for the sector
and the strategy for implementing this policy. Specifically, this unit
would: (i) develop a land use policy and strategy for its implementation;
(ii) set forestry fees and royalties according to the principles stated in
para 2.35; (iii) finalize and ensure the implementation of the concession
allocation procedures according to the principles stated in para 2.36; (iv)
keep under regular review the extent and means of protection to the forest
industry; (v) monitor gathering practices and coordinate data collection
and research on MFPs, for this purpose the project would yield data on
consumption, trade and typical yields of MFPs, much needed for a better
assessment of the economic value of forests, and as a basis for policies
targeting the use and production of MFPs. Details on these actions are
given in Working Paper 4.
3.27      FD would be strengthened through a reorganization combined with
transportation, equipment, civil works, 48 staff-months of technical
assistance (monitoring specialist and financial controller), 4 incremental
staff, training and additional senior staff (Deputy Chief Conservator, a
Forest Economist, a Principal Conservator of Forests and a Statistician).
3.28      The responsibility for the organization and management of the FD
would be with the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF), who would be assisted
by four Deputy Chief Conservators of Forests (DCCF), whose new functions
would be as followst



- 32 -
(a)  Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests (Administration and Finance),
DCCF (A&F), in charge of administration, personnel, finance and
stores.
(b) Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests (Development) - DDCF (D) in
charge of reforestation, management and rehabilitation of planta-
tions, and special projects relating to these activities.
(c) Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests (Management and Working
Plans) - DCCF (M & WP) in charge of the natural forest
management, inventory, forest protection, law enforcement,
interaction between PD, Lands commission and the Lands
Department, the Concession Unit, and the drawing office.
(d) Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests (Rural Forestry, Research,
Education and Traiaing) - DCCF (R,E &RF) in cha    of trial plots
in plantations, intsraction between FD and FPRI     rdination
between FD and AFU in MOA, the forestry school, it. service
training, agroforestry and community forestry.
The proposed FD organizational chart is given in Annex 3-5.
3.29      A new Planning and Monitoring Unit would be created under the CCF
and be manned by a three member team comprising a Principal Conservator of
Forest, an Economist and a Statistician. They would be assisted by the
PlanninglMonitoring Specialist.
3.30      GWD.  The objectives of this sub-component would be to:  (i)
enhance effective management of key protected areas and maintain them as
viable reservoirs of biological diversity; (ii) obtain information on
management options which may help to maintain biological diversity, bush
meat supply and minor forest products outside protected areas; and (iii)
strengthen conservation management training. Activities to achieve the
above objectives includet (i) provision of technical assistance to upgrade
the technical capacity of the department; (ii) strengthening of the
existing four divisions of the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD), and the
six Game Reserve areas (covering 568,840 ha in 4 separate management
units); (iii) establishment of an inventory team to conduct surveys of
wildlife resources in priority protected areas, analysis of problems of
enforcement of wildlife regulations, identification of special needs of
threatened species of flora and fauna, revision of key species site
management plans, and the design of a monitoring programe for threatened
species. This would include technical assistance, survey and mapping
materials, transport and field equipment; and (iv) staff development by
financing training opportunities for GWD staff at Ghanaian institutions
(Institute of Renewable Natural Resources, Kumasi, the Forestry
Department's School for Forestry at Sunyani) and upgrade the GWD Mole
Wildlife School to enable short in-service training courses to be
developed. The Project would provide fort (i) construction of laboratory
field stations, office accommodation, living quarters, research facilities
and game protection camps; (ii) rehabilitation of the head office building



- 33 -
and refurbishing of the buildings at Mole National Park and other field
stations; (iii) transportation, laboratory and communications equipment;
(iv) camp, field, and office equipment and furniture; (v) in-country
training and books and journals; and (vi) technical assistance for
inventory and monitoring program.
3.31      The orzanization and management of the GWD would be under the
Chief Game and Wildlife Officer assisted by three Deputy Chief Game and
Wildlife Officers who are in charge of three Divisions (e.g., Administra-
tion, Research and Conservation Areas). The Deputy in Charge of
Administration would oversee the wildlife regional offices and the Mole
Wildlife School. The Deputy in charge of Research would administer the
Game Ranch, Zoological Gardens Research and Faunal surveys, while the
Deputy, Conservation Areas, would administer the National Parks, strict
Nature Reserves, Sanctuaries and Game Production reserves. Two other
units, namely the Budget and Planning/Monitoring Unit and the Trade,
Utilization Law and International Conventions Unit would be located in the
Head Office.
3.32      In view cf the dwindling forest resources outside the forest
reserves and the decrease in wildlife population, the GWD would take
immediate remedial measures to consolidate the present network of protected
areas and improve game management in the areas outside parks and reserves.
The GWD would by June 30, 1989 initiate action to amend the Ghana Wild
Animal Preservation Act of 1961 end the regulations framed thereunder to
define essential conditions such as the right to hunt in relation to land
ownership or land tenure and different hunting activities as for example,
subsistence, commerce or research. Amendments would also be made to the
main Act in respect of law enforcement, where neither the duties of
wildlife officers are defined nor the capacities of national parks and
other conservation areas. Amendments to the Act should incorporate
provisions for conservation beyond the reserves and national parks.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01 (1)).
More details on project activities are given in Annex 3-6.
3.33      Timber Export Development Board (TEDB) and Forest Products
Inspection Bureau (FPIB). As a short-term program of restoring a healthy
logging base and reorganizing marketing and inspectorate institutions in
the forestry sectors is almost completed, the project would support the
goveranent's intention to concentrate on the development of long-term
policies aimed at putting in place appropriate forest utilization
strategies, strengthening the overall forest management capabilities, and
fostering a greater degree of integration in the sector. The basic
objective of these strategies would be to maximize productivity of the
forest resource. The first phase of the medium term program would include
the training of supporting institutional staff, upgrading of industry
skills, the identification and preparation of projects promising high rates
of utilization, and studies into the development and implementation of
models of integrated agroforestry and wood processing at the community
level as a means of enhancing social and economic advancement of the rural
population. The project would provide 120 staff-months of technical



- 34 -
assistance (para 3.52 (vi)) to improve the management of TEDB and FPIB in
improring quality standards and promoting export of forest products.
3.34      Total cost including taxes and duties of this component is
estimated at US$11.7 million (¢ 2.5 billion), of which the foreign exchange
is US$7.8 million or 672.
e.        Education and Tr ining
3.35      The education and training component would provide support to the
Institute of Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR) and the School of Forestry,
Sunyani (SFS), which train foresters and wildlife management staff for jobs
in Government and the private sector. The objective of this component is
to improve the quality and relevance of the training at these institutions
to manage and protect Ghana's forestry and wildlife rescurces and to
increase the number of trained staff available to work in the natural
resource sector. Currently, in both the GOG Forestry and Wildlife
Departments there is a critical manpower shortage at all levels of 200 and
275 of professional and technical Annex 3-7), respectively. Due to (i)
insufficient number of students interested in studying forestry; (ii) a
limit on growth of the education institutions, and (iii) absorption of
professional staff by the private sector, this shortage of professional and
technical staff could be resolved, even with project initiatives only in
about year 2000. It is estimated that the annual recruitment in the public
sector would most likely be as follows: (i) about 20 professionals of which
12-14 by FD and 6-8 by GWD; and (ii) about 25-30 technical staff of which
15-18 by FD and 10-12 by GIWD. To ensure strict implementation progress
this would be reviewed annually as well as at the mid-term review (para
3.51). Specific recommendations on further improvements in professional
and technical staff recruitment and incentives would be submitted for IDA
review before the disbursement of the second tranche of the sector reform
component (para 4.03 (d)).
3.36      The Institute of Renewable Natural Resources (IRNR).  IRNR
provides training for both professionals and subprofessionals and offers a
3-year BSc degree in Renewable Natural Resources, a 2-year Diploma in
Renewable Natural Resources and a 2-year M.Sc. in Wood Technology and
Industrial Management. The IRNR would give greater focus to agroforestry,
and forestry for local community development and wildlife management with
support from th.: project. It would increase staff levels from the 1987
level of 9 lecturers to 20 staff in 1990, and to expand its enrollment to
135 B.Sc. students and 50 diploma students. In addition, a special pro'ram
would be developed for agriculturists and botanists to be recruited by the
sector institutions and be trained as professional foresters. At present,
IRNR is understaffed and there are 27 permanent positions which are vacant.
Although IRNR is sometimes able to supplement its staff with visiting
lectures from FPRI, UST and FD, and although this practice should be
continued, there is a need for a more sound solution.
3.37      The project would finance staff development and training,
technical assistance, civil works, transportation, equipment and curriculum



- 35 -
development. Total cost including taxes and duties of this sub-component
is estimated at US$6.1 million (p1.3 billion) of which foreign exchange is
US$3.8 million or 622.
3.38      In-Service Training and Rehabilitation of the School of Forestry,
Sunyani (SFS). The training branch of the Forestry Department (FD) is
responsible for the basic training of the FD's technical staff. This
program has been carried out since 1953 under the auspices of a three-year
technical officers (TO) training program at SFS. Major gaps in FD's
activities at SFS over the past fifteen years have been the absence of a
comprehensive in-service training program, the establishment of a training
program for forest guards and forest laborers, and updating of the SFS
training curriculum to meet forestry sector management problems including
staff development programs. This component would include the activities
outlined below: (i) improvement in the three-year training program for
technical officers by introducing a revised curriculum and refresher
courses for technical and senior technical FD officers of four months and
one month respectively. The refresher course for technical officers would
include work study, forest inventory, planning and costing, plantation
management, and agroforestry, while the senior technical officers course
would be oriented to business management. Particular attention would be
given to rural sociology and extension training for technical officers;
(Li) a six-month forest guard course would be established which would
instruct forest guards in field work (e.g. nursery establishment and
maintenance, surveying, enumeration and measurement of stands and felled
timber), fire protection and boundary protection to prevent encroachment.
The course would place particular emphasis on extension training and
community relations. It would teach forest guards to work with farmers
living around the forest reserves in the establishment of protective
forest buffer zones; and (iii) staff development would include fellowships,
study tours, overseas M.Sc. training and in-country training.
3.39      The project would finance construction of new buildings,
transportation, camp and field equipment, 6 incremental staff, technical
assistance and training. Total cost including taxes and duties of this
sub-component is estimated at US$2.5 million (¢0.5 billion) of which
foreign exchange is US$1.6 million or 66Z.
3.40      Organization and Management.  While SFS wouli be under the
auspices of PD and the responsibility for its operation would rest with the
Chief Conservator of Forests, the IRNR would be managed by its Director who
would be assisted by four departmental heads. The Director would be
responsible to the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Science and
Technology (UST). By June 30, 1989, a Management Board of Directors would
be established to review annually the relevance of the curriculum and staff
development programs to the natural resource protection and management
requirements of Ghana and to make recommendations to the Director regarding
modifications. It would also review the adequacy of budgetary allocations
and make recommendations to UST and GOG. Membership of the Board would be
broadly based and comprise representatives from MLNR, PD, UST, the forest
industry, FC, and NGO conservation organizations. Also, by June 30, 1989,



- 36 -
an Academic Committee (AC) would be established by the Board to review and
revise:the IRNR curriculum with regard to national priorities (eg., fire
management, forest reserve buffer protection, conservation reserves, minor
forest product markets) and would meet at least once a year. The AC would
comprise representatives from FD, GWD, UST, PPRI, TEDB, FPIB, member of the
professional associations of the forest industry, and would be chaired by
the IRNR Director. Assurances to the establishment and the composition of
the IRNR Management Board and its Academic Committee were obtained at
negotiations (para. 401 (m)).
3.41      Total cost including operating cost of $1.8 million of this
component is estimated at US$8.6 million (O 1.8 billion), of which US$5.4
million is foreign exchange or 63Z.
f.        Research
3.42      The project would provide support for the rehabilitation of the
Forest Products Research Institute (FPRI) to strengthen its capacity to
determine priorities and implement a research program relevant to Ghana's
forestry research needs. FPRI would carry out research with special focus
on: (1) management of the natural forest resource; (2) forestry for rural
development; and (3) utilization of forest products including the use of
decondary species.
3.43      FRPI has three major priorities.  The first one is to ensure that
the forest resource base of the nation is sustained and improved.
Accordingly, under the project, research would be directed towards
regeneration techniques, with particular emphasis on the following: (i)
silviculture and regeneration of THF including enrichment planting
techniques which are less expensive than man-made forests and which ensure
that preferred species are planted and tended; (ii) rural forestry
including appropriate agroforestry technical packages for local farming
communities, and research to ensure that soils are enriched by planting of
soil improving species like Acacias, other leguminous species and
Casuarina; and (iii) afforestation species trials to ensure the raising of
specific plants for specific end-uses, nursery techniques, fertilization,
and protection from fungi and insects. The second priority area is the
reduction of waste in logging and saw-milling, the increased utilization of
the lesser known species, including research on their physical and
mechanical properties and the popularization of these secondary species for
specific end-uses, and work related to wood seasoning and preservation.
The third priority would be research into forest products other than timber
with a view to enhancing the income of the rural people. Hence,
invectigations would be carried out on gums, resins, tannin, dyes, oils,
and other minor forest products.
3.44      Key features of the research activities include:
(i) Forestry Research Review and Research Planning Study. The
study would review the past research program of FPRI
including that of the 12 field research stations for the



- 37 -
industrial and rural forestry sectors and would establish
future national forestry sector research plans based on
commissioned work program and national priorities.
(ii) Strengthening of Rural Forestry Research: develop
appropriate rural forestry research including agroforestry
research for different ecological zones focussed on
identifying multipurpose tree and shrub species that could
be incorporated into agroforestry systems; identify the
optimal tree crops/food crops mix that would minimize site
degradation and maximize gains; and support the development
of suitable agroforestry systems as alternatives to
traditional shifting cultivation.
(iii) Institutional support: build new research facilities
including laboratories and administration offices, and
provide transport and supply equipment.
(iv) Staff development and support: finance overseas training,
technical assistance and in courtry training.
(v) Strengthening THF Research: through technical assistance
provide a THF silviculturalist, a tree breeder and an
agroforestry specialist to develop a research program in
their respective fields.
3.45      Project inputs would include civil works. transportation,
equipment, technical assistance and training. Total component cost is
estimated at US$7.5 million (O 1.6 billion), of which US$3.9 million is
fore±ei" exchange or 52Z.
3.46      Organization and Management.  The FPRI would be released from
supervision of the Forestry Commission and be organized as a
semi-autonomous institute under the auspices of the Ministry of Land and
Natural Resources. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations
(para. 4.01 (n)). Close association with CSIR would enable FPRI to
establish closer cooperation with related national scientific research
organizations. In particular this would provide closer linkages with the
Crop Research Institute and the Building Research Institute (both under
CSIR) which are located in Fumesua. Proximity to the Crop Research
Institute would provide improved possibilities for cooperation in
agroforestry for which the FPRI has taken the lead responsibility. All
component activities would be brought under the Director of FPRI who would
be assisted by the Divisional Heads of Silviculture and Management,
Protection, Utilization. Each Divisional program carries out specific
projects which are reviewed quarterly by a Research Advisory Committee
currently appointed by the FC. The committee includes the CCF, Director of
GWD, a representative of the IRNR and FC, representatives of the forest
industrv and FPRI staff. For purposes of inter-ministerial coordination,
in addition to the existing Research Advisory Committee and the National
Agroforestry Committee, three Technical Working Groups would be set up



- 38 -
including FPRI staff and senior technical personnel of the FD, the forest
industries and MOA. These Technical Working Groups would hold an annual
conference at which the results of the previous years' research and the
proposals for the upcoming years would be discussed. FRPI would move
toward commissioned research, inviting the Forestry Department, the TEDB
and the forest industry to identify high-priority research topics. FPRI
would prepare costed proposals for studying specific topics with a
relatively short life (e.g., 3 years) and would identify and appoint
national and international sponsors for these proposals.
H. Project Costs and Financing
3.47      Of the total project costs estimated at US$64.6 million
(equivalent to 013.8 billion), US$46.0 million or 712 are foreign exchange
costs. Total project costs include a US$15.0 million (03.2 billion) quick
disbursing component to support the sector policy reforms and finance
imported equipment and tools for the forestry and the timber sectors.
Project costs excluding the quick disbursing component are estimated at
US$49.6 million (equivalent to 010.6 billion), US$31.0 million or 63Z are
foreign exchange costs. If taxes and dutie[ are excluded, total project
costs would be US$46.5 million (09.9 billion). The base costs obtained at
appraisal in FebruarylMarch 1988 have been adjusted to reflect prices
prevailing at negotiations (October 1988). The costs includes (i) a
physical contingencies amounting to 6.62 of base costs on all items; and
(ii) price contingencies calculated on base cost plus physical
contingencies and compounded annually. Contingencies also include
adjustment from negotiations to project start-up scheduled for February
1989.
3.48      The project cost estimate, excluding the quick dlsbursing
component and including duties and taxes, of US$49.5 million is based on
the following assumptions on the domestic and international rates of
inflation and the exchange rate. Domestic inflation tates are estimated at
10 for 1989, 81 for 1990, 72 for 1991 and 52 per annum for the last three
years of the project 1992, 1993 and 1994. International inflation rates,
given by the Bank for calculating average price contingency allowances, are
31 in 1989 and 42 per year from 1990 through 1994. An exchange rate of ¢
200 to one US dollar through 1988. During 1989 and 1990, the first and
second years of the project, due to further likely devaluation of the Cedi,
the exchange rate assumed was 0 205 and ¢ 210, respectively, as agreed with
the IHF. Thereafter, it was assumed that this 1990 exchange rate would be
adjusted in a manner that would maintain a constant purchasing parity
between domestic and foreign goods. Total contingencies are equivalent to
about 212 of base costs or 171 of total costs. Project costs are all
incremented and summarized in Annex 3-8 in Tables 1 to 3 and detailed in
the working papers. The table below outlines the main components and their
respective costs.



-39 -
Project Costs Excluding Duties and Taxes 1/
and the US$15 Million Qui.k Disbursing Component
(including contingencies)
US$ Million
Local        Foreign       Total        Z
Forest Management               3.1           8.4         11.5        25
Rural Forestry                  3.2           5.4           8.6       18
Institutional Strengthening    3.4            7.8         11.2        24
Education and Training          2.8           5.4           8.2       18
Research                        3.0           3.9           6.9       15
Total               15.5           31.0         46.5      100
1/  Du'cies and taxes are estimated at US$3.1 million.
3.49      The proposed IDA credit of US$39.4 million represents 61Z of
total project costs (64Z of total project costs excluding duties and
taxes), and would finance 73Z of the total foreign exchange costs. The
balance of US$25.2 million would be funded as follows: ODA, 112 of total
project costs or US$7.1 million (the entire foreign exchange cost of the
Forest Management component excluding civil works and motorbikes), DANIDA,
12.92 of total project costs, or US$8.3 million comprising half of the
rural forestry, and education and training components, and the Government
of Ghana (GOG), 15.2Z of total project costs (432 of local cost), that is,
US$6.7 million plus US$3.1 million in duties and taxes. Agreements with
other cofinanciers to finance the project would be conditions for credit
effectiveness (para 4.02 (e)). During negotiations assurances were
obtained that GOG would include and provide in its annual current and
capital budgets adequate funds to finance project activities including the
non-incremental capital and recurrent cost (para 4.01 (b)). The proposed
financing plan is outlined below:
Proposed Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Local       Foreign      Total        Z
IDA                            5.9          33.5         39.4        61
ODA                              -           7.1          7.1        11
DANIDA                          2.9          5.4          8.3        13
Government of Ghana             9.8           -           9.8        15
Total                    18.6          46.0         64.6      100
===          =S=- 



- 40 -
I.   Project Implementatios and Management
3.50      The Government of Ghana (GOG) through its Ministries of Land and
Natural Resouices (MLNR) and Agriculture (MOA) would be responsible for
ensuring that the Project would be carried out in accordance with the
Development Credit Agreement. The Project would be implemented through
existing institutions/departments and the responsibility for executing each
component or sub-component would rest with the particular institution
concerned. Agreement has been teached between MOA and MLNR to the effect
that MOA through its Agricultute Crop Services Department (CSD) would be
responsible for implementirg the Agroforestry sub-component (para 3.24),
and the Forestry Department (FD) would be responsible for implementing the
Community Rural Foresc sub-component and Forest Management component
(including concee.sion control). The MLNR, FD, and Game and Wildlife
Department (GY3) would each be responsible for carrying out the
institutional strengthening of their respective organizations (paras 3.26,
3.28 ar.d 3.31, respectively). The Forestry Education and Training
copponcnt would be implemented by the Institute of Renewal Natural
Resources (IRNR) for training at de&zee and post-graduate levels and by the
FD through School of Forestry, Sunyani (SFS) for technical level training
(para 3.37). The Research Component would be undertaken by the Forest
Products Research Institute (FPRI) (para 3.45). Each of them would submit
along with their annual budget, an annual work plan approved by the respec-
tive authority for their operation and procurement at least four months
prior to each fiscal year for IDA review. The FD would include in its
annual work plan the following: (a) inventory and mapping inside and
outside the forest reserves; (b) nurseries establishment, seedling
production and distribution; (c) inventory mapping and rehabilitation of
existing plantations; (d) establishment of Permanent Sample Plots (PSP);
and (e) activities of the Concession Unit. APU would include in its annual
work plan the following: (i) seed production distribution and planting; and
(ii) nurseries establishment. Assurances to these effects were obtained at
negotiations (para 4.01 (o)). The Project would be implemented over six
years, starting January 1989 with completion expected by December 1994
(Annex 3-6). The IDA credit, based on the historical disbursement profile
for West African countries, would be disbursed over a period of seven years
of which about 902 would be disbursed by PY6 (1994).
3.51      Overall responsibility for project management and coordination
would rest with the Chief Director (Technical) of the MLNR. He vauid set
up, a Policy Formulation, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PPMEU),
which would serve the forestry sector and the Ministry as a whole. This
would be a condition for credit effectiveness (para 4.02 (f)). To ensure
inter-institutional coordination and periodically assess progress, a
Project Implementation Committee (PIC), chaired by the Chief Director
(Technical) and including the heads of the main institutions involved in
executing the Project, has already been set up. It would meet once every
quarter, or more often if required. A mid-term review on all project
components, including the state of recruitment of professional and
technical staff, to assess progress and ensure adjustment to prevailing
conditions and policy would be undertaken at the end of PY2 (1991).



- 41 -
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01 (p). To
ensure project success assurances were also obtained at negotiations that
FD, GWD. IRNR and FPRI and the agroforestry unit in MOA would be allowed to
(i) recruit skilled staff up to their respective establishment: (ii)
procure vehicles and equipment as stated in the approved project plans; and
(iii) assign the vehicles financed under the project to the respective
institutions only (para 4.01 (q)).
Technical Assistance
3.52      The need to streamline the performance of sector institutions in
order to achieve project objectives requires strengthening of the sector
management and operational systems. There are variour areas where techni-
cal assistance is essential:
(i) Forest Management
(a) Forest Management and Logging Specialist for 48
staff-months;
(b) Forest Inventory Specialist for 30 staff-months;
(c) Mensuration Officer for 30 staff-months;
(d) Forest Plantation Inventory and Planning Specialist for
24 staff-months; and
Ce) Botanist to assist the High Foreat Inventory Specialist for
24 staff-months.
(ii)  Rural Forestry
(a) Rural Forestry/Agroforestry Specialist for 36 staff-months
(FD);
(b) Land Tenure/Legal Specialist for 12 staff-months (FD);
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist for 36 staff-months
(MOA);
(d) Motivation and Extension Training Specialist for 36 staff-
months (MOA); and
(e) Socio-Economic Survey Specialist for 30 staff-months (FD).
(iii) MLNR
(a) Sector Planner for 48 staff-months;
(b) Environmental Economics and Policy Adviser for 4
staff-months;



- 42 -
Sc) Environmental Economist for 25 staff-months;
(d) Ethnobotanist for 21 staff-months;
(e) Wildlife Ecologist for 7 staff-months;
(f) Computer Programming Specialist for 24 staff-months; and
(g) Soil Specialist for 2 staff-months.
(iv) FD
(a) Planning/Monitoring Specialist for 36 staff-months; and
(b) Financial Controller for 36 staff-=onths.
(v) GMD
(a) Wildlife Management Planning and Inventory Specialist for 48
staff-months;
(b) Primatologist for 12 staff-months;
(c) Ornithologist for 12 staff-months;
(d)  Botanist for 12 staff-months; and
Ce) Elephant Inventory Specialist for 12 staff-months.
(vi) TEDB and FPIB
(a) Specialist on Computerized Accounting for 12 staff-months;
(b) Sawmilling Specialist for 36 staff-months;
Sc) Kiln-Drying Specialist for 36 staff-months; and
(d) Wood-Working Specialist for 36 staff-months.
(vii) IRNR
(a) Wood Science Specialist for 24 staff-months;
(b) Agroforestry Specialist for 24 staff-months; and
(c) Wildlife Management Specialist for 24 staff-months.
(viii) School of Forestry,Sunyani
(a) Forestry Manpower and Education Specialist for 24
staff-months; and



- 43 -
(b) Agroforestry Lecturer for 24 staff-months.
(iz) Forest Products Research Institute
(a) Agroforestry Research specialist for 12 staff-months;
(b) Tropical high forest silviculture and management specialist
for 12 staff-monthb; and
(c) Tree breeding research specialist for 12 staff-months.
3.53       To increase its effectiveness the technical assistance staff
would operate in line positions. An indigenous counterpart would be
assigned to work closely with, and be trained by the respective technical
assistant. To ensure better selection the technical assistant would be
involved as much as possible in the selection of his/her counterpart.
Prior to external recruitment of the required technical assistants, an
effort would be made to select suitable Ghanaian candidates with experience
and qualifications acceptable to GOG, DANIDA, ODA and IDA. The appointment
of stuitable persons with experience and qualifications acceptable to the
Government, ODA, DANIDA and IDA to fill the following positionst (a)
Sertor Planner (MLNR); (b) Forest Management and Logging Specialist (PD);
5C) Head of Concession Unit (ED); (d) Rural Forestry/Agroforestry
Specialist (FD); and (e) Extension and Training Specialist (MOA) would be a
condition for credit effectiveness (para 4.02 (b)).
J.   Procurement
3.54      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:



- 44 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(IDA share in parentheses)
(US$ Million)
Procurement CategoLy
ICB           LCB       Other           Total
Sector Imports 1/                                     15.0 2/ (15.0)  15.0(15.0)
Civil Works                  2.9 (2.2)    7.2 (2.8)                    10.1 (5.0)
Vehicles                     4.2 (2.8)                 1.5              5.7 (2.8)
Equipment and Materials      4.3 (2.1)                 2.5              6.8 (2.1)
Technical Assistance,                                 11.0 (6.6)       11.0 (6.6)
Studies and Surveys
Training and Fellowships                               2.7 (1.5)        2.7 (1.5)
Operating Costs                                       13.3 (6.4)       13.3 (6.4)
Total                 11.4 (7.1)    7.2 (2.8)  46.0(29.5)        64.6(39.4)
1/ Under the quick disbursement element of the sector reform component.
2/ ICB, international shopping or normal commercial practices.
3.55      All goods, works and services financed under the IDA credit would
be procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Assurances to
this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 4.01 (r)). All contracts
exceeding US$100,000 for vehicles, heavy duty and specialized equipment
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since
contracts of lesser value are unlikely to attract international bidders.
Whenever possible, items to be procured would be grouped into purchases of
at least US$100,000. Purchases valued at less than US$100,000, but above
US$60,000, would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
acceptable to IDA with an aggregate value of about US$7.2 million,
approximately 100 to 110 contracts. Purchases for groups of items valued
at less than US$60,000 would be made through international shopping on the
basis of at least three quotation and would not exceed an aggregate amount
of US$4.0 million, about US$1.5 million for vehicles and US$2.5 million for
equipment and materials. In evaluating ICB tenders a margin of 152 of the
cif bid price or actual customs duties, whichever is less, would be allowed
for preference to domestic manufacturers. For civil works contracts a
prequalification process would be followed in accordance with IDA
guidelines and for ICB tender evaluation a margin of 7.5Z would be allowed
for preference to bona fide domestic contractors.
3.56      Procurement under ICB and LCB would amount to US$18.6 million.
Procurement of consultancy services, studies, and internationally recruited
staff (US$ 6.6 million), staff training and fellowship (US$ 1.5 million),
and recurrent expenditure (US$6.4 million) would be carried out in
accordance with IDA guidelines; about US$7.1 million would be procured in
accordance with ODA procurement practice. Procedures for other procurement



- 45 -
largely financed by the Government such as local shopping for operating and
general services, including salaries and allowances, vehicle and equipment
operation and maintenance, maintenance of plant and equipment, nursery
maintenance and acquisition of stationery and supplies appear acceptable at
this time. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all bidding
packages above US$100,000 for goods, and above US$200,000 for works and
services would be subject to prior review by IDA (para 4.01 (r)), and would
represent about 60% of the total value of procurement.
3.57      Procurement for the sector reform component have been designed to
permit rapid use of the funds while ensuring efficiency to the economy.
The proceeds of the proposed sector reform component (US$15.0 million
equivalent) would be used exclusively for financing imports of eligible
items related to the forestry and the timber sectors, and funds for these
imports would be obtained through the foreign exchange auction conducted
regularly in the Bank of Ghana. IDA financing under the sector reform
component will be limited to imports procured from IDA member countries,
Switzerland and Taiwan, China. The proposed credit would finance l0oZ of
the CIF costs of eligible imports. Direct imports would require
international competitive bidding for contracts above US$2.0 million and
three price quotations for goods under US$2.0 million in accordance with
Bank's Guidelines, if imported by the Government. Imports by the private
sector would be in accordance with normal commercial practices for
contracts below US$2.0 million. International suppliers are well
represented in Ghana and together with the ongoing auction system and trade
liberalization sLould ensure an internationally competitive market in which
importers can be relied on to procure their goods from the most efficient
sources to minimize costs.
K.   Disbursement
3.58      The IDA Credit amounting to US$39.4 million would be disbursed
over seven years beginning the second semester of IDA FY89 through the
first semester of IDA FY96. IDA credit includes a quick disbursing
component of US$15.0 million to be disbursed in two tranches of US$7.5
million each: the first at effectiveness and the second about 18 months
later (mid-1990). The disbursement schedule ip provided in Annex 3-10. It
is shorter than the historical disbursement profile of eight years for
agriculture and rural development projects for Ghana. The proposed seven
year disbursement period appears realistic, since the institutions
responsible for implementing the project are firmly in place, even though
they are in urgent need of improved efficiency. These would, however, as
part of the project, be further streamlined and strengthened, and would, as
a result, contribute to adhering to the seven year disbursement schedule.



- 46 -
Summary Disbursement Schedule
2 of Expenditure
Category            Amount of Credit Allocated    to be Financed
(US$ Million)          1002 of foreign
exchange and the
following if procured
locally.
Sector Imports                 15.0                        0
Civil Works                     4.5                       65
Vehicles                        2.5                       70
Equipment and Materials         1.9                       70
Technical Assistance            6.0                      100
Training                        1.3                      100
Operating Costs                 5.8                         1/
Unallocated                     2.4
Total                     39.4
_
11 IDA would gradually phase out its share of disbursements for operating
costs over the seven year disbursement period. Accordingly, it would
disburse SOX of the operating costs in each of the two years, FY89 and
FY90, 752 in FY91, 652 in FY92, 402 in FY93, 252 in FY94 and 02
thereafter.
3.59      Reimbursements for approved expenditures, amounting to less than
the equivalent of US$50,000, would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOE).  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that all
supporting documents for SOEs would be held by the respective institution
(MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU) as appropriate in a readily available
form and would be made available for inspection upon request by IDA (para.
4.01 (c)). Whenever possible, withdrawal applications would be aggregated
in amounts of at least US$20,000 prior to submission to IDA for
reimbursement out of credit proceeds. IDA reimbursements would be made to
the Special Accounts if appropriate or the institutions' respective
accounts. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para.
4.01 (d)).
3.60      Special Accounts.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
(i) MLNR, IRNR, FPRI and the Agroforestry Unit (AFU) in the MOA would each
establish a special account for its project components into which IDA would
make an initIal deposit of: US$500,000 in MLNR special account for FD, GWD
and itself, and US$150,000 each in IRNR, FPRI and AFU special accounts to
be used to prefinance goods and services reimbursable under the credit;
(ii) the special accounts would be operated under the terms and conditions
acceptable to IDA: and (iii) IDA would at its discretion, hold back
replenishment in case of inadequate financing by GOG through MLNR, IRNR,



- 47 -
FPRI and AFU in HOA, if GOG, for whatever reason, fails to make its
contribution to the respective project account for each institution
specified including FD and GWD (para 4.01 (d)). The accounts would be
managed by MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU in MOA, and should any
disbursement made from these mentioned accounts be found ineligible for
financing, GOG would d?posit the corresponding amount into the account(s)
prior to submission of any further replenishment application. Special
Accounts procedures are given in Annex 3-11.
3.61      Project Accounts.  At negotiations, assurances were obtained that
(i) GOG would establish for the Forestry Project accounts with local
commercial banks for FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU in MOA.  These accounts
would receive the government contribution and would be used to make
payments for implementing the project, and (ii) GOG would pay its
contribution as stated in the approved annual budgets, quarterly and, in
advance into these accounts (para 4.01 (b)). GOG would make available or
cause to be made available initial amounts for deposit into the said FD,
GIWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU in HOA accounts in Cedis, the equivale;at of USS'000
260.0, 32.5, 60.0, 62.5 and 74.6, respectively, w.hich re;rescnts the
estimated GOG contribution to finance local operating and capital costs for
the first six months of the project, as a condition of project
effectiveness (para 4.02 (g)).
L.   Auditing and Reporting
3.62      At negotiations, agreement was reached that all accounts related
to the project would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.01 (e). The auditors report and statements of accounts
would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal year
of the GOG. MLNR, FD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would submit quarterly progress
reports - MLNR for itself and for the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD),
PD for itself and for the School of Forestry Sunyani (SFS) - to IDA, and
later a report on the overall project implementation and achievements
within six months of the project's closing date. Assurances to these
effects were obtained at negotiations (para 4.01 (r)). Details of
reporting and auditing requirements are given in Annex 3-12.
M.   Environmental Impact
3.63      A key objective of the project is to improve the environmental
management and to arrest uncontrolled overcutting of Ghana's high forests
and savannas. The project activities incorporate measures to ensure
environmental protection by safeguarding the forest, wildlife and watershed
resources. Firstly, the forest management inventory would provide the
information base for long-term management and conservation of the forest.
Secondly, logging activities would be rationalized through development of
working plans and stock maps for areas to be logged, and control of logging
achieved through strengthening of the Forestry Department Planning Branch.
Thirdly, the wildlife inventory provides for the establishment of a
baseline data base against which changes in wildlife populations can be
measured. The strengthening of the Wildlife Department would ensure



- 48 -
greater protection of the National Parks and Wildlife Reserves.  Fourthly,
the research program on Minor Forest Products (MFPs) and environmental
benefits of the forest would allow for a better assessment of the economic
benefits of forest conservation, and costs of deforestation. Fifthly, the
rural forestry activities would reduce pressure on the forest resources by
providing additional fuelwood and other wood resources and %.3uld have an
impact on reducing soil losses through wind and water erosion control
planting programs. This would have an impact on agricultural activity
through reduced exposure of soils to erosion as well as improving soil
productivity through mulching and nitrogen fixation.
N.   Financial Impact
3.64      The total annual burden, incremental and non-incremental, on the
government, as a result of the project, is likely to be at least US$6.5
million (Cedis 1.4 billion). Of this, US$1.6 million (Cedis 0.3 billion)
is estimated as the annual incremental cost due to project activities.
After project completion, in order to maintain adequate services in the
forestry subsector, the annual capital expenditure, exclusive of price
contingencies, would amount to US$2.2 million (Cedis 0.5 billion). This
would primarily be used to finance the replacement of vehicles and
equipment. In addition, Government would have to make provision to finance
the recurrent expenditures of sector institutions estimated at
approximately US$4.3 million (Cedis 0.9 billion) per annum.
3.65      Over the years, essential funding for forestry sector
institutions to maintain basic and minimum operitions has been untimely,
irregular and inadequate. There are indications that budgetary funds
received have been grossly insufficient with detrimental consequences for
the implementation of forestry sector policy. However, with the latest
revisions in the structure and level of forestry fees and royalties due to
be approved and implemented by end 1989, and with the commitment to keep
these appropriately updated in future, obstacles to adequate budgetary
provision for recurrent expenditure should be practically alleviated.
3.66      It is envisaged that by 1994, the last year of the project,
actual revenue collected and deposited in the Forestry Fund Account would
amount to at least 0 2.4 billion equivalent to approximately US$10 million
depending on the exchange rate. 21 This is more than adequate to meet the
annual financial burden on GOG after project completion. The funds
remaining after fulfilling the sector annual financial needs would be used
in agreement between GOG and PD. A portion of this could, for instance, be
utilized for undertaking new plantations (in particular fuelwood), and/or
rehabilitating old ones, or for any other investment in the sector deemed
to be priority.
2/ See Avnex 2-2 for explanation of revenue estimate.



- 49 -
3.67      The project is expected to have a positive impact on employment
and possibly foreign exchange earnings. In the absence of a firm estimate
of the annual allowable cut and a comprehensive sttategy for the wood
processing industry outlining its nature and planned capacity, projections
on both are at best, only hypotheses. However, given the government's
emphasis on domestic value added, and with greater utilization of existing
capacity, additional jobs in sawmills and other wood processing industries
are likely to materialize. Small scale carpentry, too, is expected to get
a strong boost. As the economy continues to recover and grow and demand
from a larger population translates itself into construction,
communications and furniture requirements, the domestic wood processing
industry would find itself with the necessary incentives to flourish. The
rate at which new jobs would be created, however, is expected to level off
as Ghana's forest resource gradually comes under sustained yield
management. Ultimately, it would be the annual allowable cut that would
impose the constraint on the number of fresh job opportunities in the wood
processing industry. The annual allowable cut would also determine the
extent to which export earnings would increase. The 1987 cut, which
reached the market, domestic and overseas, is about 1.35 million m3,
producing export earnings of about US$100 million. In the unlikely event
that (i) the annual cut for the marketable species would be reduced to the
level of the present annual allowable cut of 1.1 million m3; (ii) this
level would be reached by 1992; and (iii) reduced timber supply is shared
equally between the domestic and export markets, then foreign exchange
earning in 1987 prices could decrease by US$9.0 million, or 9Z of 1987 wood
p-r-d--ct ev-^-rt  nr ^nnum   There 4g a possibility that the annual allowable
cut might be higher than the 1.1. million m3 due to either more species
becoming marketable and/or the inventory exercise proving that the
estimated 1.1 million m3 is on the low side. As an example, if it is found
that the annual allowable cut is about 1.45 million m3, the reduction in
wastage of logs would increase timber production without additional
cutting, in 1987 prices, by about US$2.0 million in PY2 (1990), rising up
to US$10.0 million in PY6 (1994) and onwards; the export share is estimated
to be 50Z, i.e. increase in export revenue of US$1.0 mn to US$5.0 mn,
respectively. Based on the above assumptions, the following is an
illustrative table representing the three scenarios:



- 50 -
Export Earnings
(USS mu)
PYl       PY2       PY3        PY4       PY5       PY6
1989      1990      1991       1992      1993      1994
w/o Project            100       100        100       100        100      100
(1.35 mm m3
reaches the market)
with Project           100       101        102       103       104       105
(1.45 mm m3
reaches the market)
with Project            99        97         94        91         91       91
Allowable Annual
Cut of 1.1 mm m3
0.   Benefits, Justification and Risks
3.68       Project Benefits.  Ghana's forests produce three major
categories of benefits: (i) wood for industry and fuel; (ii) minor forest
products, including bushmeat and medicinal plants; and (iii) environmental
services, including soil and water conservation, provision of soil organic
matter and autr'ents, maintenance of biodiversity and. possiblv. beneficial
climatic effects. While the project is expected to produce all three
categories of benefits, the extent and value of many of these cannot be
determined for lack of appropriate data. However, the quantifiable
benefits indicate that the project over 15 years would produce an Economic
Rate of Return (ERU) of 21.4Z and a Net Present Value (NPV), using 1OZ
discount rate, of US$20.8 million. An indication of the significance or
order of magnitude of these benefits and how they would be influenced by
the project is presented below.
3.69      Timber.  The current estimate of annual allowable cut of 1.1
million m3 comprises: 720,000 m3 from reserved forest; (ii) 120,000 m3
from unreserved forest; and (iii) 260,000 m3 from plantations. However,
the actual cut has been estimated to be considerably higher, in the range
of 2.0 to 2.7 million m3, approximately 1.6 to 2.5 times the annual
allowable cut. This is based on reliable estimates which suggest that the
actual production of logs exported or delivered to mills is about 1.35
million m3, not including logs sold or processed illicitly. Furthermore,
wastage in the woods, i.e., the difference between the cut and the yield,
is commonly held to average 25 to 50. As a consequence, one-quarter to
one-half of all the merchantable wood cut is left on the forest floor and
not hauled to the mill. By institutional strengthening and by improving
forest management, the project would have a significant effect on reducing
log wastage in the forest and improving utilization beyond the 50-75Z level
(para 3.68 and Annex 3-13). This effort would also be enhanced by



- 51 -
implementation of the proposed new fee and royalty schedules, which create
an incentive to use a greater proportion of the wood cut.
3.70      Fuelwood, Poles and Fruit.  The main tangible output from the
project's rural forestry component covering approximately 3,000 hectares
would be fuelvood, building poles and fruit. The agroforestry subcomponent
would promote planting of fruit and non-fruit trees on a pilot scale, while
the community forestry subcomponent would encourage the planting of trees
for fuelwood, poles and some fruit. The financial rate of return of the
component as a whole is 27.9? and the economic rate of return, including
project costs, 13.5Z. Most of this output would be used in rural areas,
but some would be sold to the cities, in which case part of the fuelwood
would first be converted into charcoal. The sales to the urban market
would provide an opportunity for the rural population to augment its cash
income, especially during the dry season when there is little work in
agriculture whereas it is the most favorable time to prepare fuelwood and
charcoal. The 3,000 ha of plantation-equivalent which are expected to
result from the improved seedling production (para 3.22 (ii)) would over
their economic life of about thirty years result in the production of some
900,000 m3 of wood. At the price of Cedis 1,400/m3 given in para 2.15 for
rural fuelwood and poles, which can be regarded as conservative considering
that some of the wood would be used as timber while another part would be
sold to the cities, both categories commanding higher prices, the value of
the above-mentioned wood output would be Cedis 1.260 million. To this
should be added the environmental benefits, and the benefits of
post-project tree-planting resulting from institution-building during the
3.71      Minor Forest Products.  By reducing deforestation - in the high
forest by improved forest management, and in the savanna by encouraging
private tree planting - the project would help safeguard the production of
forest products such as: (i) bushmeat, eaten regularly by an estimated 752
of Ghana's population; (ii) live animal exports, worth $344,000 in 1985;
(iii) medicinal plants, used routinely by almost all rural Ghanaian
households and an estimated 602 of urban households; and (iv) a vast range
of other minor forest products used for food, handcrafts, construction,
decorative and cultural purposes (para 2.16).
3.72      Enviromental Benefits.  Significant environmental benefits are
provided by forests in both the high forest and the savanna zones.
However, to document the extent and value of the environmental services
afforded by the project would require a substantial research effort. Major
euvironmental benefits take the form of soil conservation, hydrolog4cal
stabilization, protection of biodiversity, and perhaps climate
amelioration. To the extent that the project would protect the remaining
reserved forest as 'natural' forest, and support the protection of several
parks and wildlife reserves, the indeterminate value of these benefits
would be maintained. A methodology for the evaluation of soil losses due
to deforestation would be put in place (Working Papers 4 and 7).



- 52 -
3.73      Justification.  The economic value of the reduction in log
wastage in the forest is shown in Annex 3-11. The net present value of the
project is estimated to be $20.8 million over 15 years, representing an
economic rate of return of approximately 21.4X. The ERR is quite robust:
a lag in the benefit stream by one year reduces it to 17? and by three
years to 122; a 202 increase in costs accompanied by a 201 decline in
benefits would lower it to 10.5Z. Benefits would have to fall by about 37Z
or costs increase by 501 to reduce the ERR to zero. Project benefits
equivalent to gradual reductions in log wastage of 1.5Z to 3? in Year 2 up
to 7.4? to 15Z from Year 6 onwards, depending on the assumptions made
regarding total log wastage. Limited improvements of these orders of
magnitude should be achievable given the strengthened institutional and
organizational base from which public forest managers would be working.
The size of the reduction in log waste necessary by the end of the project
to justify economically the expenditure of project initiatives for 6 years
is calculated. This reduction is estimated to be 60,000 m3, equivalent to
a range of 4.4Z to 9.2? of the estimated of the current range of log
wastage. Again, it is not unreasonable to assume that improvements in
efficiency of this scale would be achieved, if not surpassed, by the
project.
3.74      Risks.  The main risks associated with the project pertain to:
firstly, the possible delayed or slack implementation on account of the
existing weak morale, poor incentives and low salaries of staff employed by
the relevant forestry sector institutions; secondly, slow adaptation by
farmers and rural tribal authorities and communities to tree planting due
to iife luon  ati'itudes to the contrary; thIrdly, Aol a,   plnmntnt4nn of
the respective responsibilities of the Forestry Department and the Ministry
of Agriculture regarding respons'bility in the area of forestry extension;
fourthlX, in increasing and adjusting fees and royalties; and finally, and
probably most important for project sustainability, the inability of the FD
to appropriately fill skilled and semi-skilled positions expeditiously.
These risks are to be minimized through building awareness and bringing out
the long term consequences of delayed action, through close monitoring of
the resource base and sectoral performance; by project work on testing
potential packages for farmers to adopt; and increased availability of
professional and technical staff through focused education and training
along with improved in staff incentive.
IV. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
4.01      During negotiations for the proposed credit, the following
principal issues were discusned and agreement reached with GOG, FD, IRNR
and FPRI and specified as conditions in the Development Credit Agreement:
Financial Conditions
(a) The collected forestry fees would be deposited into the Forestry



- 53 -
Fund Account which would operate a separate bank account for this
purpose, and from which operational expenditures of the FD would
be financed, as and when needed, within its approved budget (para
2.39);
(b) GOG would include and provide in its annual current and capital
budgets adequate funds to finance project activities and for FD,
GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would open at commercial banks and
thereafter maintain with adequate funds the FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI
and AFU accounts to be used to pay for goods and services
required for the implementation of the respective project
component and would pay into the respective MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR,
FPRI, and AFU accounts quarterly and in advance, its annual share
as stated in the respective MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI, and AEU
approved annual budget (paras 3.49 and 3.61);
(c) All supporting documents for Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and
withdrawal from the Special Accounts would be maintained in
readily available form and made available upon request for
inspection by IDA (para 3.59);
td)  The Special Accounts for MLNR, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would be
operated under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA and
replenishments would be conditional on GOG's quarterly releases
of its contributions to the respective institutions including FD
and GWD. All IDA reimbursements would be made to the special
accounts, if appropriate, or to the other MNIR, GWD, IRNR° and
PPRI bank accounts (paras 3.59 and 3.60);
(e) Audited accounts together with auditors reports, including
statements as to whether or not IDA funds had been used for their
intended purpose, would be submitted to IDA within six months of
the end of each fiscal year (para 3.62).
Prolect Administration Conditions
(f) The annual cut would be restricted (by June 30, 1993) to the
level of 1.1 million m3 or any other figure that would result
from the high forest inventory exercise (para 2.13);
(g) By October 1, 1990 FD would take the responsibility for the
collection of forestry fees outside forest reserves (para 2.22);
(h) GOG would ensure that (1) PPMEU would prepare a National Forest
Strategy by January 31, 1991, and submit to IDA for its review by
April 30, 1991; (2) after an exchange of views with IDA, publish
by September 30, 1991, the revised draft National Forest
Strategy; and (3) review the strategy and the work program
related to the said National Forest Policy by September 30, 1992,



- 54 -
and each year thereafter until project completion, taking into
account IDA's views (paras 2.33 and 2.34);
(i) Royalty fees would be: (i) reviewed by September 30 of each
year, and if the review warrants it, these fees would be adjusted
to reflect changes in FOB values, exchange rate and local coats;
(ii) increased to at least 18 percent of the FOB weighted average
of exportable logs, less cost of transportation and logging by
January 1, 1992 (para 2.35 (a));
(j) GOG and the sector respective institution would comply with the
concession allocation principles acceptable to IDA (paras 2.35
(b) and 2.36);
(k) By September 1 each year FD and GWD would each submit to IDA for
review its rationale for revision and proposal for adjustment of
its salary and incentive structure (para 2.38);
(1) By Junen 30, 1989 the Preservation Act of 1961, concerning
wildlife and game reserves, would be amended to include a
definition of (1) essential conditions for hunting; (2) national
park and conservation areas; and (3) duties and capacity of
wildlife officers (para 3.32);
sm) IRNR Management Board of Directors and its Academic Committee
would be established by June 30, 1989. The Board of Directors
wuidu he Coapw-d O fe.         'ave: of MM, PD, US!T, F, N4GOs
involved in forestry and the forest industry (para 3.40);
(n) The FPRI would be transferred by June 30, 1989 to the supervision
as a semi-autonomous institute by MLNR (para 3.46);
(0)  At least four months prior to each fiscal year FD, GWD, IRNR,
SFS, FPRI, and AFU would submit, along with their annual budget,
an annual work plan approved by the respective authorities in
such detail and format agreed upon by the Association including
progress reports on, and projections for staff recruitment and
incentive schemes (para 3.50);
(p) A mid-term review on all project components, including the state
of recruitment of professional and technical staff to assess
progress and ensure adjustment to prevailing conditions and
policy would be undertaken not later than December 31, 1991 (para
3.51);
(q) GOG would ensure that FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and the Agroforestry
unit in HOA would be allowed to (1) recruit skilled staff up to
their respective establishment; (2) procure vehicles for the
project as stated in the approved project plans; and (3) assign
the vehicles financed under the project to the respective
institutions only (para 3.51); and



- 55 -
(r) Procurement, budgeting, audit and reporting requirements would be
satisfactory to IDA, and all bidding packages above US$100,000
for goods and above US$200,000 for works and services would be
subject to prior review by IDA (paras 3.55, 3.56 and 3.62); and
4.02      Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) The royalty fees have been increased to a level of 6Z of the
respective FOB value and timber concession allocation procedures
acceptable to the Assocation were announced (para 2.34);
(b) The appointment of suitable persons with experience and
qualifications acceptable to the Government, ODA, DANIDA and IDA
to fill the following positions: (i) Sector Planner (MLNR); (ii)
Head of a Concession Unit (PD); (iii) Forest Management and
Logging Specialist (FD); (iv) Rural Forestry/Agroforestry
Specialist (FD); (v) Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (MOA);
and (vi) Extension and Training Specialist (MOA) (paras 2.36 (b)
and 3.53);
(c) Staff salary and incentive structure have been revised in line
with the principles stated in para 2.38 is in place;
(d) MOA's extension services have been strengthened by secondment
from ED of a professional forest officer and two forestry
technicians on the central level, and a technical officer on each
of the 14 districts where the rural forestry component would be
carried out (para 3.24);
(e) Agreements with other project cofinanciers to finance the project
have been signed (para 3.49);
(f) PPMEU has been established (para 3.51); and
(g) GOG would have made available or caused to be made available
initial amounts in Cedis of US$'000 equivalent to 260.0, 32.5,
60.0, 62.5 and 74.6 for deposit in the accounts of FD, GWD, IRNR,
FPRI, and AFU, respectively (para 3.61).
4.03      Conditions of Second Tranche Release for the Sector Reform-
component (quick disbursing element)s
(a) the royalty fees for forestry exploitation have been increased to
a level of 122, of the respective FOB weighted average value of
the marketing logs, less logging and transportation costs (para
2.35 (a));
(b) the weight granted to the concession rent offered by applicants
in the evaluation process designed to allocate concessions has
been established at 50Z and a timetable to increase it to 60Z has
been agreed (para 2.35 (b));



- 56 -
(c) the study to assess the rationale for promoting value added in
the wood processing industry through a ban on log exports as the
appropriate policy instrument has been completed and action plan
based on this study, has been agreed upon (para 2.40); and
(d) based on progress made in the recruitment of professional and
technical staff specific recomendations on further improvements
in this area and staff incentives have been submitted to the
Asbaociation (para 3.35).
4.04      Recommendation.  On the basis of the above assurances and
conditions, the project is suitable for IDA credit of US$39.4 million to
the Republic of Ghana at standard terms with 40 years maturity.



- 57 -
Annex 1-1
GHANA
FORZST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Prolect File
A.  Backaround
1.   Ghana Forestry Sector Review                  6817-GH
B.  Proiect Preparation
1.   Project Preparation Report (FAO/WB-CP)        58/87 CP-GHA 18
C.  Workint Papers
1.   Forest Management
2.  Rural Forestry
3. Forest Fees, Concession Policy, and Actual Annual Cut
in the High Forest
4. Minor Forest Products and Forest Environmental Benefits
5. First Year Action Plan
6.   TOR of Technical Assistance and Studies
7. Ghana's Forests and the Environment
8. Cost Estimate



- 58 -
Annex 2-1
Page 1 of 8
Ghana
Forest Resource ManaRement Pro1ect
Non-Timber Forest Products in Ghana (NTPs):
Some Species, Uses and Sources of Information.
This document summarizes the information on non-timber forest
products gathered during a 10-day mission to Ghana (February-March, 1988),
regarding the main uses of NTPs, some of the species utilized, and the
names of Ghanaian people, institutions or documents holding additional
information on the topic (details on a proposed research project on NTPs
can be found in Working Paper 4).
I.       Definition of NTPs:
NTPs  are  all  the  products   from  the  forest  different  from
industrial timber--vegetal or animal, traded or non-traded, used by the
local population and/or exported.   Among  them, we can mention: animals of
different species (and their eggs), mushrooms, fruits, roots, barks,
leaves, non-industrial wood used for diverse purposes, seeds, flowers,
leaflitter, resins, gum, honey, fibers and canes, etc.
The list of uses and species is not exhaustive, for two reasons:
in some cases, there does not exist enough information to build an
exhaustive list; in other cases, there exist extensive inventories (for
example, in the case of medicinal plants), from which we have only
extracted the most important species, but which we quote for future
reference. Obviously, this account restricts itself to what has been
identified as current uses, thus excluding potential uses of forest species
which might be very important.  Finally, the account also excludes services
provided by the forest (soil protection, habitat for animals and plants,
hydrological regulation, climatic stabilization, etc.) which certainly
should be added when trying to estimate the total contribution of forests
to the national economy.
II.      Uses of NTPs:
The forest products listed above are used in many ways, sometimes
differing from one ethnic group or region to another (records of different
uses across ethnic groups in Ghana could not be found; they exist in other
countries, for example in Cote  d'Ivoire).    A  simplified list of uses is
presented below:
Uses of vlants and their parts:
(a)     Edible plants and their parts:
(a.l)   food (suplementary, emergency, famine food)
(a.2)   food additives (condiments, sweeteners, sauce thickeners)
(a.3)   source of salt
(a.4)   source of water



- 59 -
Annex 2-L
Page 2 of 8
(a.5)   sources of oil or fat
(a.6)   non-alcoholic beverages, thrist quenchers
(a.7)   plant wines and liquors
(b)     Medicinal   plants    of    multiple    sorts   (including
aphrodisiacs)
(c)     Wood fuels:
(c.1)   fuelwood
(c.2)   charcoal
(d)     Inputs for manufacture of other products:
(d.1)   mats and mattresses
(d.2)   baskets
(d.3)   other handicrafts (masks, ritual implements)
(d.4)   dyes
(d.5)   fish poison
(d.6)   furniture (rattan, canes, secondary wood species)
(d.7)   tools (wooden handles...)
(d.8)   hygiere implements (chewing  sticks, chewing sponges, bath
sponges)
(d.9)   cosmetics (colors, cremes...)
(d.10)  honey adulterants
(d.11)  rubber and rubber adulterants
(d.12)  resins
(d.13)  tanning material
(d.14)  wrapping material
(d.15)  mortars and pestles
(d.16)  ropes
(e)     Construction materials:
(e.1)   construction poles
(e.2)   thatching material
(e.3)   material for canoes
(f)     Ornamental plants and flowers
Animals:
(g)     Food:
(g.1)   oushmeat
(g.2)   edible insects
(g.3)   oil and fat
(g.4)   eggs
(g.5)   honey (included here  because  of  being an insect-related
product)
(h)     Skins, furs, and feathers
(i)     Use as pets



- 60 -
Annex 2-1
Page 3 of 8
(J)     Use in traditional medLcine
(J)     Use in scientific research
(k)     Use in zoos
III.     Species by us:e local sources of information:
Table 2.1.1 below presents a list of species widely used in Ghana,
about  which some  information  could be  found.    The  sources  are also
listed. At the end of the table, some comments are made on sources of
information for further research.
(Contd.)



- 61 -
Annex 2-1
Table  2.1.1.                                                   Page  4 of 8
USE                 LOCAL or ?I3I lAUJ            SCIIITIFIC BANK                      S01CE O  IIOIATION
animal food                                           hunaaga smithy                        Prof. Demptel, Uai. Cape Coast
animl food                 odue                       Chlorofora excelsa                    Prof. Demptey. Unai. Cape Coast
nimals, sediciual          elephant                   Lozodonta african                     Ntiaoa-Baidu, 1987
animls, medicinal          genet cat                  Gemct4a Bp.                           Itiamoa-Bhidu, 1987
animals,  edicimal         hooded vulture             leopiron moachus                      Itiumoa-Bidu, 1987
anials, medicinal          pagolia                    Nuis Ap.                              Itiamo-Baidu, 1987
animals, mdicinal          parrots                    Psittaeu up.                          Itiasoa-Baidu, 1987
busimeat                   bay duiker                 Cephalopbus dorsal)s                  Itiamoa-Bidu, 1987
bushneat                   black duiker               Cepkalophus niger                     Ntianoa-Baidu, 1987
bushbeat                   brusbtailed porcupine    Atherurus africuus                     Ntiaoa-Baidu, 1987
bushmeat                   bush pig                   Potamochoerus porcus                  Ntiumoa-8aidu, 1987
bushmeat                   butbbuck                   tragelaphus scriptus                  Itianom-Baidu, 1987
bushmeat                   civet cat                  liverra civetta                       Ptiasoa-Baidu, 1987
bushneat                   Gubia  moongoose           lungos gambianus                      Itimoa-Baidu, 1987
busheat                    genet cat                  Genetta spp.                          Itiosom-Baid, 1987
buskmeat                   giant rat                  Cricetosis lgabianue                  ltiamoa-Baidu, 1987
imkomit                   gralscutter                 thryonoais swinderianus               Ntianoa-Baidu, 1987
bushneat                   ground squirrel            lerus erithropus                      Itiamoa-Baidu, 1987
bushmeat                  Nanwell duiker              Cephalophus Nuwell                    Itiuaoa-Baidu, 1987
bushosat                   red-flaaked duiker         Cephalophus rufilatus                 Rtiauoa-Baidu, 1987
busheat                    reedbuck                  WRunea redunca                         Itiamoa-Baidu, 1987
busbeat                   loyal antelope              Neotragus pigmaeus                    Itiamoa-Baidu, 1987
bushmeat                   spot-aosed monkey          Cercopithecus petaurista              Itianoa-Baidu, 1987
busbeat                    tree byrax                Dendrobyrax dorsalls                   Itiamom-Baido, 1987
bushmeat                   too-spotted palm civet   Iandinia binotata                       Itiawoa-Baidu, 1987
canoes                     african pearwood          Nanilkara obovata                     l.P.RI, lnf. Bulletin lo. 6
canoes                     agobeu                    Borassus aethiopium                    FP.II, lnf. Bulletin lo. 6
canoes                     akta                       Bombau buonopozense                  llP.B     f., Inf  Bulletin lo. 6
canoes                     albiuia                    lbisia ferruginea                    l.P.B f, Inf. Bulletin go. 6
canoes                     atiris                    Antiaris africana                     I P.BI, Inf. Bulletin No. 6
cuoes                      Uola                      Parkia bicolor                        I P R         f., Inf  Bulletin lo. 6
enoes                      ceiba                     Ceiba pentaAdra                       I P I         f., Inf Bulletin No. 6
canoes                     _go-et-nkyene             Cleistopholis patens                  llP.II, Inf. Bulletin go. 6
canoes                     nokwa                     loloptelea grandis                      .P.B.L. I,lf. Bulletin lo. 6
canoes                     obeche                    Triplochiton selerozylon              1.1.P.R., Inf. Bulletin go. 6
charcoal production        afan                      Parinari excelsa                      llP I        f., In. Bulletin No. 6
charcoal production        afambiri                  Parinari robusta                      l.PI oI, Inf. Bulletin No. 6
charcoal pr Wuction        celtis a                  Celtis adolfi friderici               l.P.R.I., If. Bulletin No. 6
charcoal production       celtis a                   Celtis aildbraedii                    l.P.R.I, lf. Bulletin lo. 6
charcoal production        celtis a                  Celtis senkeri                        l.P.B     f., It. Bulletin No. 6
charcoal production        kane                      Anogeissus leiocarpus                 l.P.RI, Inf. Bulletin go. 6
charcoal production        naudua                    Gluema ivoreasis                      F.P.R.I., lof. Bulletin lo. 6
charcoal production        okan                      Cylicodiscus gabuneusis               l.P.I. ., mt. Bulletin lo. 6
charcoal production        tanduro                   Trichilia preuriana                   F.P.1RI., If. Bulletin No. 6
chewing sponges            acacia                     Acacia ailotica?                     Gyakari, Otis (ODA inventory, Kumasi)
chewing sponges            save                                                            Gyakari, Ntis (ODA inventory, Eumasi)
chewing sticks             nsoko                     Garcinia epunctata                    Gyakari, Ntim  (ODA inventory, 1uasi)
chewing sticks            nsoko                      Garcinia afzelii                      Gyakari, Ntis (ODA inventory, Kuasi)
cheving sticks             tweapia                   Garcinia kola                         Gyakari, Ntih (ODA inventory, Iumasi)
dies                       badee                                                           Asian, J.L. (1980, 1.1.3.1.)
dyes                      kuntUnkuni                                                       AIonn, J.L. (1980, I.PII1
food, palm mine           oil palm                    Rlaeis guineensis
food, palm wine           raffia palm                Phoenix reclinata
(Contd.)



- 62 -
Annex 2-1
Page 5 of 8
Table  2.1.1  (Contd.)
food condiems             oil pol llaeis guineenasis
food condiment            tha                        If ramomum                            Gyniari, Otis  oDA inventory, Kunasi)
tueleod                   lb"                        Dacryoldes kiHineana                  I.P.8.I   Tof  Bulletin No. 6
fuelmood                  afta                       Parinari excelsa                      FP.R.I. 1i f. Bulletin No. 6
fuelsood                  afambiri                   Parinari robasta                      I.PBI.     . In'  Bulletin No. 6
fuelvood                  afina                      Strombosia glauceescens                          leP I t. Bulletin No. 6
fuelvood                  aktebiri                   Blighia uuijugata                     I.P.RI   Iif. Bulletin No. 6
fueluood                  ceitis a                   Celtis adolfi friderici               I.P.8I   Inf. Rulletin No. 6
fuelmood                  celtis m                   Celtis *ildbraedii                    IPfI       . I  !. Buitin No. 6
fuelvood                  celtio 2                   Celtis zenkeri                        I.PI fI . Inf  Bulletin  g. 6
fuelvood                  difou                      forus mesosygia                       I.P9 fI . In B Bulletin No. 6
tuelmood                  kovekove                   lymenostegia afzelii                  I.P.RI.  lif. Bulletin No. 6
fueluood                  tanduro                    frichilia prieouriana                 I     PR.I . In B ulletin No. 6
glue for pottery          gum copal                  Caesa guibortia                       Gyakari, Itim (ODA inventory, [umasi)
mattresses                kapok                      Ceiba pentandra                       Prof. Demptey, Univ. Cape :4ast
medicine                                             Pachipodanthiua standtil               anpong Centre for B. in P. Medic.
sedicine                                             Guarea cedrata                       G6aJhri, Otis (ODA inventory, Kumasi)
medicine                                              llbezia ferrugihea eupong Centre for R. in P. Vedic.
sedicine                                             Spiropetalluo  heterophyllus          laspong Centte for R. in P. Medic.
sedicine                                             Pychanthus anDolensis                 Mampong Centre for 8. in P. ledic.
medicine                                             lantbozyluu                           Gyakari, Rtis (ODA Inventory, lumasi
medicine                                             lewbouldia laevis                     Manpong Centre for 3. in P. Medic.
medicine                                             Voacanga africana                     L.A. Iti
medicine                                             Carapa procera                        Maupong CeAtre for 3. in P. Medic.
medicine                                             C-orynaothe pachycerus                Maupong Centre for B. in P. Medic.
medicine                                             Quares cedrata                        Prof. Dempter, Univ. Cape Coast
eediine                                             Spathodia eompanmlata                 Mampong Cemtre for B. in P. bedic.
medicine                                             Matrigyna stipulosa                   lampong Ceatre for 3. in P. Medic.
medicine                                             Coal antotiea                         Prof. Demptey, cniv. Cape Coast
eodicine                                             Gripbonia simplicifolia                .A. Inti
medicine                                             Trichilia beudolotil                  Mapong Centre for B. in P. Medic.
mediecne                  akonfes atiko              Reliotropus Indico                    LA.I  Intl
sedicine                  kraoankote                 Spebenocentrum jollyaum               IL.A. htl
medicine                  keaninl                    Laauea cedrata                        Gyakati, Iti  (ODL inmentory, Inei)
sediine, apirodisiacs   hierena                     Combretua race os.                    Gyakeri  Itim JOD  inenetory, lmuasi)
medicine, apbrodisiacw   krat ankote                 Sptemocestru. jollynu u                yakarl,  ti  (IODi inventorY, funsi)
medicine, aphrodisiacs   mahogany (bark)             Ubay& ivorenmis                       Gyakari, Iti  (ODL isventory,  maEui)
medicine, exported                                   Bayolfia voitoria                     LA.I lhti
mortars                   adwes                      Dmcryoldes klaime uIP.3fI.I                            h lletin go. 6
mortars                   aftelia                    Ufselia bellr                         I.P. I., lst.  ulletia lo. 6
orturo                    difol                      borm mesosmoyia                         I        lif. Eblletin go. 6
mortars                   opope                      lauwlee  diderrichil                     I       lif. Bulletis go. 6
mosquito repellent       nAm  tree                   Asaderecwts idica                     LA.I  Intl
oil, fat                                             Petatdesnu  btyracea                   bebnrse (1980, I P.II)
oil, tat                  baWu                       tliekeelia heckelli                   Abebrese (1980, F.P.I.I.)
pestles                   akybitri                   Bligkia nijugta                         I        let. uIlletil  o. 6
pestles                   celtis a                   Celtis mildbraedii                    l.P     I    f.I lit  Bulletin go. 6
pestles                   dasta                      lesogordoais papuverifera uIP.l0  .   Is. Bulletin Io. 6
pestles                   fliatbark                  Diospiros  ansaila                    1f P        n. 1Blletin  o. 6
pets, soos                Africa  grey parrot        Psittacus erithacum                    tiaaoa-hidm, 1911
pets, goom                *gnma lizard                lama ue.                              tiatuoa-uld, 1967
pets, zoom                Bose's mositor lisard    Various ezutheatlus                     ItIauu-Dhidl, 1987



- 63 -
Annex 2-1
Pa ge  6 of 8
Table  2. 1. 1
pets. zoos                burrowing python           Calabaria reinhardtii                Otiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                chameleon                 Chameleo gracilis                     Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                Gaboon viper              Bitis gabonica                        Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                green parrot              poicephalus sp.                       Ntiaaoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                marsh terrapin            Pelusios sp.                          Otiasoa-Baidu, 1987
pets. zoos                marsh terrapin            Pelomedusa op.                       Itiasoa-Baidu, 198?
pets, zoos                millipede                  Spirostreptus sp.                    Ntiaaoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                rhinoceros viper          Bitis gabonica                        Itiasoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                rock python               Python sebae                          Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                royal python              Python regia                          Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                scorpion                  Pandinus op.                         Ntiasoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                scorpion                  Buthus sp.                           Itiaoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zooS                skink                     babuya sp.                            Ntiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                spitting cobra             laja nigricollis                     Itiamoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                toad                      Buffo sp.                            Ntiauoa-Baidu, 1987
pets, zoos                tortoise                  Geochelone op.                       Itiamoa-Baidu, 1987
rubber                                              Juntusia elastics                    A.A. Inti
sweetener, exported                                 Dioscoriaphyllua                      A.. IAnti
sweetener, exported                                 Thaumatococcus dasielli              A. Inati
sweetener, exported       miracle fruit              Synsepallum dulciphicus             L.A. Inti
tannins                                             Rhisophora 8p.                       Offei, S.A. (1970, F.P.RB.I)
tannins                                             Albizia lebbeck                      Offei, S.I. (1970, 1.P.8 I.j
tannin.                                             Pithecellobius dulcae                Offel, 5.1. (1970, F.P.L8I.)
tannin$                                             Casuarina equisetifolia              Offei, 5.1. (1970, I.P.H.II)
tannin$                                             Anacardium occidentale               Offei, 5.1. (1970, I.P.B.1)
tannins                                             Intatdrophragma angolease            Offei, S.A.  (1970, I.P.R.I.)
tannins                                             Burkea africana                      Offei, S.I.  (1970, I.P.B.I.)
tannins                                             Conocarpus erectus                   Offei, S.l. (1970, 7.P.II)
tannins                                             Anogeissus leiocarpus                Offei, S.l. (1970, I P.R I)
tannins                                             Albisia chevalieri                   Offai, S.l  (1970, 1.P.L8I.)
tanuins                                             Acacia nilotica
tannins                                             Tetrapleura tetraptera               Offei, S.A. (1970, I.P.L8I.)
tannins                                             Cassia fistula                       Offei, S.1. (1970, Y.P.RI.)
tannins                                              lugenia uniflora                     Offei, S.A. (1970, I.P.8.I.)
tannins                                             llbisia coriaris                     Offe1 , S.1. (1970, I.P.8 I.)
trays                     uindrou                   lstonia bULae                        Prof. Demptey, Univ. Cape Coast
woodwool                  afars                     Terninalia superba                   I.P.R.I., In.f Bulletin No. 6
woodwool                  akata                     Bombax buoonopozense                 I.P.B.I ., In. Bulletin No. 6
woodwool                  ceiba                     ceiba pentandra                      l.P.8.I ., Inf  Bulletin go. 6
woodwool                  idigbo                    Ternioalia ivorensis                 I.P8 I., mb. Bulletin go. 6
woodwool                  musanga                   Nusanga cecropioides                  .P.R.I., Inf. Bulletin No. 6
woodwool                  ngo-ne-nkyene             Cleistopholis patens                            lAPfR.I., In. Bulletin go. 6
wrapping material                                   Thaumatococcus danielli              Gyakari, 8ti. (ODA Inventory, luusil)
wrapping material                                   larantaceae sp.



- 64 -
Annex 2-1
Page 7 of 8
As said above, this list is not exhaustive; it includes only
species regarded as most important by the persons interviewed in Ghana, or
those  mentioned  in   papers   written   on   the   topic.    Particularly
underrepresented are the categories "food' and "medicine". A good record
of  them, however, will  be   found   in  Abbiw, Daniel  (forthcoming):
Economically Important Plants of West Africa (with special reference to
Ghana), London: Intermediate Technology.  This book, as most of the other
sources, does not include estimates of consumption, sales, or yields for
any of the products.   Thus household  surveys, market surveys, and forest
inventories ate needed in order to obtain economically meaningful data. A
research proposal including this type of fieldwork is presented in Working
Paper 4 (the list provided in this annex can be a point of departure for
such fieldwork research). Further information may be found through the
sources mentioned below.
Sources of Information:
Experts in Ghana:
1.   Prof. Asare  and  Prof. Awuzu, F.P.R.I., University  of Science and
Technology (U.S.T.), Kumasi (NTPs in general)
2.   Prof. Emanuel Asibey, Forestry Commission, Accra (bushmeat)
3.  Dr. Yaa Ntiamoa-Baidu,  Zoology  Department, Univ.  of Ghana - Legon
(bushmeat, other uses of wild animals)
4. Prof. Daniel Abbf i, Botany Department, Univ. of Ghana - Legon (useful
plants of Ghana)
5.  Mr. Manu, Game and Wildlife Department, Accra (bushmeat)
6.  Mr. Enti, Forest Resource  Enterprises, Accra   (medicinal and edible
plants; exports)
7.  Dr. Oku Ampofo, Mampong  Centre  for Research  on  Plant Medicine,
Akweping-Mampong (noth of Accra) (medicinal plants)
8.  Mr. Francois and Mr. Kesse,  Forestry  Department, Accra  (official
statistics on NTPs)
9.  Mr. Ahwoi, Export Promotion Council, Accra (information on exports of
NTPs)
10. Mr. Nkatia, F.P.R.I., Kumasi (charcoal)
11. Mr. Will Hawthorne (ODA), ODA Inventory Project, Kumasi (general
information; experience on inventories)
12. Mr. Tarnavicki, UNDP, Accra (wood fuels)
13. Dr. Elizabeth Ardayfio Schardorf, Geography Department, University of
Ghana - Legon (wood fuels)
14. National Energy Board, Accra (wood fuels)
15. Mr. Nti-a Gyakari, herborist, ODA Inventory Project, Kumasi (first-hand
information on medicinal plants)
16. Prof. Demptey, Botany Department, University of Cape Coast, Cape Coast
(general information)
Thesis and other useful documents found in Ghana:
1.  Amponsah, Samuel (thesis FPRI, 1978): chewing sticks.
2.  Abebrese, Oiusu (thesis FPRI, 1980): oil from wild seeds.
3.  Agyemang, GA  (thesis  FPRI, 1980): use  of medicine in traditional
medicine in an Ashanti village.
4.  Annan, John L. (thesis  FPRI, 1980):  the indigenous vegetable dyeing
industry in Kumasi.
5.  Darko, Ellen (thesis FPRI, 1981): survey of cane weaving in Ghana.



- 65 -
Annex 2-1
Page 8 of 8
6.   Kyei-Acheampong, J. (thesis FPRI, 1980): wood fuels in Kumasi.
7.   Osei-Owusu, A. (thesis FPRI, 1980):  survey of food obtained from wild
plants in a Ghanaian village.
8.   Asim-Nyarkoh (thesis FPRI,  1982):  use  of  wood  fuels in a Ghanaian
village.
9.   Manu, bernard K. (thesis FPRI,  1982): the development of compund leaf
in some species of meliaceae.
10. Okai E., Nii Armah (thesis; FPRI, 1983): survey of uses of wooden poles
in Kumasi.
11.  Amoah-Acheampong (thesis FPRI,  1984):  survey  of will food producing
plants in a village in the savanna.
12.  Kyei, .Yensah J.  (thesis  FPRI,  1984):  demand  for secondary forest
products in the Tarkwa region.
13. Boadi, Esther (thesis FPRI, 1985): survey of fish use in Kumasi.
14. Asamoah, Richard F. K. (thesis FPRI, 1985): uses of fallow trees and
farm practices in Ho forest district.
15. Boamah, Alexander Asare (thesis FPRI, 1986): study of tenure of trees
and forests by indigenous groups in some parts of Ghana.
16. Attah, Owusu (thesis FPRI, 1987): utilization of mill residues in
Ghana - study of Kumasi.
17. Kuma, Johnson W. (thesis FPRI, 1987): survey of charcoal production
practices in Ghana.
18. Asibey, Emmanuel (1985): Food Security and Environment: The Challenge
to Rural Poverty in Africa . World Food Day Regional Workshop. 14-16
October, Cameroon. FAO: WFD/85/03.
19.                    (1986):  Wildlife  and   Food   Security.    Document
produced for FAO.
20.                    (1987): The Grasscutter. Livestock Show 1987.  Accra:
Min. of Agriculture. August 6-10.
21.                    (1987):  Wildlife   Issues   in  Sub-Saharan  Africa.
Reference Paper  for  the  Expert  Consultation  on  Forestry and Food
Security.  Bangalore, India, 14-20 February.  Rome: FAO.
22. Ntiamoa-Baidu, Yaa (1987): "West African Wildlife: A Resource in
Jeopardy",in Unasylva No. 156, Vol. 39.
23. Report of the Expert Consultation on Forestry and Food Security,
Trivandrum/Bangalore, India. 7-20 February, 1988. Draft.
24. FPRI (1987): "End Use Guide for Ghanaian Timber Species", in FPRI
Information Bulletin, No. 6. Kumasi.
25. Siwek, K. (197?): Development of Charcoal Production in Ghana. FPRI:
mimeo.
26. Enti, A.A. (19??): Notes on the Collection of Heliotropium Indicum
Linn. in Ghana.
27. "Herbal Research Unit to Build Clinic in Accra", in The Ghanaian
Times, Saturday, March 5, 1988.
28.  Oe-i, S.A. (1970): *Tannins,  Tan  Barks, and the Traditional Tanning
Industry in Ghana", in FPRI Technical Newsletter, Vol. 4, No. 4.
Kumasi: December
Ms. Julia Falconer (Consultant at the Forestry Department, F.A.O.,
Rome; c/o Ms. Hoskins) has written more general works on non-timber
forest products, their uses and sources of information in eight West
African countries, including Ghana.    She  can also be contacted when
planning further research on this topic.



- 66 -
Annex 2-2
page 1 of 4
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Forest Fees. Concession Policy. and Actual Annual Cut in the High Forest
I. Forest Fees
A. Royalty Fees
1.        The Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources (MLNR) has proposed
to the Government a series of new and increased royalty fees. These vary
from Cedis 2,300 to Cedis 24,000 per tree (Cedis 428 to Cedis 3,745 per
merchantable m3), depending on species. The average fee, weighted
according to numbers of trees of different species felled, is Cedis
9,593/tree or Cedis 1,220/m3. This is, in real terms, 11 times the average
of the fees set in 1983, and 1.8 times the average of the fees set in 1986.
In spite of these increases, logging and wood processing remain extremely
profitable undertakings in Ghana.
2.        MLNR's proposed new royalty fee structure has been carefully
thought out. Fee increases are considerably higher for the over-used
species than for the neglected ones, so as to encourage greater use of the
latter. In this way forest exploitation will have less effect on species
composition, leading to ecological as well as economic benefits. The MLNR
has also proposed that it should in the future be easier to change royalty
fees, on the administrative rather than the political level. The appraisal
mission supported these proposals, and recommended that royalty fees should
be reviewed each year in the light of changes in FOB values of wood
products, and local costs.
3.        Although the new royalty fees proposed by MLNR would represent an
increase in real terms, they would still be very low compared to fees
calculated by deductiag costs and reasonable profit from the FOB values of
the finished products. In German marks, the currency in which FOB values
are normally denomi.-ated in Ghana, the weighted average of the proposed new
royalty fees, Cedis :,220/m3, corresponds to DM 10/m3 or about 6z of the
weighted average of the FOB value of exportable logs, less -ost of logging
and transportation. The fees weighted average would be increased in the
annual reviews to 12Z (DM20/03) and 18Z (DM30/i3) of the respective FOB
value by 1990 and 1992 respectively.
4.        When the inventory section of the Forestry Department (FD) has
been adequately strengthened through the project, royalty fees would be
charged (a) per m3 instead of per tree as is now the case; and (b) for
utilizable rather than for actually utilized wood. The former change would
make recording easier and would reduce fraud. The latter change would



- 67 -                    page 2 of 4
reduce logging waste, which is enormous in Ghanat it is generally agreed
that only about half the timber cut is used, the other half being left in
the forest. Logging waste reduction is one of the chief objectives of the
project, and the above-mentioned change in the method of calculating the
royalty would be the principal means of achieving this objective. Sales on
stump are practiced in other countries. In Ghana, where only 1-2 trees/ha
are removed, it should not be impossible for the strengthened FD to select,
mark and measure the trees that the concessionaire may fell. Nevertheless,
this change will first be introduced on an experimental scale.
B. Silvicultural Fee
5.        Besides the royalty fee, concessionaires are charged a modest fee
per ha of area worked during the year. The MLNR has proposed the abolition
of this fee, in order to simplify the forest fees system, and because (a)
it is difficult to determine the area worked by a concessionaire during a
year, and (b) the rationale for this fee was to finance enrichment planting
after each selection felling, but with only one or two trees removed per
hectare, enrichment planting is generally neither possible nor necessary.
If the Government accepts the MLNR recommendation, the effects would be
studied during the project mid-term evaluation, and the silvicultural fee
can then be reintroduced if that is found desirable.
C. Concession Rent
6.        Whereas the silvicultural fee is levied only in the area in which
a concessionaire has been active during the year, the concession rent is
levied on the whole area of the concession. MLNR has proposed that it be
raised from Cedis 2 to Cedis 20 per hectare. Even the latter figure is
very low, and the resulting concession fee would be insignificant compared
to the royalty fee payments. Some wood processors acquire concessions as
an insurance policy against possible difficulties of obtaining enough logs
from private logging contractors, and such dormant concessions are the ones
that are most prone to encroachment by squatters. It is unlikely that even
the proposed tenfold increase in concession rent will be sufficient to
activate the dormant concessions.
7.        It was implied in paragraph 1 above that even if the new
increased royalty fees proposed by MLNR are accepted by se Government, the
combined forest fees payable by the private concessionaires will still be
very low. It has been estimated that for example the stumpage fees could
be increased at least sevenfold, and yet logging and wood processing would
still remain highly profitable undertakings. Another problem, besides the
fact that the forest fees are still too low, is that the stumpage fees,
which make up by far the greater proportion of these fees, are levied at a
flat fee for each species, without taking into consideration the enormous
differences in concessionaires' costs depending on how accessible a given
forest area is.
8.        For the reasons mentioned in the previous paragraph, it is
desirable to introduce the play of the market in the forest fee system.



- 68 -
The project would do this through the concession rent, rather than through
the stumpage fees. When expired and forfeited concessions are reallocated,
applicants will be asked to state how much they would be willing to pay in
concession rent over and above the official figure, which would thus be
considered as a minimum floor value, and the information provided by the
applicant in this respect would be taken into consideration in the
concession allocation, together with other criteria. For each concession
allocated according to the new system, the rent would be adjusted every
five years according to a formula the detai.", of which should be agreed
upon, but which should incorporate the weighted mean FOB value of the 10-15
species accounting for the greatest export value, and the local costs of
harvesting, transport and processing.
II. Concession Policy
9.        To make concessionaires more interested in tLe care and
protection of their concessions, the latter would be awarded for periods of
up to fifty years. To allow for more viable units which can be continually
worked, concessions would as far as possible be for areas of not less than
10,000 ha. To rationalize concession management, a Concessions Unit would
be set up within FD. Responsibility for management and administration of
all concessions, inside as well as outside Reserves, would be established
within the Concessions Unit not later than in the thi_d year of the
project.
III. Actual Annual Cut, and Potential Revenue
A. Actual Annual Cut
10.       Statistics on the quantities of logs and processed forest
products exported, and on the quantities used locally, indicate a roundwood
equivalent of 1.35 million m3 p.a.. As for every cubic meter of wood taken
out of the forest and used, about the same amount is said to be le:t in the
forest as logging waste (para 4 above), a yield of 1.35 million m3 may
correspond to a cut of as much as 2.7 million m3. Even if this estimate
may be on the high side, it is safe to say that the present actual annual
cut is far higher than the currently estimated sustainable (allowable)
annual cut. This shows how irmportant it is to strengthen FD. It also
shows the enormous economic benefits which can be obtained from logging
waste reduction.
B. Total Revenue fro Forest Fees
11.       At present some Cedis 100 million p.a. are collected in forest
fees by FD and Lands Department. This is only about a sixth of what should
be paid by concessionaires in stumpage fees alone, even at the present very
low fees. This indicates that by strengthening FD, and improving the
collection rate, the project would yield a very high financial rate of
return. With a better collection rate, and increased forest fees, there is



rage 4 o. 4
- 69 _
a possibility that the forest concessions could finance FD not only in the
five high forest regions, but in the whole of Ghana. Trhe table below
'ndicates the forest revenues that could be obtained during the project
period by FD if its collection rate is improved:
Forest Revenues Obtainable by FD if Collection Rate is Improved
Unit    '89    '90    '91    '92    '93    '94
Yield (note 1)            '000 m3   1450   1450   1450   1450   1450   1450
Average royalty fee       cedilm3   1220   1220   2440   2440   3660   3660
Forest revenue due:
- total royalty         ¢ million   1769   1769   3538   3538   5307   5307
- other revenue (2)    ¢ million    177    177    3,4    354    531    531
- total due             ¢ million   1946   1946   3892   3892   5838   5838
Projected collection
rate                         Z         25     30     35      40     45      50
Revenue collected (3)  e million    136    487    584   1362   1557  2627
Table Notes
(1)  In 1987 the yield or wood use in Ghana was 1.35 million m3 (para 10
above), and rising rapidly.  It is assumed that it will have risen to 1.45
million m3 even before the project has begun, and that it can be maintained
at that level while at the same time decr'tasing the cut through logging
waste reduction.
(2) Concession rent and miscellaneous feas, estimated at 102 of the total
royalty revenue.
(3) Assuming a one year lag in the revenue collection, e.g. the estimated
1990 revenue of Cedis 487 million is the reeut of collecting 25? of the
Cedis 1,946 million due in 1989.  The 1989 revenue of Cedis 136 million is
the result of collecting 20? of Cedis 679 million due in 1988. For 1989
the royalty fees proposed in 1988 by NLNR have been assumed. For later
years it has been assumed that these fees would be increased to bring them
more in line with the economic value of timber in Ghana (para 3).
(For details regarding subjects dealt with in this Annex, see Working Paper
3.)



- 70 -
Annex 3-1
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
Forest Resource Management Proiect
Program of Policy Reforms
1.        Policy reforms critical to future efficiency, productivity and
viability of the forcatry sector are:
(a) a revised formula for determining and a new system for promptly
and adequately revising forestry fees. This is essential to
enable the sector to recover the full cost of managing the forest
resource and, furthermore, for it to start making a positive
revenue contribution that could be utilized for maintaining and
expanding the forestry resource in future. Forestry fees are to
be established at a level that reflect the full and chaining
market value of the forest products. While royalty rates
introduced in 1986 were 10-15 times higher than the 1983 rates,
they were still two to five times below prices charged in felling
agreements and were thus too low even at the time they were
introduced. Furthermore, fees become quickly outdated and each
revision requires legislation and PNDC approval. The proposal
now is to reform the system in a manner that would facilitate
such revision based on a formula linked to the FOB average
weighted value of exportable logs, and one that could promptly be
approved and implemented by the highest authority in the forestry
secto., without resort to the PNDC;
(b)  a rationalization of the concession system and the intrcduction
of a market oriented approach to concession allocation. There is
a strong need for ensuring that concessions are large enough for
effective forest management and felling control and are granted
for periods of time long enough to retain the concessionaire's
interest in protecting and working the concession according to
correct silvicultural practice. There is an equally urgent need
that concessions be allocated on the basis of objective criteria.
At present, concession allocation is a cumbersome and tedious
process fraught with long delays and one, which lacks a
systematic and just procedure for grant of concessions. Under
the proposed reform, both the length of time and the size of
concession would be increased, and a system of concession
allocation introduced, whereby, specific weights agreed to in
advance, would determine award of the concession;
(c) a restructuring of salary levels that takes account of the severe
and prolonged morale probiem in key forestry sector institutions.
Existing staff incentives are grossly inadequate and have been
the cause of lack of motivation, poor staffing and high vacancies
within the forestry sector. The ED in particular, has, over the



- 71 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2 of 4
years, been losing vell trained foresters to other African
countries. At present, the fill ratio of authorized positions in
the PD is 342 for professional and 462 for technical staff.
Without new grade levels based on revised job descriptions and
titles, and the introduction of new field and risk allowances,
the high level of protection and minimum standards of manL6ement
of the forest resource that government policy seeks to achieve
through the project will not be possible. It is proposed that an
improved system of staff renumeration which specifically
addresses the problem of low morale and unfilled vacancies be
introduced without further delay.
2.        Additional proposed reforms relating to: (1) a revised statement
of forestry policy; (2) a sector strategy based on updated data and
inventories, stronger analysis of the benefits of resource protection,
.mintenance of agricultural productivity and longer term benefits from the
forestry sector; (3) amendments to the existing law governing protection of
game and wildlife reserves; (4) strict regulations governing fires and bush
burning; and (5) a review of Government's policy banning the exports in log
form of 18 species of trees as a means of protecting the domestic wood
processing industry, would further strengthen the core program of policy
reforms.
3.        The total cost of the quick disbursing component is US$15.0
million which would be used to finance imports of equipment and services
for the forestry sector, as they are included on the positive list of
imports. Funds would be disbursed in two equal tranches of US$7.5 million
as followss the first tranche at credit effectiveness provided that,
firstly, royalty fees have been increased to a level of 62 of the weighted
average of the FOB value of exportable logs; secondly, gazetting of the new
criteria determining concession allocation, with concession rent offered by
each aspiring concessionaire carrying a weight of at least 402, increasing
the period of concession to 50 years and fixing the minimum size of each
concession at 10,000 hectares, has taken place, and thirdly, that a field
and risk allowance of at least 202 of base salaries and wages has been
introduced for field staff of the FD and the Game and Wildlife Department
(GWD); and, the second tranche 18 months later by mid-1990 provided that,
firstly, royalty fees have been revised upwards to 122 of the weighted
average FOB value of exportable logs by about mid-1990; secondly, the
weight of the concession rent offered by each applicant is in the process
of being increased to at least 50S; and thirdly, specific recommendations
on the question of further improvements in staff incentives and recruitment
have been made based on the progress that would have been monitored up
until then.



T -VAoaw -            W
Rom" PROWMI - aJuCY K%MV
fV  OF R                          oiScTvE    t          WDZi ACTI   M                DCTWB TM   TO  ATE             PCT1   TO N TAXt                 ArIo  TO NE TA1 0m
Fi rot Tread,.                  Saeoad Trench
(at affct;vna)                  (opproximtely aid 1990)
Forestry  rawn         bnreas  fortery f*s torn    Ltroducta, of a revenue*          The tfin I Wtr of Land and     l elty   rate. to ha bicraseed    Ramltp rate  to be increeee     Further incr_. In royalty
level that mid enabe the   forWIl that Wuld link the  totural Reoaroe  (h I                 to sl lerve ato ao    *   of  o preent of    to 1U percent of ftAclghte  rete to is porcent_ of te
ctr to racover the full    levl of roelfy rate, to te   aubaitted to the .DC a ne           t the weighted averan  FS        average PFM veime of             weighted aveg. Re Value of
eost of masaging the forasry  eeighted ewe.. of the  _I at of prppeams recomendig  value of exportable tog.                  .aortele  Ig. lesm co_   of   eaportable logs. le   cot of
to strt sening a positIe      value of eaportale lo gs        a Inc_rese to roalty rat..  low_, cos of loggin  an            loging aed trwamortetion         lagging and traneperutaln
reenie contribution                                         mad la anetita    its aprpwol   tr_n _port.tion                                                  WI _I needed  y .hnury 1902
btbiWa m ept  that ould  aNi     e                                                                                            Clea  _nitaw1 ng of an
reie. reri  NWd prowtip                                                                                                        advere e?fects of Increaese
til,t mm r,_    altg rot".                                                                                                     in royalty rates ma
_ _d ohm ccrrated by                                                                                                           incentives N the   l_ tb
_earket conditien,                                                                                                             aft tO ftere  indnr
will ha rewirad
Comeesl  Al lecatlen    ationellee the _rc een_ien     AtreA*cti. of a nm ot of    N.                               Maw procedures e  caneesi,       The  ait for  cancrie  ren   1Mev th  s  criteri  for
e_,ts. Nad  tredaace a        crlteria fod alloet_os of                                     allacotin fo be iasettew         offered by emt applitcant to    e_rt.i_n ellaeatle. the
mot-erimnted approacI sam. Thee. caritalnndenc  publlicly                                                                    ecal ig aPi mt's prapasel  Period for which emceamsle
to o_im *lleatien            cwuld  ccr      ghts NW caud                                                                    will ha *  1 I_ med to iS percet are greeted nr  ha *Imrsoned
ielule tenm   cpeif.                                          Th ceigh give. for mceeei_e  end  g             m  timatebito   to IS yara ad the area of
leging plmas WA omciie                                        rnt offared by ago sppIcant  lacreee  tola ein   to  0            ak mcee.ie  to a 01iam,
rent effered by eadb                                          int ec aiag1 applicant's        porcent                          of   *go0       no
_ppli1emt. Tel  al                                            propeaml will ha ask W1ised
apsip ad Ileging ple                                          at a mn1*1i  of 40  ret
*eud acd ha qnlw   a
insigh of  -.S WAd
c_encie. ren affred a
nsight I 84
(0 9
w"0



rmu i_~i   jer
-        OW  - POLIY MOM
A     F OP     8wNE                                    UiC  Vi3                     AIIge TM   TO DIAE            ACrIl TO TOK   iM It EGa TAOMC  aCUS
tff Incentives         Iftrove st  Emig ad           intrfdcbion of  ecial          Writte  ceeltment by MMt f  intredctien Of * ePecIl          An ovenrrll review seaming      b     er tat         " mivd
and Racn.itent         aetivation at ktow intittiona field ad Fish aIlosanc         Sada    a   special field an  field a   risk at lemm. of      progve" NW_ to dote by tha    awAit to M  for ravoie. the
In the forestry setor, In    raIngin from U-401 of          riso 1euac. of 20 of the  3  of th, bareen e rise an           90 Nd the*m   is th  *m        rationIa for r"eiien end
perticular at th  Forestry    teb he  _elarie  NW _s"r    barse  larirn md age of    seem of field  teff In the            Of pee s_*an   and too fill  r_I  epel* fee edjuatast of
Aepertm_nt (PO) Nd the ONe   of fild eteff in th  P          ef I aheO Pd rd the am.             aN  the 4IIb. rtio.  _Irlly atdStaff as   its d1lry end incantive
owV ldlIfe beartat            aNW the W.                                                                                   prefeast aw tliCal              Otructlre.
(CMe.                                                                                                                      levels.
Trade PolIcy           Adptian ofeptisa  trade       Aseaesst of' ecensic           No"                                                           cplion of *%edy it  mace        SeOd en VW result. of the
poIIcyn lnetmat for          i.lcetion  of bv.rnewit's                                                                    offetiVonsep of the be    S a   e  dy, if it turn  Ws thAt.
Preseting the *fficle_cy of   policy of ueing the ban a.                                                                   policy inat runt fer both       ion the interet of emem;c
the deestie wood procesin   export iO legl fere of 1a                                                                      cerving th  forest "n           effiiency. _s elid be
i1d_stry.                    epeciga   ftree to the                                                                        preeecting the deaei usd    mibetituted by ether tede
priery poliCY 1netran fer                                                                    pre_ming indutr. WA  the        policy inat ft. than
proiding infeat lnu3r                                                                       preparation of a hitherbs       th_a  alterntive Palicy
proteection tote ds_ tic                                                                     ared we, atien plan,            toals. abeud sp*ly ft ell
~~~                          see~~~~~~od procegaing" industy and                                                                                          Sweissgaaitgt oeeetign.
S                          _~~~~ceerving th  foes rmsro.                             -_.
rving he reults of the
tdy an protection to the
de Isic sew  rocesing
industr and the trade Pol Icy
altoreetivee thatk meld
*mergg as the eptisel. a
long ft"ar tnte ed matis"
plan given bvernsente
Overall policy of evooindr
yield sneagimet fee tha
fereety reurce., would he
cespletd .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



- 74 -
Annex 3-2
GHANA
Forest Resource Management ProJect
Letter of Sector Development Policy
Hr. Edward V.K. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region,
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
Res Forest Resource Management Proiect
Policy Reform Program
As part of its Economic Recovery Program and its Environmental
Policy, the Government of Ghana is initiating an action program of policy
and institutional reforms for the Forestry Sector.  This statement outlines
the objectives of such a program and the framework within which the reforss
have been formulated.
Ghana's forestry sector has been, and continues to be, vital to
the economy through its contribution to export eaxnings, government
revenue, employment and supply of fuelwood and timber for its rapidly
expanding population.  Historically, forestry and logging have accounted
for about five to six percent of GDP and have provided employment for an
estimated 70,000 persons   They have ranked high in commodity exports, only
third next to cocoa and minerals. Along with the overall decline in
economic activity that had set in during the 1970s and which continued on
into the early 19806, the forestry sector, too, deteriorated rapidly.
However, the Government's strong commitment to reversing this worrisome
slide prompted it to taking urgent corrective action in the form of a
series of difficult macroeconomic and sector reforms. These efforts were
also supported by World Bank and IMF assistance, particularly, the Bank's
Export Rehabilitation Credit, which played a pivotal role in the sector's
impressive recovery starting 1983.
Although the forestry sector's production and exports have
rebounded, the cost to the resource base of the resultant unrestrained
logging has been significant. The key institutions that are responsible
for overseeing sectnr activities have been unable to cope with its vigorous
resurgence over the last few years. The Government is now faced with the



Annex 3-2
Page 2 of 4
-75 -
resurgence over the last few years. The Government is now faced with the
dilemma of conserving the forest resource in a manner that would enable
production in perpetuity on the one hand, and of providing fuelwood and
timber needs to its people, and logs and w,od products to its foreign
markets, on the other. We are aware that a satisfactory resolution to the
critical problem of resource depletion, forest degeneration, low
productivity and substantial logging waste would have to go much beyond
alleviating the mare physical constraints through the provision of
vehicles, machinery and spare parts. We recognize that what is needed is a
series of policy reforms that would address the sector's key issues and
place it on a path of economic efficiency, without the now all too fumiliar
constraint of insufficient funding.
The Government's key objective, then, is to ensure the supply of
fuelwood, logs, lumber and wood products to its domestic and foreign
markets as the case may be, and to prevent further environmental
degradation due to forest depletion. However, this twin objective is to be
achieved within the all important policy constraint of managing the forest
on a sustained yield basis. in order to meet the stated objective,
Government is convinced of the need to restructure the sector through
implementation of a policy reform program. The policy reforms may be
divided into core policy reforms which would lay the basic framework for
reform, and other strategic reforms, primarily legislative and
institutional actions, which would affirm and lend credence to the former.
Given the need for sustained yield management, policy reforms
critical to achieving high standards of technical and economic efficiency
of forest and logging operations, relate to a more effective forest revenue
policy, rationalization of the concession allocation procedures and
introduction of a market oriented approach to concession allocation,
improvement in staff incentives and recruitment, and trade policy. In each
of these broad areas, the Government intends to carry out the following
specific ref'rms:
(1) to mobilize additional revenue from its forest resource in line
with the full cost of managing the forest on a sustained yield
basis, the Government proposes to apply royalty rates that
reflect market prices. This will be achieved during the period
1989-92, by increasing forestry fees progressively to a level of
18X of the FOB value of commercial logs, less cost of logging and
transportation. Furthermore, in the initial years of
implementation, as the Forestry Department (FD), the principal
forestry sector institution is able to strengthen its inventory
section, royalty fees would be charged on the basis of volume
rather than on a per tree basis as is presently the case.
Adoption of this method would significantly enhance revenLJ
through more accurate recording, and would also provide an
Incentive to reduce the overly large logging waste currently
estimated at over 502. To ensure appropriate revisions in
royalty rates, as and when warranted by changing conditions in
domestic and international markets, provision would be made for



- 76 -
prompt review and implementation of updated rates under
authorization of the Secretary, MLNR.
(2) to rationalize the concession allocation procedures and to adopt
a market oriented approach to concession allocation, the
Government proposes to introduce, forthwith, a new set of
criteria in the award of cancessions. These criteria would take
account of technical capacity, logging plans and concession rent
offered by each applicant, according to predetermined and agreed
upon weights. Concession rent offered would initially carry a
minimum weight of 40Z, but this would, by mid-1990, be revised
upwards to 5OZ; Government will prepare a time schedule to
further increase this to 60 percent. In addition, as a means of
promoting the concessionaire's long term interest in the
concession and ensuring the viability of each concession, the
length of period for, and the total area of, each concession
would be increased to 25-50 years, and to a minimum of 10,000
hectares, except where not feasible, respectively;
(3) to improve staff incentives with a view to enhancing motivation
and morale, the Government would introduce a special field
allowance of at least 20Z of the present base salaries and wages
of Forestry Department (FD) and Game2and Wildlife Department
(GWD) field staff. Since understaffing continues to be a chronic
problem, staff recruitment within the FD and the GWD at
professional and technical levels would also be stepped up and
the fill-ratio closely monitored. On an annual basis,
approximately 12-14 professional and 15-18 technical staff would
be absorbed by the FD, and about 6-8 professional and 10-12
technical staff by the GWD. Both these actions are aimed at
ensuring effective protection of the forest reserves which is
currently at an ebb and highly unsatisfactory;
(4) to investigate alternative trade policy options for
rehabilitating and further developing Ghana's wood processing
industry, as well as preserving the environment, Government's
policy of using the ban on exports in log form will be
reassessed. The Government intends to commission a study for
thoroughly reviewing the rationale for, and the optimal means of
-'ncreasing productivity and efficiency in the sector. Until an
action plan has been proposed, considering the recommendations of
the study, the Government will not impose further bans on the
export of roundwood logs beyond the 18 species subject to the ban
as of October 1, 1988. Finally, given Government's policy
objective of sustained yield management, a strategy and action
plan, with particular reference to the implications for capacity
expansion and utilization in the industry, would be prepared and
implemented.
Institutional and legislative actions that would complement the
core policy program are designed to address the-urgent need for: (i)



Annex 3-2
77 -                      Page 4 of 4
developing a methodology that would adequately quantify environmental
benefits and losses attributable to forest depletion. This would form the
basis for formulating a meaningful policy and sector strategy for the
forestry sector, and would require a considerably stronger institutional
capacity for data collection and economic analysis than that which
currently exists; (ii) legislation and amendments to existing PNDC Laws
governing forest fires, bush burning, and protection of game and wildlife;
(iii) promoting tree planting and cultivation on a large scale, through
testing and introducing suitable agro-forestry and community forestry
packages; and efficient extension system' and (iv) streamlining and
strengthening key institutions in the forestry sector that are involved in
operation and management of the resource, and research, education and
training.
It is the Government's firm resolve to institute, without delay,
this package of policy reforms, so that it may start to have an immediate
bearing on performance and productivity of Ghana's forestry sector - a
forestry sector that clearly recognizes the indispensable need for
*f         protecting and conserving the forest resource, and one that is able to, in
its day-to-day management. balance environmental concerns with concerns for
the adequate fulfillment of demand for the very many rich benefits that
this resource has to offer. We firmly believe that the policy reform
program will lay the foundation of and pave the way for an economically
efficient and financially stable forestry sector.
Yours faithfully,
(Dr. Kwesi Botchwey)
PNDC Secretary for Finance
and Economic Planning



- 78 -                      Annex 3-3
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FOREST MANAGEMENT
Objectives and Scope
1.        The objective of this component is to improve management of
Ghana's forest resources to meet domestic and export needs for timber,
veneer and plywood, fuelwood and non-wood forest products on a sustained
yield basis, while at the same time increasing the area and improving the
management of conservation forests in the protection, Working Circles of
reserves and in National Parks and Game Production Units (GPUs). The
ProductLon Working Circles would be managed on a sustained yield basis
(i.e. production equals increment of the forest) with a view to conserving
the T¶ropical High Forest (THF) ecosystem for protection of watershed,
stability of rainfall, and conservation of plants and animals. The
Protection Working Circles, National Parks and Game Production Units would
be managed for conservation purposes, but not exploited for timber. Tnis
component is confined to the Tropical Forest Zone and focusses particularly
on gazetted forest reserves and areas of THF outside reserves that still
have closed canopy forest.
2.        Detailed objectives include:
(a) Applying sustained yield management to the Forest Reserves by (i)
allowable cut; (ii) area control; (iii) minimum girth.
(b) Preparing Working Plans for the Forest reserves.
5c) Saving what is left of the THF outside forest reserves by
bringing it under voluntary participatory management.
(d) Finding out what the plantations in the forest zone contain and
what species have been successful on what sites.
Ce) Strengthening the capability of the Forestry Department (FD) to
manage the reserves in the Forest Regions.
(f) Surveying the Protection Working Circles, National Parks and GPUs
to find the rare and special flora.
(g) Measuring the increment of the forest and the size of the growing
stock in forest reserves.
Ih) Increasing revenue through better supervision and control of the
logging operation.



Annex 3-3
79                       Page2 of 6
Rationale
3.        The THF is a valuable resource providing timber for export and
the home market and many non.wood products that contribute to the diet and
livelihood of rural people. In addition, the forest contributes to
watershed protection and climatic stability. It is also a storehouse of
diverse genetic resources, whose full potential has still to be explored.
The forest reserves are coming under increasing threat from the
rural population, who wish to extend slash and burn agriculture into the
reserves since soil fertility is initially high where forest has grown for
centuries undisturbed. The forest reserves are also under threat from
over-exploitation by concessionaires, who are able to cut trees where they
want, not observe the minimum girth, and waste valuable timber by leaving
it in the forest. The FD are demoralised by poor wages and lack of
incentives. Transport to supervise Forest Guards in the field is not
available. The reserve boundaries are not cleared, and so farmers cannot
see if they are encroaching on the reserve. The reason for investigating
the volume and increment in the forest plantations is to find out which
species grew best on particular sites and how fast they grow. In the
medium to long term, plantations in the forest zone would be able to ease
the pressure on the THF because plantations can have an increment that is
at least 10 times as great as the natural forest.
4.        The THF is a fragile ecosystem.  Overcutting causes large holes
in the canopy, into which climbers and fast growing secondary species
(Husanga and shrubs of the Euphorbiaceae) invade. The valuable redwood
species (Meliaceae) cannot compete with these pioneer species, and the
forest is degraded to secondary growth of low-value species. Hence the
need for carefully controlled exploitation. Further botanical work is
needed to identify areas of special floristic interest. The ODA Forest
inventory, which records 700 timber species, nas concentrated on the trees
that reach timber size. One characteristic feature of THF is the pressure
of many plant life forms such as climbers, epiphytes, shrubs and ground
flora. These life forms have not been explored in the THF in Ghana as
thoroughly as the timber size trees. We need to identify areas of
important species composition and floristic diversity for conservation. A
reduction in the forest biomass leads to a reduction in the local
convectional rain showers and shorten the effective rain season. This in
turn leads to an increase in the incidence of dry season fires, which creep
through the dry leaves on the forest floor bursting into flames
sporadically and killing the regeneration of fire-tender forest species.
This climatic process can be seen in action in the dry semi-deciduous
forest in the vicinity of Kumasi.
Activities
5.        Activities to be carried out include the following:  (a)
strengthening the Forest Department Working Plans Branch; (b) forest
inventory inside Forest Reserves; tc) forest inventory and management
outside the forest reserves; td) survey and rehabilitation of existing



Annex 3-3
- 80 -                      Page 3 of 6
plantation; (e) strengthening of High Forest Zone Departments at the
Regional level; and (f) buffer zone development around forest reserves.
6.        Strengthening the Forest Department Working Plans Branch.  The
project would strengthen the Planning Branch of the FD and assist in the
preparation of working plans for the 1.1 million ha of gazetted forest
reserves in the Production Working Circles. This would enable the FD to
prepare harvesting schedules based on the inventory data of standing volume
and apply the national allowable cut to individual reserves or groups of
reserves in one concession. In addition the Working Plans Branch would:
(a) investigate better methods of managing and controlling the yield from
the THF on a sustained yield basis; (b) provid_ overall su.pervision for the
stock mapping carried out by concessionaires and District Forest officers;
(c) centralize data from the stock mapping teams for direct comparison with
inventory data; anl (d) uapdate concession information on a computer data
base. Camping, field equipment and transport would be provided for the
field work. Technical assistance in the form of the Forest Management
specialist would be provided.
7.        Forest Inventory Inside Reserves.  The ongoing inventory would be
extended to cover all the remaining gazetted forest reserves in the high
forest zone (600,000 ha). The current sampling design would continue to be
used but the sampling fraction would be adjusted according to the level of
accuracy needed to ensure a reliable minimum estimate of the volume of
commercial timber available. The project would continue remeasuring the
859 existing permanent sample plots and would establish 500 new ones.
Sampling the Protection Working Circles, National Parks and Game Production
Units would require the special skills of a knowledgeable botanist. The
genetic value of the forest is represented in two components: populations
of rare species and genetic reserves of widespread timber trees, which,
although not now under threat, now may well become so outside protected
areas in the near future. An inventory would aim to: (a) provide complete
lists of species for each area categorised according to the Hall and Swaine
classification; (b) indicate variation in species with changes in attitude,
topography and landscape/geomorphological features; and (c) provide a
computer data base of species on the different sites.
8.        It is envisaged that this work would be done by qualitative
listing of species rather than formal inventory. All species would have to
be recorded, including.non-tree life forms. The project would finance the
salaries of additional staff; field subsistence of laborers carrying out
the inventory work; eight 4 WD vehicles and 5 4WD lorries; and additional
camping, field and office equipment. The project would provide satellite
imagery and aerial photography of the project area.
9.        Forest Inventory and Participatory Hanagement Outside Forest
Reserves. Initially, satellite imagery and aerial photographs would be
prc.vided to map the area of high forest outside reserves, and subsequently
socio-economic surveys would be undertaken to provide a framework of action
for the development of participatory management systems, which involve
local communities and their leaders. Finally forest management systems



.age 4 ot 6
- 81 -
would be developed, involving local people in the management of the
resource and in stable agricultural systems that do not rely on "slash and
burn' agriculture. For the success of this component it wcald be necessary
to establish individual and community rights of 'tree tenure, using as a
precedent the rights that farmers have on the land and on the crop when
they establish cocoa farms. Forest inventory and management would be the
last phase of the program with pleas prepared for communities that involved
the land that would remain under trees and land that would be managed on
sustainable agricultural systems. The project would finance the cost of
satellite imagery and aerial photography, the salary of a local consultant
to undertake socio-economic studies and the salaries of the inventory
staff, 2 4WD vehicles, 2 4WD lorries, camping, field and office equipment.
10.       Survey and Rehabilitation of Existing Plantations.  The existing
industrial forest plantations (30,000 ha) would be mapped and a low
intensity inventory would be carried out to obtain an estimate of the
standing volume. Approximately 100 permanent sample plots would be
established to sample the major plantation species, age classes and site
types in order to provide much needed information on the increment of
plantations. Soil surveys and site studies would provide information on
plantation growth in relation to site. Marketing and economic studies
would be conducted to find out the long term value cf establishing
plantations. A long term plan for industrial plantations outside reserves
would be drawn up, in order to meet the future demand for timber from
plan;atiors and ease the pressure on the natural forest. The project would
finance sal.aries, field subsistence, camping equipment and transport for
the mapping, inventory and growth studies. Finance for local consultants
to conduct a soil survey, and for plantation rehabilitation, would also be
included.
11.       Strengthening of High Forest Zone Forest Departments at the
Regional Level. The basic infrastructure of the forest management services
at the regional level in the high forest zone would be built up in order to
enable them to improve their capability to monitor logging operation,
protect forest reserves and to supervise the plantation rehabilitation
program. The project would support the development of a fire protection
and anti-encroachment program utilising FD staff and farmers living
adjacent to the forest reserves. The fire protection program would include
clearing and maintaining forest reserve boundaries along cutlines, and
planting fruit, pole and fuelwood trees in 50-metre strips where
appropriate to establish buffer zones. Fire protection teams would be
maintained during the critical fire danger seasons.
12.       Technical Assistance.  A total of 156 staff months of technical
assistance would be provideds
Forest Management and Logging       48 months
Forest Inventory                    30 months
Mensuration                         30 months
Forest Botany                       24 months
Forest Plantation Management        24 months



- -L, J UL u
-82 -
Job descriptions and terms of reference are given in Working
Paper 6.
13.       Organization and Management.  The Planning Section in Kumasi
would be the centre of operations for the inventory of the forest reserves,
inventory and participating management outside reserves, and survey and
rehabilitation of the forest plantations. The structure of the Planning
Section is shown in the diagram below. It would have two support units, a
computing unit where the data from the inventories and permanent sample
plots would be analyzed, and the Timber Concessions data base would be
updated. In the survey and Mapping Unit maps would be prepared for the
Working Plans and satellite imagery and aerial photography would be
interpretated. Forest inventory inside the reserves would be continued by
the inventory unit organized as it is under the existing ODA project. The
unit responsible for identification of the areas outside reserves still
having closed canopy THF would operate separately from the inventory unit.
Forest inventory and management plans would follow after initial
sociological studies have identified the approach to participatory
management. The unit responsible for plantation rehabilitation would
operate under the Plantation Management Specialist, who would be
responsible initially for surveying, mapping and inventory up the existing
plantations. Plantation rehabilitatioz would be carried out under the
Regional Forest Officers with advice on treatment from the Plantation
Management Specialist.
14.       At the Regional level in the five forest zone Regions - Ashanti,
Brong-Ahafo, Western Central and Eastern - the Working Plans would be
implemented. In addition the existing work force at District level would
be deployed in clearing forest reserve boundaries and planting fruit trees
and clearly recognizable exotic species in a buffer zone outside the
reserves. Fire line cutting and fire fighting would be conducted at
Regional level.  In order to strengthen the liaison between the Working
Plans Branch and the Regional and District officers a liaison officer would
be established with duties as followss check on the implementation of the
Working Plans to ensure that allowable cut, girth limits, orderly
sequential felling of coupes are adhered to. The liaison officer would
explain the prescriptions of the Working Plans to the local Forest officers
and run training courses on forest management.
15.       The project would finance:  new buildings (9 officea, 17 staff
house), vehicles (23 4WD vehicles, 4 4WD vehicle and 9 tractors to replace
old equipment), communication equipment, office, field and camp equipment,
nursery and plantation tools and uniforms for technical officers and Forest
Guards. The total estimated cost of Forest Management activities inn the
forest zone would be ¢ 2.7 billion (US$12.8 million) including physical and
price contingencies. This is broken down as follows:



Annex 3 3
Page 6 of 6
- 83 -
e  million       $ million
Investments                              1.6              7.3
Recurrent                                0.5              2.3
Physical contingencies                   0.1              0.9
Price contingencies                      0.5              2.2
TOTAL                                    2.7             12.7
The foreign exchange component is ¢ 1.8 billion (US$8.5 million).



Annex 3-4
- 84 -                      Page 1 of 8
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEHENT PROJECT
Rural Forestry
Objectives and Scope
1.        The broad aims of the Rural Forestry Component are to promote the
planting, protection and management of trees on land outside forest
reserves, by communities and by individuals, to reduce the risks of
environmental deterioration and increase supplius of wood and other tree
products. Detailed objectives, which would focus on priority districts in
the Upper West, Upper East, Northern, Volta, Eastern and Greater Accra
Regions, would includes
(a) strengthening of the Forest Department by creation of a Rural
Forestry Division;
(b) upgrading of existing nurseries, construction of new nurseries
and production and distribution of about 7 million seedlings
which, when planted, should occupy an equivalent of about 3,000
hal
5C) intensification of forestry extension and publicity efforts
through a strengthening of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
Extension Services and support to non-government organizations;
and
(d) development and demonstration of agroforestry packages.
Additional aims would include the development of approaches to involving
rural populations living outside forest reserves in the high forest zone in
forest management, and rehabilitation of savanna zone forest reserves in
areas of dense populations and fuelvood deficit.
Rationale
2.        In Ghana there is a depletion of tree cover, primarily the result
of increases in human population which have not been accompanied by a
pro-rata increase in agricultural productivity. This has the following
impactst (a) reduction of agricultural productivity through soil
degradation as a result of both deterioration of structure and loss through
wind and water erosion; (b) siltation of Lake Volta and other reservoirs as
a direct result of the soil erosion; and (c) reductions in the availability
of tree products including commercial timber resources, fuelwood,
traditional building materials and fruit, fodder, etc.



.  Ax.1   -- a .
- 85 -                    Page 2 of 8
3.        Estimates of consumption and supplies of fuelwood in Ghana
suggest that, as a whole, the country faces a fuelvood deficit by the turn
of tne century and that new resources must be created if even greater
losses of tree stocks are not to occur. Areas of severe shortages already
exist, especially in the Upper East Region, where agricultural residues
have replaced fuelwood for domestic energy needs. Apart from those living
in deficit areas, a shortage of wood is generally not perceived as a
problem among rural populations.
4.        Efforts to redress these problems are unlikely to be successful
without considering the customs and problems of rural populations and
obtaining their active involvement in the planting, protection and
management of trees on and adjacent to farmland. The Forest Department
(PD) has hitherto seen its role as being the protection and management of
forest reserves and is not at present adequately equipped to engage fully
in such activities as management of trees outside the reserves or assisting
rural populations to engage in tree planting. The Ministry of Agriculture,
while having recognized the importance of agroforestry in sustainable
farming systems has neither the expertise nor the staff to be able to
promote suitable packages.
5.        Additional constraints to implementing a forestry program outside
the reserves include customary land and tree tenure traditions and existing
laws, relatively slow tree growth rates in the major deficit areas,
traditional attitudes toward trees, negative attitudes towards the Forest
Department arising out of its role in excluding people from forest
reserves. undervaluation of the time women spend in gathering fuelwood,
methods of animal husbandry which make use of free range grazing, and
uncontrolled bush-burning practices.
6.        The Government has recognized the need to address these problems.
The Forest Department is considered to be the agency most suited to take a
leading role in promoting rural forestry in the country as it has
specialized knowledge about trees and also the capacity to produce
seedlings. However, it requires considerable strengthening to be able to
become an effective agent of change. This strengthening must come z!hrough
a reorganization to give rural forestry a higher profile in the Department,
including training, agroforestry research and improved infrastructure and
mobility. Better coordination between ongoing projects in rural forestry
is necessary as well as support to other government and non-government
organizations involved. Besides leading and coordinating, FD would be in
charge of community forestry (CF) extension and of the production of forest
tree seedlings, while MOA would be in charge of extension services to
individual farmers and for the production of fruit tree seedlings, FAO/UNDP
is planning to establish an agroforestry (AF) unit within MOA, but the
project does include funds for that, for the eventuality that the FAO/UNDP
plan does not materialize. In the recent past, NGOs such as ADRA,
Amasachina and GNVO have been helped by the Peace Corps and USAID in their
field activities through nuriery operation.
Activities
7.        Activities to be carried out under the project would include:



Annex 3-4
Page 3 of 8
- 86 -
(a) socio-economic surveys to determine attitudes towards tree
planting and the likely acceptance of seedlings of different
types and also for use in monitoring and evaluating th. project
Impact;
(b) determining appropriate multi-purpose trees for comunity
forestrys
(c) developing a seed source of appropriate, selected multi purpose
trees;
(d) upgrading of existing nurseries and establishment of additional
nurseries and production of seedlings for distribution;
(e) extension and motivation to popularize tree planting and provide
technical advice to farmers on establishment, management and
protection of treesg
(f) monitoring and evaluation of project activities and impact;
(g) demonstration of alternative designs for planting trees on and
around agricultural land; the agroforestry packages would be
based on the trials by PPRI, and by IITA in Ibadan, Nigeria; the
advice of ICRAP in Nairobi would also be soughts
(h) studies of traditional and legal land and tree tenure conditions
and recomnendations as to approaches whereby these can be
modified or adopted to encourage tree planting, protection and
management including consideration of use of fire;
(i) a study on measures to reduce encroachment into the forest
reserves by farmers for agriculture and in particular
concentration on buffer zones;
(j) support for research to develop appropriate agroforestry packages
for the different ecological zones;
(k) training at the technical and professional levels in rural
forestry and agroforestry; and
(1) technical assistance.
Socio-economic Surveys
S.        Two types of socio-economic survey would be carried out. First,
prior to project implementation, a survey would determine attitudes towards
trees, felt needs for tree products, and willingness to engage in tree
planting within the priority districts. The results of this would be used
for planning locations for emphasis and also the numbers and types of
seedlings to produce. Second, surveys would be carried out during project
implementation to determine baseline conditions and to monitor the impact



Annex 3-4
Page 4 of 8
- 87 -
of the project. Some 42 staff-months of services, possibly contracted from
a Ghanaian University, would be required to perform the survey work and 30
staff-months technical assistance would be necessary for their design,
supervision and ana4ysis, and interpretation of the results.
Nurseries and Seedling Production
9.        Central nurseries in each district would be upgraded by improving
water supplies, and by providing adequate tools, equipment and fencing.
Additional subsidiary nurseries close to areas where seedlings are demanded
would be established. The establishment of local village nurseries by
individuals or institutions would be encouraged. It is projected that 14
district nurseries would be upgraded, and that 39 subsidiary nurseries and
52 village nurseries would be established during the project period.
Seedling production levels and types would depend on the results of the
attitude surveys. It is projected that about 7 million seedlings would be
produced during thC project period, of which about 25 percent would be
fruit tree seedlingg produced by MOA. Proposed phasing of production is
shown in Table 1. This is estimated to be between 25 and 30 seedlings for
each farm family within the potential project districts. There would be
partial cost recovery for the seedlings distributed to individuals to
reinforce the idea they have of value, but institutions would generally
receive seedlings free of charge.
Table 1
Nurseries and Seedling Production
---------------------------------------------------------__-------------
Project Year                        1      2    3      4    5      6
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nurseries in Operation
District nurseries                       1     4    9      14    14   14
Subsidiary nurseries                    1     6   17    33   42   42
Village nurseries                              4   16      38   56   56
Seedlings produced ('000)              85  394   918   1703  1946  1946
Extension and Motivation
10.    An increased awareness among rural populations regarding the value
and use of trees in farming systems would be achieved through widespread
publicity campaigns using radios, posters and cinema shows. The project
would also work to obtain the support of local traditional rulers. At the
district level, the Forest Department would work closely with the Ministry
of Agriculture Extension Officers to encourage farmers to plant trees,
either communaly (FD) or individually (MOA); to find out what seedlings are
required, to distribute seedlings and to advise how to plant and protect



Annex 3-4
Page 5 of 8
- 88 -
them. Support would also be given to NGOs through provision of technical
advice and seedlings. The NOA extension services would be strengthened by
training in agroforestry and provision of motorcycles and bicycles. Until
specific agroforestry packages can be promoted, emphasis would be placed on
the inclusion of trees in existing farm systems and around houses, as well
as the establishment of small woodlot. in areas not suited to agriculture.
Monitoring and Evaluation
11.     Monitoring and Evaluation would be necessary for assessment of the
economic impact of the project as well as to follow up seedling
distribution, planting rates, establishment designs and product yields and
also nursery production data and costs. Systems for gathering the
necessary data and its collection and analysis would be carried out by FD
at the regional and district levels, with assistance of staff at .he
national level.
Demonstration
12.     Areas would be established by FD to provide a visual comparison of
different patterns of tree planting within agricultural systems. At least
3 sites, each of about 2 ha, would be selected per district on land where
the government has long-term control. Additional sites could be
established with the cooperation of farmers on their farm. The
demonstration should include 4-5 blocks with comparisons such as the
traditional farm system in the area, the system with additional dispersed
trees, the system with grouped trees, alley cropping and improved fallow
with short-rotation woodlot planting. Establishment practices should aim
to show the maximum potential of tLe sites with respect to crop and tree
production. The demonctration areas should be closely monitored to
quantify the yields produced by the different treatments.
Land Tenure and Legal Studies
13.     A specialist would be engaged under technical assistance to examine
customary laws regarding land and tree tenure in the priority project
districts and provide recommendations as to how these could be utilized to
encourage tree planting and management by individuals and communities.
Studies of existing official laws regarding land and tree tenure would also
be made and recommendations given as to how these might be amended to allow
greater participation of rural people in forest management. The current
regulations and traditions regarding the use of fire would be examined and
possible zodification to encourage or enforce early burning proposed.
Research
14.     The project would support research to develop agroforeatry packages
suited to each ecological zone. The Forest Products Research Institute
would be the lead agency but would work in close coordination with the
Crops Research Institute. While FPRI would be strengthened under a
separate project component, funds for agroforestry research would be



Annex 3-4
Page 6 of 8
- 89 -
provided for commissior.ing projects through the Rural Forestry component.
The exact needs for fvading would only be determined after completion of a
detailed review of FPRI. In the interim, about ¢2.7 million per year for 5
years is estimated to be sufficient to cover the agroforestry research
program. Prior to preparation of such a program, a thorough review of
applicable work already done in Ghana and in neighboring countries is
required.
Training
15.     Training in rural forestry and agroforestry for staff of both FD
and HOA would be carried out at technical and professional levels. This
would include in-service training by short courses and also diploma courses
at IRNR. Fellowships for courses in agroforestry abroad and for study
tours to countries where rural forestry has been successful would be
supported. In total. 18 professionals and 90 technical staff would receive
in-service training and 22 would take the agroforestry i4ploma course.  Ten
fellowships for study tours or courses abroad would be awarded.
Techuical Assistance
16.     A total of 162 staff-months of technical assistance would be
provided in the following specialties:
-  Rural Forestry/Agroforestry               48 months
-   Land tenure and                          12 months
-  Monitoring and Evaluation                 36 months
-  Motivation and Extension                  36 months
-   Socio-economic Surveys                   30 months
Job Descriptions and TORs are given in Working Paper 6.
Rehabilitation of Savanna Forest Reserves
17.     The project would support a program to start rehabilitation in
forest reserves in densely populated areas of the savanna zone. This would
have the aims of (i) bringing currently unutilized land into production,
especially for fuelwood and poles; and (ii) securing long-term tree cover
with the accompanying environmental benefits. Detailed activities would
be: (a) surveys to determine the location and extent of areas in need of
rehabilitation; (b) determination of priority areas, based on wood
shortages and environmental considerations; (c) site surveys in priority
areas to facilitate planning as to species suitability; (d) preparation of
a detailed rehabilitation plan; and (e) establishment of woodlots through
straight plantation, or"taungya.0 1/
/t  Taungya is the allocation of planting sites to local farmes who
(Footnote Continued)



Annex 3-4
Page 7 of 8
90 -
Rural Forestry in the High Forest Zone
18.     The aims of rural forestry in the high forest zone would be (i) to
reduce encroachment into the reserves for agriculture through a combinat,.on
of buffer zone fruit tree planting and, in the longer term, introduction of
agroforestry packages to permit more sustainable farming; and (ii) to
explore ways to involve rural populations in management of remaining high
forest outside the reserves.  Activities would involvet  (a) raapping using
remote sensing to determine the extent of continuous high forest outside
reserves; 2/ (b) social and anthropological studies to investigate land
tenure and pec le's willingness and capability to participate in management
of forests; (c) development of appropriate forest management systems
involving local people; and (d) provision of seedlings, especially fruit
trees, for planting on farmland on the edges of reserves.
Organization and Management
19.     A Rural Forestry Division would be established within the Forest
Department to coordinate all rural forestry activities at a national level.
It would be headed by a Deputy Chief Conservator of Forest (DCCF) whto would
report to the Chief Conservator of Forests. There would be three sections
each headed by a Senior Conservator of Forests: (a) a Technical Section
with responsibility for receiving and disseminating information regarding
species, techniques and agroforestry packages, monitoring research
programs; and advising on demonstrations; (b) a Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Section, responsible for setting priorities, planning and
coordination of national programs and devising and implementing surveys and
monitoring and evaluation activities; and (c) a Motivation and Education
Section, responsible for preparing communication aids and teaching packages
and coordinating the component's training program. At the regional and
district levels responsibility for the rural forestry program would remain
with the Regional Forest Officers and, through them, to the districts.
However, additional officers with training in rural forestry would be
appointed. These would include a Conservator of Forests (CF) and a
Principal Technical Officer (PTO) at the regional offices and two Technical
Officers Grade 1 (TO 1) at each district. The TOs would have
responsibility to work with the MOA extension officers as subject matter
specialists in forestry and agroforestry. One of them would be seconded on
a half-time basis to MOA. To reinforce the policy of a unified extension
service, direct contact with farmers would be the responsibility of MOA
extensicn officers. For this purpose, and for the production of the fruit
tree seedlings which form part of the rural forestry program, an
Agroforestry Unit would be set up within MOA, consisting of three sections
(Footnote Continued)
prepare the site and may plant crops with the trees for the first 2
years of establishment.
2/   Discussed in detail in Annex 3-1, Forest Management.



Annex 3-4
Page 8 of 8
- 91 -
responsible fer respectively technical matters, motivation and extension,
and planning, monitoring and evaluation. The MOA Agroforestry Unit is to
be financed under the 3-year UNDPIFAO project "Support to a National
Agroforestry Prograine in Ghana (GH1/871007), but in case finance is not
forthcoming urJer that project, and after its termination in three years'
time, funds for this purpose are included under the present WB/ODA/DANIDA
project. In total 2,121 staff-years of incremental staff and permanent
workers would be provided to both FD and MOA for 14 districts within the
five regions, mainly to establish the agroforestry demonstration plots,
under the eupervision of the seconded FD Technical Officer.
Costs
20.     The total estimated costs for rural forestry activities would be ¢
2.0 billion (US$9.0 million), including physical and price contingencies.
This is broken down as follows:
¢ million                              US$ million
Coumunity     Agro-                     Community      Agro-
Forestry     Forestry    Total          Forestry      Forestry    Total
Investment     517.2         393.6      910.8             2.6           2.1       4.7
Recurrent      307.9         238.9      546.8             1.5           1.2       2.7
Physical        46.3          35.5       81.8             0.2           0.2       0.4
Price          254.2         158.8      413.0             0.9           0.4       1.3
Total       1,125.6         826.8    1,952.4             5.2          3.9        9.1
_~~~~~~iu                                             -           ===  =
The foreign exchange component would be approximately 59Z (US$5.4 million).
Rehabilitation of torest reserves in the savanna zone would cost ¢ 51.1
million (US$232,000) broken dowr as follows:
¢ million     US$ mn
Recurrent Costs                          33.2         0.166
PhysLcal Contingencies                    2.6         0.012
Price Contingencies                      15.3         0.054
Total                               51.1         0.232



GHANA
FORESTRY RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Sugg..t.d Now OranIzaton Forst DOparbnon1
cNfChauva1oof
FF A")       DCOF (M & WP)           eO()     F
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eerh -E-uc t .                            /
|  DCCFiLort (A)         DCOF (D) t        i          agt           I      Tuni
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ua le l      I_I                                             W 
1                                                   *               11111 F  , l               Kumasi
Interacton FD?FPRI
Adrn~Ifisbon     Ron         nFonvento                                   Trail PlotsPanta
Amonnselt                                       Foressdm  t PconiFrsrSho
Personnel            Reha.HbOon tLaw Enforcoment Fn-LCMD  Tri __.                                   C
Finance   pedal Pmleft              ~~Interacton FD/LGlL     A9oFoe%D-i
ActiA xeon                                          rMOA
_____  )_______        _ _  _  ______I_                       _______U_ban_Fore_t_    y
II                   I .
.L.a   . .. . . ..             Is Forest Rein            -----            
42 Frst Distift                                                             x
Ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



- 93 -
Annex 3-6
page 1 of 4
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Game and Wildlife
A.        Obiectives
1.        The objectives of this project component would be to:
(i) Enhance effective management of key protected areas and maintain
them as viable reservoirs of biological diversity.
(ii)   Obtain information on management options which may help to
maintain biological diversity, bushmeat supply and minor forest
products outside protected areas.
(iii) Strengthen conservation management training.
B.        Rationale
2.        Ghana's forests comprise a valuable resource of largely
indigenous wild flora and fauna (including timber trees) vhich if managed
on a sustainable yield basis, can provide both immediate and long-term
socio-economic benefits to the country. For example, Mole National Park
contains populations of elephant, wild dog, leopard, Nile and slender
snouted crocodile (Crocodylus Niloticus, C. CataPhractus). The Bia
National Park and Biosphere Reserve in the tropical high forest zone
supports populations of chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes), leopard, forest
elephant, Red Colobus, Western Black and White Colobus, Olive Colobus
(Procolobus verus) and White Breasted Guineafowl (Agelastes meleagrides).
These and other protected areas hold populations of regioL1lly and
nationally rare and endangered wildlife.
3.        The contribution -f wildlife from the Reserve areas to local food
supply is significant. Game meat (lbushmeat including duikers and grass
cutters) has traditionally contributed a significant amount of the protein
intake for rural and urban people. The GMD estimates that approximately
12? of the animal protein for human consumption is p )vided by wildlife and
in many rural areas it is considerably higher (approaimately 60-70X).
4.        The forest areas are themselves representative of a resource
which has become severely depleted in recent decades. They contain
important plant species which contribute minor forest products of value to
rural people including medicinal plants, fruits and nuts. Forests play an
important role iu the religious beliefs of local people.



- 94 -
Annex 3-6
page 2 of 4
5.        The effective protection of key representative areas of both high
forest and savanna woodland is essential to maintain a viable reservoir of
flora and fauna populations. Through research and survey programmes in
these reserves the project would advance knowledge of how such populations
may be protected (or disruption to them minimized) both inside and outside
Government Reserves. This is particularly important in high forest areas
where rapid and largely uncontrolled depletion of wildlife and plant
habitat is taking place.
6.        Ghana's network of protected areas at present comprises 13 sites
covering 1.2 million ha established as either National Parks (1.0 m ha),
Game Production Reserves (0.2 m h), strict Nature Reserves or Wildlife
Sanctuary (less than 0.05 m ha combined). Six of the 13 sites are in the
savanna zone (1.1 m ha or 90Z of protected area) and seven in the tropical
high forest zone (0.1 m ha or 1OZ of the total). The table in Annex 1
lists the areas, their size and existing number of game protection camps.
7.        The GWD has suffered from lack of resources in tecent years to
the extent that it is unable effectively to fulfill its mandate, especially
in relation to the management of protected areas. Problems include illicit
exploitation of animal populations (e.g. poaching of elephants for ivory,
primates and ungulates for bushmeat trade, parrots and other birds for
cage-bird trade) and encroachment of timber and forest exploitation into
national parks and other protected areas. The GWD is seriously
understaffed and lacks the support resources necesgary to control these
problems. This potentially undermines the protected area network which in
principle forms the foundation for wildlife conservation throughout Ghana.
Action is needed to provide a secure and viable reservoir of indigenous
flora and fauna, including threatened species, and opportunities for
research to aid their protection, management and, where appropriate,
sustainable exploitation.
8.        This project component is designed to assist GOG to address the
above deficiencies.
C.        Strengthening Management and Protection of Wildlife Areas
9.        The project would support:  (1) the existing four divisions of
the Game and Wildlife Department (GWD), and the six Game Reserve areas
(covering 568,840 ha in 4 separate management units); (2) in increasing GWD
staff levels, especially at professional and technical levels where there
are currently 72! of posts vacant; (3) the rehabilitation/construction of
offices, staff quarters, research facilities for both the Headquarters and
regional offices; (4) transport and communications equipment, field
equipment and other support facilities at GWD head office and field units
in priority protected areas; and (5) the establishment of a special
Wildlife Protection Squad to curtail illicit hunting and improve the
enforcement of game and wildlife regulations within the priority protected
areas, including transport communications and support equipment (camping
equipment, firearms, uniform) and support for their operation and
maintenance.



- 95 -
Annex 3-6
page 3 of 4
10.       Key activities of this subcomponent would be:  (i) Iaventory of
Forest and Wildlife Resources. The project would finance the
establishments of an inventory team to conduct surveys of wildlife
resources in priority protected areas, to analyze problems of enforcement
of wiidlife regulations, to identify special needs of th:eatened species of
flora and fauna, to review and revise key species site management p'ans,
and design a monitoring programme for threatened species. This would
include technical assistance, survey and mapping materials, transport and
field equipment; and (ii) Training. The project would support staff
development by financing training opportunities for GWD staff at Ghanaian
institutes (Institute of Renewable Natural Resources, Kumasi, tht Forestry
Department's School for Forestry at Sunyani) and upgrade the GWD Mole
Wildlife School to enable short in-service training courses to be
developed.
11.       To achieve the above activities the project would finance:(i)
Civil Works. Construction at Mole National Park and Wildlife School of a
research/training facility (including accommodation and workshop) and a
visitors information center. At Bia National Park it will finance a new
research facility and an office extension; rehabilitation of existing
buildings will be undertaken at the GWD Headquarters (Administrative
Offices, Research Divisions and Rest House), at the Mole NP (offices and
staff quarters) and also at the Bia, Nini-Suhien and Sha Hills National
Parks (office and staff quarters); (ii) Vehicles. 12 4-wd vehicles; 1
80-hp tractor trailer; 36 125-cc motorcycles; 1 4-wd 5-ton lorry; 53
bicycles; (iii) Equinment. Office equipment for GWD head office and field
stations, scientific inventory equipment; camping equipment, research
laboratory equipment, radio and communication equipment; (iv) Training.
The project would provide for in-country training to GIWD staff at
sub-technical, technical and professional grades. Training would comprise
three main elements: (a) An IRNR three-year certificate course for 22
junior technical officers; three-year BSc degree course for 14 senior
technical grades; (b) Training at GiD's Mole Wildlife School 'r FD's SFS
for approximately 105 sub-technical officers over the life of the project;
(c) Training through participation as counterparts to technical assistant
experts in specialist activities (e.g. attachment to wildlife inventory
unit; attachment to wildlife task force); and (v) Technical Assistance.
The project will provide a total of 84 staff-months including:
1 Wildlife Planning and Management Specialist      36 months
1 Primatologist                                    12 months
1 Ornithologist                                    12 months
1 Elephant Inventory Specialist                    12 months
1 Botanist                                         12 months
12. Prolect Area. The GMD Head Office is located in Accra where the four
central divisions are housed including Wildlife Conservation, Protected
Areas Management, Research and Administration. Regional offices are
located in or close to the major national parks in Northern, Brong-Ahafo,
Western and Volta Regions. The project would support institutional



- 96 -
Annex 3-6
page 4 of 4
strengthening at the headquarters as well as the field offices. It would
provide inventories for all national parks and six of the 13 reserves.
D.        Benefits. Justification and Risks
13.       The main benefit of the project component will be to bring under
systematic management and protection 1.3 million ha of National parks and
Wildlife Reserves and conservation areas. At the present time there is
inadequate data for precise quantification of the above wide range of
potential benefits. At an early stage in project development a data base
needs to be established that will enable a more accurate assessment to be
made of the economic and social contributions of this component. The
design of this data base should be completed within 3 months of project
effectiveness. The project will add an additional 140 trained staff to the
MWD. The fauna and flora inventory activities will improve GOG's knowledge
of its plant and wildlife resources including an assessment of their
economic potential.  It will help to highlight part-cular species which are
under threst of extinction or serious decline. In addition, the inventory
activities will provide a benchmark for monitoring the effectiveness of the
management and protection programs established under the project for
threatened species and wildlife resources which are important food
resources and a basis for future breeding programs.
14.       The maintenance of 1.3 million ha of forest and savanna woodland
vegetation will have a positive effect on local micro climate and on
adjacent farmers' agricultural productivity. Finally, given the current
international concern about the loss of biological diversity as a
consequence of Tropical Deforestation, the project will make a contribution
to preserving plant germplasm, medicinal and other forest products of local
and global importance.
15.       The main risk is that GWD's efforts to protect the National Parks
and Reserve areas will fail because of rising population pressure, demand
for agricultural land and large scale illegal poaching and hunting. The
projects institutional strengthening and buffer zone component are
targetted to address these problems through motivation and education as
well as through institutional strengthening.
16.       The total estimated cost of this sub-component is estimated at ¢
1.1 billion (US$5.1 million) of which foreign exchange is US$29 million or
57Z. This is broken down as follows:
¢. mn        USS mn
Investment                             639.0          3.2
Recurrent                              189.0          0.9
Physical and Price Contingencies       273.0          1.0
Total                      1101.0           5.1



- 97 -
Annex 3-7
page 1 of 6
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Education and Training
Background
1.        Forestry is taught at two institutions in Ghana: (i) at degree
and post-graduate levels, at the Institute of Renewable Natural Resources
(IRNR), Kumasi; and (ii) at technician level at the School of Forestry.
Sunyani (SFS). IRNR is located on the campus of the University of Science
and Technology (UST) and is the youngest academic unit of faculty status
fully incorporated into the UST. The function of the IRNR is to promote
through teaching, research, publication and field extension, the proper
utilization and management of the forest, grasslands, wildlife, fresh water
fisheries and the watersheds of Ghana. It has four academic departments:
(i) Silviculture and MAnagement; (ii) Wood Science and Technology; (iii)
Wildlife and Range Management; and (iv) Freshwater Fisheries and Watershed
Management. tre Institute provides education for both professional and
sub-professional personnel and ofEers three courses of B.Sc., Diploma and
M.Sc. It produces foresters, wildlife and range
managers, inland fisheries managers and assistant managers for the wood
industry. SFS belongs to the FD and of.ers a three year course designed to
educate personnel at the technical level for entry into the forest service
in the technical Officer (TO) grade II cadre. Sponsored students from
other government organizations are alst accepted. SFS is funded directly
by the FD in its annual budget.
2.        IRNR was actually established in March 1982 and placed under the
control of the Forestry Commission (PC). Accordingly, the tRER received
its funds from the Government through the FC until December 1986. It is
now funded directly through the Higher Education Section of the Ministry of
Education. Because of the need to maintain close technical and management
inputs with Ghana's Professional Forestry of Industry Institutions, it is
desirable that IRNR maintains its professional school status while at the
same time continues a close relationship with UST.
3.        The Education and Training Branch of the FD is responsible for
the basic training of the Department's technical staff including SFS.
There has been a long history of formal trairndg at this level beginning in
1922, with a combined Agriculture/Forestry Course of three years' duration,
leading to the appointment of successful students as Forest Rangers. It
was in 1943, that the training school was transferred to Sunyani from
Kumasi, but only in 1953 the course was expanded to three year's duration,
which included one year of basic sciences study at UST, followed by two
years at the SFS. This split course proved unsatisfactory and after the
necessary expansion of the School building at Sunyani to accommodate the
full three-year course, the present system was introduced at the school in
1958. Students successfully completing the three-year course are eligible



- 98 -
Annex 3-7
page 2 of 6
to enter the Forest Service at TO grade level. Sponsored students from the
FPRI, and the GWD are also accepted to the School.
Project Rationale
4.        For the past several years the public sector in Ghana has been
stricken with poor and declining management and low budgets. The FD has
not been an exception and the organization shows signs of passivity.
However, the Department is staffed by foresters who are generally well
trained and possess a good knowledge of sound forestry practices so that
what is now required is revitalizatios and motivations of the FD technical
staff and short-term refresher training to re-activate the staff.
5.        The FD has 57 vacancies in the professional grade, 51 in the
semi-professional and 257 in the technical grades; while the GID has 61
vacancies in the professional grades, 15 in the senior technical and 17 in
the junior technical grades. The limitations of the two available forestry
educational institutions imposed by the lack of experienced and skilled
academic staff, inadequate facilities including buildings, training,
laboratory and field equipment and operational vehicles would certainly
worsen the staff situation in already depleted departments. In this
context, the FD and GWD could play a more decisive role in forestry, wild
life conservation and game production development, if given the required
trained man-power particularly for agroforestry development, establishment
of multi-purpose plantations, management of the existing natural forest
areas, public relations and publicity and the promotion of tourism.
6.        A recent FAO -eport estimates the requirements of professional
foresters in Ghana for all forestry purposes (public and private) of 251 in
the year 2000. Of this total, 40 would be required for the establishment
and management of forest plantatione and 119 for the management of natural
production forests. The present FD professional establishment in post is
only 29.  Hence a minimum of 15 to 18 new professional recruits per year
would be the current need to bring the FD up to the required strength by
the year 2000.
7.        IRNR  sademic Staff Shortages.  Currently IRNR has 27 vacant
posts out of a staff established of 45.



- 99 -
Annex 3-7
page 3 of 6
IRNR Academic Staff, February 1987
Professional and                    In post      Vacant       Approved
Technical posts                                             Establishment
Director                               1            -             1
Professor/Associate Professor          -            3            3
Senior Lecturer                        1            3            6
Lecturer                               9            6           12
Assistant Lecturer                     3            -             3
Visiting Professor                     -            1             1
Visiting Lecturer                      -            1             1
Teaching Assistant                     1            3            4
Senior Technician                      2            3            5
Principal Technician                   -            5            5
Technical Instructor                   -            1            1
National Serviceman                    1            2            3
Total                                 18           27           45
8.   Facilities.  The Institute is located in an old dilapidated building
consisting of two lecture rooms and a small number of ancillary offices to
accommodate the Diroctor, the academic and supporting staff. Since space
and facilities available are totally inadequate for an Institute of this
nature, the IRNR relies heavily on UST and FPRI for laboratory and lecture
room facilities. There is no accommodation foi staff members who are
forced to rent out houses in Kumasi at exorbitant rents and no guest house
to accommodate visiting and guest lecturers who have to travel from Accra
and other distant places. Consequently, hotel accommodation has to be
provided by the Institute for such visiting personnel which it can ill
afford. Laboratory, field a-4, camp equipment are virtually non-existent
and here again the IRN r,'.es on the USTR and FPRI.
9.        Curriculuri balance.  The B.Sc. course syllabus is well balanced
and covers all the requirements of a professional officer's training.
However, IRNR plans to give greater emphasis to Agroforestry and Community
Forestry. Such a course would be made available as an option in the near
future. In the Diploma course, Rural Sociology, Forestry Extension and
Agroforestry are absent and should be included, with the first two subjects
as core courses. While a well structured management course has been
included in the M.Sc. degree program, no such arrangement has been made for
the B.Sc. and the Diploma courses.
10.       SFS Academic Staff Shortages.  The balance staff comprises a
Chief Technical Officer, four D4 loma level tutors and one certificate
level tutor making a total of seven staff members. Hence the academic
staff consists of only one professional, and six sub-professionals which is
grossly inadequate for the course offered at the school. It is important
that most of the teaching position at SFS should be held by professional
officers at least at a B.Sc. level. The school does not provide refresher



- 100 -
Annex 3-7
page 4 of 6
courses for Senior TO(s) and To(s) in service and there is no formal
education or training for the sub-technical and forest guard level or
foremen or skilled laborer grades. These grades receive on-the-job
training only.
11.       Facilities.  The school buildings are of a high standard of
design and construction and extensive, but in a state of neglect requiring
urgent maintenance. The biggest drawbacks are the lack of electricity and
inadequate water supply. The power supply to the school is available for
approximately 4 hours daily from 6:00 pm to 10:00 pm during which time
staff and studeuts have to complete all domestic chores and the students
have hardly any time for studies at night. The training and audio-v'sual
equipment is almost non-existent and many items are non-functional. The
same applies to office, camp and field equipment.
12.       Curriculum Balance.  The practical work in the field and its
spread over the various regions is adequate. The concept of comon basic
courses in the pure sciences, designed to upgrade the genera'l educational
standard of the student is good, but the details of the course material in
most of these basic subjects appear superfluous considering that the entry
requirement to this course includes science subjects and some of the
material goes far beyond that requirement t; a Technical Officer (TO). It
would appear preferable to review the course content of the basic subjects
and devote the time saved thereby to technical subjects. There is some
imbalance in the time allotted to each of the subjects. The hours set
aside for forest administration (112) hours); surveying (224 hours) and
utilization (123 hours) appear to be over-generous, while mensuration (56
hours), management (56 hours) and forest engineering (56 hours) are
underallotted. The course content requires re-examination and the hours
need to be re-distributed taking into account subjects like rural
sociology, buffer zone developmen:, forestry extension, agroforestry and
comunmity forestry which still have no place in the curriculum.
Project Activities - IRNR.
13.       Under this subcomponent the project aims to strengthen the IRNR
to become the lead National Institution for higher level training in
Natural Resource management and protection. The project would support
ataff and curriculum development, and provide building facilities,
equipment and transport as follows:
(i) Staff and curriculum development. (a) The project would increase
staff levels from the 1987 level of 9 lecturers to a cadre
of 20 lecturers in 1990. This would reduce IRNR's dependence on
'borrowed" part time staff from other institutions who are
already over-burdened; and (b) as IRNR curriculum is not targeted
to address certain priority problems in the natural resource
protection and management sector, a working committee would be
established to review and critique the IRNR curriculum with
regard to national priorities (e.g. fire management, forest
reserve buffer protection). The composition of the committee



- 101 -
Annex i37
page 5 of 6
should include FD, GSD, industry, MLNR, CSIR, UST and
conservation NGO's.
(ii)  Building facilities and equipment.  New academic buildings, nine
senior staff houses, and one guest house for visiting lecturers
would also be constructed within the UST premises. The necessary
camp, field, laboratory and office/classroom equipments, and
books and journals.
(iii)  Transportation (2 saloon cars, 3 4-VD vehicles, one bus and one
5-ton lorry, their replacement costs in Year 7 and their
operation and maintenance costs).
14.       To meet these objectives the project would provide technical
assistance for curriculum development, and supplemental teaching
post-graduate training to members of the academic staff. A total of 72
staff-months would be provided in the following specialties: Education and
Manpower Specialist (24 qm), Agroforestry Specialist (24 sm), and Wildlife
Management Specialist (z4 sm).
15.  Phasina of Inputs.  The first year of project activity would be
devoted to the development of staff cadre at the institutes and the actual
development work like the construction of buildings, procurement of
vehicles and equipment would commence during Year 2 and phased out over the
project period.
Proiect Activities - SFS
16.       This project sub-component would support the continuation of the
three year training programe for learner technical officers plus the
introduction of refresher courses to technical and senior technical
officers of four months and one month, respectively. These refresher
courses to update knowledge and techniques of technical officers and the
managerial skills of the senior technical officers would include work
study, forest inventory, planning and costing, plantation management and
establishment, agroforestry and community forestry while the senior
technical officers course would include business management, in view of its
importance to improving their management capabilities and extension. Also,
the project would initiate a six months training course for technical
forest guards which would be more practical oriented with minimal time
devoted to classroom teaching and would emphasize: (i) specific field work
(e.g. surveying, enumeration, measurement of standing and felled timber);
(ii) procedures involved in the investigation of forest offenses; (iii)
forest management; and (iv) rural forestry with special focus on
agroforestry technical packages, farmer participation, fire prevention,
buffer belt development to protect forest reserves. The course would
include subjects like surveying, mensuration, forest management,
silviculture, law enforcement, extension, agroforestry buffer development,
supervision of labour and the use and maintenance of forest tools and
implements.



- 102 -
Annex 3-7
page 6 of 6
17.       The project would provide training to new entrants and those in
service under the following scheme.
SFS Training Scheme
Grade              Course         Duration        2   3   4   5   6   7 Total
Learner TO        New entrants   3 years         35  35  35  35  35  35  210
course
Snr. TO           Management      1 month        15  15  15  15  15  15   90
TO gr. I/II    )
TO (D)         ) Refresher        4 months       20  20  20  20  20  20  120
Forest Guard   ) New Course
Technical Aset.)  (Technical )   6 months        40  40  40  40  40  40  240
110 110 110 110 110 110 660
18.       Assuming that the second and third year learner TO(s) strength
would be 35 in each year the SFS would cater to the training of 183
students per year which is t,,e maximum capacity. In order to cater to the
expanded training programme'and to remove the existing constraints the
project would provide for: (i) construction of new buildings (9), two
classrooms, two senior staff houses, two junior staff houses, one senior
staff guest house, storerooms, water storage tank, completion of partially
constructed buildings (women dormitory, junior staff house) and
refurbishing of existing buildings; (ii) transportation (two 4-WD vehicles,
one 5-ton lorry, two buses, one 4WD pick-up, two motorcycles and two
bicycles, their replacement costs during the project period and the
operating and maintenance costs); and (iii) training, camp, field, workshop
and office equipment, office furniture k-A books and journals.
19.       Foreign training for the teaching staff would be provided in the
form of 7 staff-months of teaching fellowships and 2 staff-months of study
tours. Individual staff members would also be given in-country training in
Business Management (2 staff-months at GIMPA) and degree (B.Sc.) level
training at IRNR in Renewable Natural Resources (3 staff-years) and
Agroforestry (3 staff-years). The project would meet the incremental costs
of increasing the subsistence allowance of trainees to an adequate level.



Foet Reurce Nl_mt ProJeet
Project Cwonmts bh Yer
(excluding the quick disbursing component)
Totals Includini Contingencies                                  Totals Including Cotioineies
(Cdi '000)                                                       (09ss 00)
pyl      Pn2         PY3       Pn4        PS       P6        TOtal      pl       P2      Pm3    PY4   PM       PY6   Total
A. Foret Imbnt                 749,470,4  617#063.8  448,478.8  368,260,3 302,408.2 233,301.1 27180982.6  3,656.0 293.4 2N066.7 1,66.3 1.3s6.1 1.036.9 129720.4
3. Rural Forestru              234,434.4  327987.7  49341.0  397427,4 268M838.3 256202.5 1,974311.3  1,143.6  1561.8 2.255.0 1,9*3 1,205.6 1.139.0 9,103.4   W
C. Institutional Strwthenins    689,884.8  701,026.8  497123.8  272*053S  165,771.6 172136.9 2*497997.4  3,365.3 34338.2 2,290.9 1,231.0  743.4  765.1 11M733.8
0. Education I Training        842,320.4  439,893.4  163*056.8  120,566.6 113,93.8 122*064.6  1,801,875.6  4,108.9 24094.7  751.4  545.6  511.1  542.5 8,554.2
E. RPearch                     824,218,9  335,603.9  114.161.1   88,643.0 91,489.8 125,668.1  1,579,784.8  44020#6 15.1  526.1  401.1  410.3  55.S  7.514,7
Total nU.cT COsts              3*340.328.9 2*421.575.6 1,712,161.4 1,246,950.8 942481,7 909,453.3 10,72,951.8 16,294.3 11,531.3 7o80o.1 5*642.3 4,226.4 4,042.0 49626*.4
inauauuu   zmm.   ..s  .u.mzaMXv  C=         -m322maze"           gz===   ~zguz     mzz2 wA=Kn mgrnin mmX=   OMM
J.   to3  15A33



u-
r,,.t _$ue  nMiment PrJit
&werv kemmts bw lear
(excluding the quick disbursing component)
totals Irtlwind CemUtl inius                                           Totals taludi  Ceti*wncius
(Cedi '000)                                                             (15 logo)
mt          fP12        m           P4         P15       P16       TOta         ryi      PT2       FYI    PY4      PS      P6    tota
t1 11S1M costs
WCUcS                                            630,838     2P,094.4   136,613.9  1*o.99.0  27o4U6.6  12.098.3  1,205102.1   3077.3  1,281.4   679.6   493,2   123.2  142.7  5.747,2
CtIV    5                                        099269.4   728.204.4  2689M*9   205163.   19M6OM4                -  2.120*703.0   4s386,7 3467.6 1.236,0  92.3    88.2            - 10.107.?
EUIUSII  I      tRIMS                            586,002*4  203M    *.3  207,651.1   130,368.4 13,974.5 161,931.8 1.44056,5   2.s.5    971.1   V6,9   589.t  712.9  719.7  6,609.0
ECIuICK MSSISTMaCC. S TUIES M  SLUM              862,948.9   709,344.9  476,690.7  173,566,7  8516983   3Z918.7  2431170.2  4,209.5  3,M.8 2W196,7   7854   381.9   17.7 10*969.1
1 861818, fVUCLlStIPS tlD AWALS                   99"85.0   117J138.8  137sB40.2   92,603.6  73,307.9  573b2.6   57S932.1            487.2    57.8   35.2   419.9  328.7  2M5.0  264,.0
Total NlZSTI    COSTS                             3*078.?44#. 2.027.710.7 1,227.289.7  720,892.6 3644588,6 2535401.4  7Nh64727.9  MM019.2  9,E5548 5,S55.3 34216.7 1634.9 1,135.1 364317.0
ii. ocini  costs
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v1owCU 518611                                   119W567.3   1)0.232,S   2039468,7  209.66#9 225,507.5 26708)1.6  1196.614#4    593.3   810*6  937.6   90.1 1O.0l.2 1.190.5  5*4C3.4 1
UIINNUC  Or FK M         £1 E111W                 9,698.5  146316.6   220.959#3   M        M470.0302.36.3132566.6  1390M37.2        4764    6010.5 s1018.2 l237.4 155.9 1491.4  6-381.0
S    1   OMS   AM.LICES                          44o118.3    59,315.8   60,543,7   52,621.3  504024.5  506A36    313,237.2          215.2   763.4  279.0   238.1  224.3  Z.4.0  1044.0
totl LEUMEN  CmSTS             *                    261384.1   3M3 M 449   U484971.7  536,058.2 5M7OM93.1 654,051.9  2o9e06223 .e   1275.0  1,875.S 2W234.9 2425.6 2,59.4 2s96.9 13.309.4
m,sz~    u~s.a    amzz,a~aEa~~u~M=u=22  =XSMa x8=2muzza   SOMUCR= EU3utE2 InatvX 22c s,~a zux,t,  Pss==g axx23
taul PI JECt CASTS                                 3*340.3289 2.421.5756 19712161.4 1,246.950.8 942,481.7 909*453,3 10*572'951.8  16.294,3 11,531.3 789V.1 54642,3 44226.4 4,042.0 49626*4
mmtEz, maw,a   m333t  _E,mg                        ieU           z  tEgutt   ez e rnng  geaS,    in    gmitEe inu
J,uw9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i 198153
t-V 4*
t  0



- 105 -
Annex 3-8
Table 3
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan (excluding the quick disbursing component)
(US$ Millions)
PYl     PY2     PY3     PY4     PYS      PY6     Total
IDA         8.2     5.8     4.0     2.7      1.8     1.9      24.4
ODA         2.4     1.6     1.2      0.7     0.7     0.5       7.1
DANIDA      2.4     1.8     1.3      1.1     0.9     0.8       8.3
GOG         3.3     2.3     1.4      1.1     0.8     0.9       9.8
Total      16.3    11.5     7.9     5.6      4.2     4.1      49.6
I/ US$15.0 million of quick disbursing component would be provided in two
tranches of US$7.5 million each, the first, at effectiveness, PY1 and the
second at PY3.



HWM
FORES RESOtNRCE MANAGEMENT PRJECT
Imolementation Schedule
Project Y.er              Pro-Project         1               2               8               4               5                6              I7
CY                        1986         1i69              199             1991            199             199              1994           1996            199
IDA PT                      889/6         89/96            Ow/91           01/92           92/98           93/94            94/96          96/96           96/97
tuaerteru(IDAFY)          8 4 12    8 4 12    84 12    8 4 12    8 4 12    8 4 12    34 12    84 12   3 4122
1. IDA
1.1 Negotiations0
1.2 Board Presentation
1.3 Effectiveness
1.4 Completion Date                                                                                                                   ODec. 81, 1994
1.5 Closing Date                                                                                                                                   S Dec. 31, 1996
2.  Project Impp1..
2.1 Inventory
2.2 Work Plan
2.3 Nurseriee Eatab.
District                                      1               4               9              14
Subsidiary                                    1               6              17              81              39
VI Illaw                                                      4              168                             52
2.4 SeedlIngs                                     76              824                             I'm186         1,462            1,462
Produced ('696)
2.5 CivilI Works
2.6 Staff Recruit-nt
(CumuIlati V*)
Profeesional  em                    ....S....        . ... .16....   . ... .24....   . ... .32....   .... .48....    . ... .48....
Technical     em........                             .... 20u....    . ... asw....   . ... .40....   .... so ....    . .96...
2.7 Procurement
Equipment 
2.8 Completion Report
June so, 1996



- 107 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 1
Disbursement Schedule by Categories and Years
(US $ Million)
FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95        Total
Quick Disbursement  7.5       -     7.5     -       -      -        -     15.0
Vehicles             0.5    1.4    0.2    0.3    0.2    0.1    0.1         2.8
Civil Works           -     2.0.   1.5    1.1    0.4       -       -       5.0
Equipment and        0.7    0.8    0.2    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1         2.1
Materials
Tech. Assistance ,  0.6    2.0    1.6    0.9    0.5    0.7    0.3          6.6
Studies and
Surveys
Training and          -     0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.4         1.5
Fellowships
Operating Costs      0.4    1.1    1.6    1.5    1.0    0.6    0.2         6.4
Total           9.7    7.5   12.9    4.1    2.4    1.7    1.1        39.4
Cumulative           9.7   17.2   30.1   34.2   36.6   38.3   39.4          -



- 108 -                  Annex 3-10
Page 2 of 3
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Table 2
Disbursement Schedule by Quarters 1/
(Excluding the Quick Disbursing Component) 2t
(US $ Million)
Cummulative
IDA Fiscal Year                     Cummulative    Disbursement
and Quarters       Disbursement   Disbursement   as Z of Credit    Historical 3/
Z Quart.
FY89 - lst qtr            0               0              0
2nd               0               0               0              1     2
3rd               0               0               0
4th  *            2.2             2.2             9             2      4
FY90 - 1st                2.1             4.3            18
2nd               1.6             5.9             24            8      6
3rd               2.0             7.9             33
4th               1.8             9.7             40           14      8
FY91 - 1st                1.7           11.4             47
2nd  8            1.4            12.8             53           20    10
3rd  *            1.1            13.9             57
4th  0            1.2            15.1             62           27    12
FY92 - lot  0             1.4           16.5             68
2nd  *            0.9            17.4             72           36    14
3rd  *            1.0            18.4             76
4th               0.8            19.2             79           42    16
FY93 - 1st                0.9           20.1             83
2nd               0.4            20.5             85           51    18
3rd               0.5            21.0             87
4th  *            0.6            21.6             89           58    20
FY94 - lot                0.7           22.3             91
2nd  *            0.4            22.7             93           68    22
3rd               0.3            23.0             94
4th  *            0.3            23.3             95           76    24
FY95 - lst  *             0.6           23.9             98
2nd               0.5            24.4             100          83    26
3rd
4th  *                                                         88    28
FY96 - lot
2nd  *                                                         96    30
3rd
4th          _                                                100    32
1/  Credit effectiveness, completion date and closing date assumed to be April 1,
1989, December 31, 1994, and June 30, 1995, respectively.
2/  The Quick Disbursement component would be disbursed in two tranches of US$7.5 mn
each: the first in the 3rd quarter of 1989 and the second in the 2nd quarter of
1991.
3/ For Western Africa, Agricultural and Rural Development Projects FY76-85
as per PPD memo of October 3, 1985.



GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
D!SBURSEMENT CHART
100-                    (excluding the Quick Disbursemen. Component)
/~//
80 . ............................................ .................  .   /..................
X ////
'it 60 /. 
e            /                      ~~~/
40- .................                     C. D...............i.................................e.s-
y                                                          -  -  Ristorical Dis-
40 . ......................  ................................................          .   . ...... ......................................  Cursmula iv   Proise
20..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bursement Proile
7                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for W. Africa
.  /   /                                                                Agricultural and
Rural revelopment
Projects FY76-85
I ~ 11   111   I I   III  IV  I   I    III  IV    I    I   III  IV    I    I   III  IV    I    I   I  V    IV  I  V 1   I    I    II IV 
FY1989 PY1990  PY2 1991          1992 py4 1993 py5 1994 PY6 1995          1996 PY8 1997                        0
Note: The chart shows disbursements starting at the beginning of each quarter, whereas these would be spread
over the period of the quarter.



- 110 -
Annex 3-11
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SRecial Proiect Accounts
1.        The Government of Ghana would open separate Special Accounts Nos.
1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 through PD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and Agro-Forestry Unit in MOA
(APU) respectively, into which IDA would make an initial deposit of
US$100,000 each for pre-financing goods and services reimbursable under the
IDA credit.
2.        The Special Account Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 would be maintained in
US dollars and would be operated by PD, G6D, IRNR, FPRI and AFU under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA. Replenishment would be conditional on
GOG quarterly releases to the four institutions, respectively. The
Accounts would be replenished on the basis of monthly withdrawal
applications submitted by FD, GID, IRNP, FPRI and APU individually. These
applications would be prepared promptly after receipt of monthly bank
statements from the commercial bank holding the Accounts. Applications
would be supported bys (a) an annotated copy of the ban: statement,
cross-referenced to the items appearing on the replenishment application;
(b) summary sheets together with full supporting documentation for items
which do not qualify for disbursement on the basis of SOEs, or certified
SOEs for expenditures authorized on this basis; (c) a reconciliation
statement which confirms that an appropriate balance remains in the Special
Account; and (d) a statement disclosing the quarterly contributions made by
GOG to the four respective accounts. Should any disbursement from these
Accounts be found ineligible for financing, GOG would be required to
deposit into that relevant Account a sum equivalent to the ineligible
amount, prior to the submission of any subsequent claims for replenishment.



- 111 -                    Annex 3-12
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Auditing and Reporting Requirements
1.        MLKR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and the Agro-Forestry Unit in MOA (AFU)
would each keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting
practices to reflect their financial status. SPS would do the same and
submit its reports to the FD before the start of the second quarter of the
GOG fiscal year. The MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would ensure that
all accounts as well as the special accounts and Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) were audited annually by a firm of independent external auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and the auditors report including
a statement for each account of epch institution certifying whether or not
TDA funds had been used for their intended purpose, would be submitted to
IDA within six months of the end of their fiscal years.
2.        The MLNR, FD, GWD, SFS, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would each prepare a
separate annual plan and work program that would clearly show proposed
project related activities. A procurement program would also be prepared
to reflect proposed purchases for the following year, detailing the items
unit costs and quantities, timing, sources of funding and procurement
methods (whether ICB, LCB and nther). Tnis program would be submitted to
the IDA for information. For procurement this procedure would be
additional to any specific requirements for procurement under IDA credits.
On the basis of the annual plans, work program and procurement program,
MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNR, FPRI and AFU would earmark funds in their respective
budgets and the GOG would make its contribution quarterly in advance.
3.        MLNR, FD, IRNR, GWD, FPRI and AFU would each submit their own
quarterly reports, as well as those for the institutions for which each has
project responsibility, to IDA containing at least the following
information achieved (in quantitive terms); objectives for the subsequent
period(s) and major issues/problems encountered or likely to arise in a
subsequent period. The quarterly reports would contain a summary of
current expenditures and a cumulative record. After project completion,
MLNR, FD, GWD, IRNI, FPRI and AFU would each prepare a Project Completion
Report analyzing project implementation and achievemants in relation to its
objectives and would submit them to IDA within six months of the project
closing date.



- 112 -
Annex 3-13
page 1 of 8
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Benefits
1.        Ghana's forests produce three major categories of benefits:  (i)
primary forest products based on harvested logs; (ii) secondary forest
products, including fuelvood, charcoal, bushmeat, medicinal plants, and
(iii) environmental services, including protection from soil erosion,
provision of soil organic matter and nutrients, maintenance of biodiversity
and, possibly, mediating effects on climate. While the project ie expected
to have net beneficial effects on all three categories of benefits, the
extent and value of many of these cannot be determined for lack of
appropriate methodologies or data. However, the quantifiable benefits
indicate that the project over 15 years would produce an Economic Rate of
Return (ERR) of 21.4X and Net Present Value (NPV), using a 102 discount
rate, of US$20.8 million (details are in table (a)). An indication of the
significance or order of magnitude of these benefits and how they will be
influenced by the project is presented below.
Primary Products
2.        Siace Ghana's forest inventory and forest sample survey studies
fell into abeyance some years ago, estimates of the forest stock,
incremental growth and annual allowable cut are not as firmly based as they
should be. The current estimate of annual allowable cut of 1.1 million m3
comprises (i) 720,000 m3 from reserved forest; (ii) 120,000 m3 from
unreserved forest; and (iii) 260,000 m3 from plantations. However, the
actual cut has been estimated to be as much as 2.0 to 2.7 million m3, up to
2.5 times the annual allowable cut (Working Paper 3). Reliable estimates
suggest that the actual production of logs exported or delivered to mills
is about 1.35 million m3, and wastage in the woods, i.e., the difference
between the cut and the yield is commonly held in the range of 332 to 50Z;
up to 50? of the merchantable wood remains on the forest floor. By
institutional strengthening and by improving forest management, the project
will have a significant effect on reducing log wastage in the forest and
improving utilization beyond the 5O0 level. This effort will also be
enhanced by implementation of the proposed new fee and royalty schedules,
which create an incentive to use a greater proportion of the wood cut.
3.        The economic value of the reduction in log wastage in the forest
is shown in table (b).  The NPV of the institutional strengthening and
improvement of forest management activities is estimated at 22.1 million
over 15 years at a discount rate of 10, representing an ERR of
approximately 24.8X. The economic costs comprise the cost of all
activities related to improving forest mnanagement and institutional
strengthening including costs with long term impact such as applied
research, education and training. The benefits represent a reduction in



- 113 -
Annex 3-13
page 2 of 8
log wastage of 1.5Z to 3Z (20,000 m3) in Year 2 and 7.42 to 15Z (100,000
m3) from Year 6 onwards, depending on the assumptions made regarding total
log wastage. Limited improvements of these orders of magnitude should be
achievable given the strengthened institutional and organizaticnal base
from which public forest managers will be working. The size of the
reduction in log waste necessary to justify economically the expenditure of
project initiatives for 6 years Is also calculated. This reduction is
estimated to be 60,000 m3, equivalent to a range of 4.42 to 9.22 of the
estimated current range of log wastage. Again, it is not unreasonable to
assume that improvements in efficiency of this scale will be achieved, if
not surpassed, by the project.
Secondary Forest Preducts
4.        Ghana's most important secondary (non-timber) forest products are
fuelwood, charcoal and poles. The volume and value of these products
harvested annually has been estimated as follows:
Price     Price per m3       RWE        Total value
(Cedis)       RWE 1/        (000 m3)   (million cedis)
(cedis)
Fuelwood (rural)   2.0/kg         1,400          6,985          9,780
Fuelwood (urban)   6.5/kg         4,550            360          1,640
Charcoal           13.6/kg        1,335          4,690          6,260
Poles              75.0 each         500           600            300
12,635        17,980
l/ Round Wood Equivalent.
The total value of th2se products is 17.9 billion cedis, equivalent to
$89.9 million, approaching the value of annual hardwood exports. The total
volume of these secondary products is 12.6 millior m3, more than eleven
times the annual allowable cut of the high forest zone, and almost five
times the estimated actual cut of industrial logs, in roundwood
equivalents. How the project will affect these quantities in the high
forest zone is unclear, but the effect of fee and royalty rate increases
should improve the efficiency with which logs are processed, and may reduce
the volume of 'waste' in the mills which is currently converted to
charcoal. In the savanna zone, the economic rate of return to rural
fore3try promoted by the project has been estimated to be 12.9Z (details
are in table (c)).
5.        Other important secondary forest products include bushmeat,
medicinal plants, live animal exports, and a host of minor products.
Bushmeat is eaten regularly by 752 of Ghana's population, but the total
volume consumed and its value are unknown. In a single market in Accra, a
case study indicates that sales of bushmeat in 1985 were worth 12.0 million
cedis ($202,000), of which 752 belonged to a si-gle species, the



- 114 -                       Annex 3-13
page 3 of 8
grasscutter. However, it is unclear how improved forest management would
affect bushmeat availability. Some species dependent on deep forest
habitats would increase in number, while the numbers of other species found
in agricultural areas outside the forest might remain unchanged. However,
while it is unlikely that bushmeat availability would be diminished by
improved forest management, the key determinant would be the rate of growth
in hunting pressure which is likely to increase at an increasing rate.
6.        Exports of live animals from Ghana in 1985 were estimated to
number 21,000, worth $344,000. These animals were supplied to zoos, the
pet industry, and research institutions. A number of these animals were
primates, which are becoming increasingly scarce as habitat is lost and
hunting pressure for food increases. Improved forest conservation is
likely to increase, or at least maintain, animal numbers, and their value
for export will be determined by the demand for part'cular species and the
extent to which the Government of Ghana can regulate poputlation numbers.
7.        Medicinal plants are used by almost every rural Ghanaian family
and, possibly, 60? of the urban population, and many of these are drawn
from the forest. Wild plant species are used in medicinal practices and in
research, and exports of plants to industrialized countries also takes
place on a significant scale. For example, 110 tons of a small forest
fruit (Thuumactococcus daniellii) has recently been exported to Great
Britain, as the source of a powerful sugar substitute. However, this trade
is not yet well documented. Improved protection of the remaining forest is
essential to the maintenance of flora as sources of medicinal plants which
are typically harvested in quantities unlikely to diminish the resource
base.
Environmzutal Benefits
8.        Significant environmental benefits are provided by forests in
both the high forest and the savanna zones. However, to document the
extent and value of the environmental services afforded by the forest would
require a substantial research effort. Major environmental benefits take
the form of soil conservation, hydrological stabilization, climate
mediation, and the protection of biodiversity and endemic species. Lumping
data for moist forests together, soil erosion under shifting cultivation
exceeds that from natural forests by a factor of 12, i.e., where a natural
forest loses 6 tons per ha or less depending on soils ard slope, under
shifting cultivation soil losses are 70 tons per ha or more. In savanna
areas the comparisons can be even more extreme, where soil loss from
rainfall on open ground of moderate slope suffers soil losses of 110 tons
per ha, the loss from the savanna forest is less than one ton per ha. In
addition, without shelterbelts or vegetative cover, savanna areas also
suffer from erosion by wind. However, the contribution of trees to soil
conservation, soil nutrient levels, and the maintenance of stable
hydrclogical patterns in Ghana requires specific analysis. Nevertheless,
the project is likely to contribute to these benefits by increasing
vegetative cover and slowing the erosion of biomass and soil.



- 115 -
Arnex 3-13
page 4 of 8
9.        More than 2,100 plant species have been identified in Ghana's
forest zone, including 360 species of trees, and new bpecies are being
identified year-by-year.  Ghana's forests exhibit great species diversity                           I
with up to 1,360 different species being identified in a single ha. Of
these. 18 species are endemic and 23 snecies are noted as threatened.
Forest fauna is equally diverse and d,stinctive. Very rare species found
include Ogilbys duiker, forest elephant, bongo, giant forest hogs, several
small antelopes, diverse primates (including chimpanzee and three species
of colobus monkey), plus 74 species of bats and 37 species of small
rodents. Ghana also possesses several of West Africa's rarest birds,
including a dozen species dependent on undisturbed forest. To the extent
that the project will protect the remaining reserved forest as 'natural'
forest, and support the protection of several parks and wildlife reserves,
the indeterminate value of these fauna will be maintained.
ERR. NPV and Sensitivity Analvsis
(a) Total Project
rK OWnOI PIECT - MAL PUT!
13   196   19 1m    9   19M  1993  194   15   m6   197   16   1999  2000 2001-232
IuTFLU        134   9,0   6,0   40   3,0   27   2,7   2,7   2,7   2.7   2,7   2,7   2,7    2,7
UFLUO                21   4.3   6,5  8a6  1068  10.9  11,0  11,2  11.5  12,3  12,8  13.2    13.6
TOTA. PIECT  -13,4  -69  -1,7   2,5   5,6   8,1   8.2   8,3   8.5   8.8   9,6  10,1  10,5    10@9
------------- -    -   --------



-116 -
Annex 3-13
page 5 of 8
n11  m  U El- MUS at A IuI CM 1 RATE 1l
aglm    UP l         UP 2       UP 5      MO   102   N202         5 502  LAS IV LB 2               LAO 3 V
cam               20.8        26.8       32*7       50*7        14.8        8.8       -9.1        15.J       10.4        5.9
UP 1in            16,t        22.9      2MR         4bB       10.9         4,?      -13.0       11,4         6.5        2.0
It 2              13.0        19.0       24t9       42.9        7.0         1.0      -16.9        7.5         2.        -1.9
1u 3               1.3        7.2        13s2       31.2        -4&7      -10.7      -28.6       -4.2        -9.1      -13.6
_  10o            24*7        30.7       36.6       54.6        18.7       12.7       -5.2       19.2        144J        to.
_  i              28*6        34.6       40.5      58.        22.6        26.6       -1.3       23.1        18,2       13.7
I II              40.3        46.        52.2       70.2       34.3        28#3       10.4       34.9       294,        25.4
2*s I VW                        -           -                -          -          -             19.9        13.9        9.
Ut 2 vim                                                                                            -        17,2        2.7
LS 3                 -           -          -          -          -           - V IM-
XNTESL RAI O Ew KM   E W smS
IBM       1U 102     UP 206     1 503    _  16    NW 201   DOW SU  LA91 11LAO 2 VWSLO 3 V
amIUT           21.439      24.248    2MO926      34.305      18.43      15.272      3.335     17.039      14*167     12.22
UP 1t           18,742      21.439     23.M       31ROM5     15811t      12773       0.934     t4,9U       12,467    loo5
It 26z          1443U       18.973     216439     28.223      13.573     140542     -1*302     13.109      10.938      9.31
U SU             10.542     12.908     15272      21.439      7u          4946      -7.474      8,486       7.93       6.
no 102          24.S52      27.50      30*312     38.259     21.439       8.t2l      5.964     19.395      16.060     13.746
W 20            28.223      31.3J5     34.360     42.96      24.92       21.439  8. 911   22.116           16.28      15.15
DM13 50         45.613      4.86       53.948     65.792     41.256      36.72B     21.439     34164      274.43      23.321
LAO I mw                        -                -                -                            21.439      17.039     14.167
L$ 2 VIM                                                                                           -      21.439     17.039
LAS 3 1              -          -           -          -          -          -           -                     -      21.439



- 117 -
Annex 3-13
page 6 of 8
(b)   Improved Forest Manamemnt
GHANA
FOREST RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT - IMPROVED FOREST MIANAGEMENT
19     1969   mo    1991   1M          1993 m4-2002
OUIFLON              12.4    7.7    4.2    2.7    2*1    2.0           2.7
IlLOI                   -    2.1    4.3    6*5    8.6   10.8          10,8
Fram  IWm   Wt    -12.4   -5.6    0.1    3.8    6.5    8.8             8.1
FEmur  M     W NET Sir   AT A it31EV IIE l 10t
IRTOT     UP ,10      UP 20S     W 502    N      ZM      9102           OZ  LA  I V    LAS 2 YEASLAS 3YE
tOI                22.1        27.7       33.3        S0.1        16.5       10.9        -5.9        17.0        1264        3,2
1  101             13.7        24.3       29.9        46.7        13.1        7.5        -9.3        13.6        9.0         44
UP 2               15.3        20.9       26.5        43.3         9*7        4.1       -12.6        10*2        5,6         1.4
1132                5.2        t0.8       16.4        33.2        -0.4       -6.0       -22.8         0.1       -4.5        -.7
_     in           25.5        31.1       36.7        53.5        19.9       14.3        -2.5        20.4        15*8       11.6
MU 2               28.9        34.5       40.1        56.8        23.3       17.7         0.9        23.8       19.2        15.0
m_   0             39.0        44,6       50.2        67.0        33.4       27.8        11.1        33.9       29.3        25.1
Lim I VA                          -          -                 -           -          -              20.1        15.5       11.3
LAS 2 lEWMS                                                                                             -       18.3        14.1
US 3 VWS                                                                                                            -       16.6
ITETU. PATES OF REtUN  F C T N  SllS
IRIOT     UP t        11 UP 20Z  U 502  _WIO           3E 2CS    ONSOZ        S I VW  LASL2 TMSLAS 3 MM
TOT             24.844      27.948     30.903      39.122      21.52      18.014       4.604      19,380     15.907      13.4k
It 102           21.960      24,844     27.672      35.488      18,679     15.236       1.826      17.125     14079       11.H 4
11 20            19.225      22.116     24.844      32.334      16.126     12.748      -0.814      15.105     12.430      10.549
LV 502           12.748      15.475     18.014      24.844       9.770      6,445      -8.606      10.042      8.264       7.0
NW  10i          28.283      31.542     34.659      43.383      24,844     21.7f        7.00       21.933     17.960      15.#2
m  1203          32.334      35,797     39.122      48,488      28.6g9     24.844      10,921      24.876     20.301      17.1U
m  503           51.456      56 002     60.581      n.504       46.67      41.699      24.844      37.834     30.276      25*41
Ls                    -           -          -           - -                    -           -      24,844     19.#30      15.IS7
LA 2                  -           -          -           -           -          -           -           -     24.44       19W
ULS 3 hES             -           --E                                                                              -      24*.4



- 118 -                            Annex  i-in
page 7 of 8
(c) Rural Forestry
tffl           VWW F1E0CT -     fWl
198    1989   I0   19  I I2-1M93   194   1M5   19    197    1M              199    2000   2001 2082-12
OTFnalI            1.0    1.3    1.8    1.3        1.0    0.2    0.0    0.0    0.1    0.1    0,l    0.1    0.1            0.l
INfLO                       -       -       - -            0.1    0.2    0.4    0.7    1.5    2.0    2.4    2.8           2.3
NM  FOREST        -1.0   -1.3   -1.8   -1*3       -1.0   -0.1    0*2    0.4    0.7    1.4    1.          2.3    2.7       2,7
ruEi wJS           T  SlkB AT A 313C0 PATE IOF 10
1RT       UP 10         2 UP  29 UP SOZ   DOWIOZ    NW2           NW11102 A1S I 5061   EARLA 2 NIMLB 3 
IOT                 2.2        3.0         3.8        6.1        t14         0.6        -1.8        M.4         0.8        0*2
IF 10i              1.6        294         3.2        5.6        0.8        -0.0        -2.4        0.9         0.2       -0.4
It 202              1.0        t.8         2.6        5.0         0.2       -0.6        -3.0        0.3        -0.4       -1.0
F 52               -0.7        0.1         0.9        3.2        -1.5       -2.3        -4.7       -1.5        -2.1       -2.7
M102                2.7        35         4.3         6.7         1.9        1.2        -1.2        2.0         1.4       0to
1  202              3.3        4.1        4.9         7.3        2.5         1.7        -0.7        2.6         1.9        1.3
NW  502             Sol        5.9        6.7         9.1         4.3        3.5        11         4.3         3.7        3.1
L*A  I YEM                       -           -          -          -                                2.0         1.3        0.7
LAO 2 VA5             -                      -          -           -          -           -                    1.8        1.2
LAB 3    BE--                                                                                   -                 -        1-6
INTERWL PATES O  MMIU  Ot IET STNS
NMT       UP 102 la     20Z        UP 502   OM  102   N1W 202    _ 6502 16A1  E VALAS 2 VEMS LW  3 TWMS
ClTOT            12.879     13.771      14.597     160768      t11.90     10.839       6.739     11847       10.973     10.223
IF 102           12.000     12*879      13.693     15.831      11.042      9.988      5.934      11.047      10.238      9.53
IF 202           11.207     12.076      12.879     14.988      10.261      9.219       5.207     10.325       9.574      327
UP 502            9.219     10.061      10,839     12.879      8.301       7*288       3.365      8.507       7.899      ?.V1
low3 I1          13.866     14.773      15.612     17.822      12.879     11.794       7.637     12.744      11.795     10loo2
1 202            14MO8      15.912      16.748     19.022      13.963     12.87?      8.55       13.761      12.726     11.041
NW1 502          19.689     20.689      21.617     24.062      18.603     17.411      12.87      1799M      16*579      15.312
LW  1 TEAR           -           -          -           -          -           -          -      12.879      11.847     loom
LA 2 TEMS             -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -      12,879     11*.47
LAB 3 YEARS           -          -          -           -          -           -          -           -          -      12.37



- 119 -
Annex 3-13
page 8 of 8
(d) Calculation of Weiphted Average Economic Value of High Forest
Logs. per m3
(Cedis)
Economic
Species                       Cut S             Value per m3
T. scleroxylon                       27                  9,150
M. excelsa                           12                  16,800
T. ivorensis                         10                 25,950
A. robusta                            7                  39,600
Khaya spp.                            5                 30,450
E. utile                              4                 43,350
N. papivifera                         4                 24,450
T. superba                            4                 12,150
E. cylindriam                         3                 39,600
E. angolense                          3                 24,450
P. macrocarpa                         3                 24,450
P. elata                              2                 51,000
T. hecklii                            2                 30,450
M. altissima                          2                  39,600
B. utilis                             1                 30,450
D. benthamiamus                       1                 24,450
Mitragyna spp.                        1                  22,800
G. cedrata                            1                 16,800
N. didevidii                          1                 16,800
P. africanum                          1                 16,050
G. chie                               1                 43,350
Other                                 5                  1.350
100
Weighted ave. - 21,500 cedis ($108.3) per m3



IBRD 15116R
BURKINA  FASO
-C' t.      - .  , - *- -*  ^ ~--  --  *_,   /                               .G H A N A
UPPER          Balgoionga Igo                         RAINFALL   AND
#1  jUPPER, WEST                           EAST                                               ECOLOGICAL ZONES
REGION                                                       HIGH FOREST ZONE
*4,_.'   REG1ON     -) )              ;          ,                   '>         s     Equotorial Roin Forest
Tronsition Zone
/ ()                                 f oNosio         f              Moist Semi-deciduous
0Nai                                         Forest
to.                 wo                                                                                          SAVANNAH ZONE
i3                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Guinea So%vonnoh
,.   j  (            ;                                  5             vfWoodland
-   Sudon Sovannoh
Woodland
NORTHERN  REGION                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~Coastal Thicketaond
\-  \-    '      ~    ~N O  R T H E R N          R E G I O  N                                    G,eCrc°5ss°londTck   n
Tamale                                       Mangroves
5i'                                                          . -                                -  -- Roinfoll (mm)
0Domongo                                                                     Rivers
9- .                                                             -                                    \      _  _  Region Boundories
International
Boundaries
COTE                                                                  Solgo goz   N.
D'IVOIRE  t-, '
)"             .                /                   Atebublu
BRONGj- AHA" 0  REGION\,                                                           TO   oG 
(~~ ~ ~ ,( 0\ ".)                   -iro                                         )                  5 
I Sunyoni                        Eju-rol.')-
- 7' /.'         f   ,,      ~~~A  S  H  A  N  T I'.   . 2         ',z   \                       , 
Kuraosi         -
R E G I ON                                                     O/
EASTERN ,,
t  .W.,.     -,,                                      ',j    ';',7 .*
\   ,   t  l            i                      -.,. o Z  . ,. <_.     , ---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
W                      A.  x                 I            REGION ESTafariduo          EV2R. N                                ei
. E ,S,. : ., E R-.N, t ,.                                               ACCRA .   _.     _  __\-.;........_7
>  :   C E N  T R A .t .  -i                           MALIK                 NIGER
RE~~~~~~ETA G,IMANLI
|)       R E G I O N           3,:    RE G  O N -C. CR                                  .         (URKINA' 
GUINEA
.  >4 yOTE                                                              ) ,. >;}  .-  . .  ,  .J;  NIGERIA
ir_        _         .                          .-                                                io   COTE  t     ,1 
-5        ,                       2 /1   T                     0 0      20  30  40  50 MILES               )ERDAR  19RE
Axgrr°;,  | i,, . Tokorodi             60  20  40  60   80 KILOMETERS
FtBRUARY I1987



IBRD 18469R1
30                                                                              0                                                       2
BURKINA    FASO                                                            0' 2-
,,° - -_ > /          r                      GHANA
UPPER EAST, .                       /                    VEGETATION ZONES
J       0,                                B       solgatngao       ,
UPPER WEST                        REGION
REGION                                                                                   L  _   Reserved Forest
7 /  *                                           \_                      Unrescrved Closed Forest
)       Wa                       -                    Nasia                                                Rain Forest
10o              oWa                   KJ                                                                            Trrnsition Zone         10
- _    ,                              ~                                |                      Moist Semi-Deciduous Forest!
(_  ,,ffi                                                                                                   Celtis-Triplochiton Association
K   .                   NORTHERN                   REGION                                                -      Antioris Chlorophora
Tamal%                                7   "                     Associotion
j)      M      sGuineo Savannah Woodland
Damongo                                                                      *. Sudan Savannah Woodland94
9.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
90  K                                                                                          ,       Thicket and Grassland
COTE  \"                            __}                                    ( ~                Lij  Strand and Mangrove
COTE                                                            -.°aao                            '
D'IVOIRE    \                        -0                         :       Stsla        S         .<j 3 Region Boundaries
I  .~) j                                            S---   International Boundaries
Bamboi                    (                    .                                                               8
- 8°        g                   BRONG-AHAFO
/                           REGION                 OAtebubu                V                  -"
A  i 5~*- *,r
Sunyan0        C  -'           E   o
/t2/,/<   [t 1- ASHANTI                                                                  TOGO
|Kumasi
REGION                     EASTERN    A  <1<K
-6   2;,2wsWESTERN ' \ --....REGION                                              6Kofornduo                                                     P- r <  6°
h                    ;3'S N          '"                               ._ GREATER    <-                    . Keta
K .E~ U .   )  ,   '-   ---ACCR4
n  _              S- a-  CENTRAL                        Y  
,     REGION    L0  REGION                               ACCRA
_5"                                                                                              0 /  o  10 20 30 40  50 MILES
Axim0'               Takoradi                                                0   20  40  60  80 KILOME7ERS
,p         P--h  - I100000Vd by Uo Wo Kd 6.-  5   Pf tOO CO  .10,
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S .0.1, WoO 06 ooy0onno5 by:U        t0* rO hc ,00.00 v orno ' h Kr00. 640 0,00 Lbs 010,00,0
Fra C-o00arS Iho darl-! S,o - ,. .d00 tw Lo0doob 0h0w0 Po 'h1W dO 00o
"w, Pe r paen ot rh' ftoM r13,i. -n4 rvWeu:V    C3.,P_f r  rn3r 
30                         2"                          1"°                       00 Pt on  &eXAl .bls 'coo s   006000 .!0, e 0fl00 600o,bO, 0c0r010000 ol 0,001, eor.ooAUS1



IBRD 18393R1
2-                                                        ol 201                        10                              2°
BURKINA FASO                                                                     -
110                           7 *-; tw,0 ,0203p4,05, MS GHANA1
GREAT SOIL GROUPS
F~OREST ZONE
Farest Ochrosols
E ] Forest Oxysals
Forest Ochrosol-Oxysol
A      intergrades
Forest Rubrisol-Ochrasol
intergrodes
Forest Lithosols        10
INTERIOR SAVANNAH ZONE
Savannah Ochrasols
Savannah Ochrosals with
same Lithosols ond
Brunosols
Groundwater L.aterites and
Grou dwoter Laterite-
Ochrosol intergrades
Tropical Block Earths        90-
9.                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Acid Gleisols
cOASTAL SAVANNAH ZONE
COTE                                                                                     F-71~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z   Sovonnah Ochrosols
Regosalic Groundwater
Loter tes
D'IVOIRE                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tropical Block Earths
i Sodiurn Vleisols
Tropical Grey Earths
so                                                                                                                          IZT    Acie Gleisois              8
'4                             ~~~~~~~~~~RegoSals
r                                                                                                                       T~Aim  ooal    04  6   011OGO  7ER
Axim                                                                          2'0~~~~~1    0  E Dt SE  I   46eY~    W eVt =OMETRS~  o 
AUGUST 1980



IBRD 18484R2
3°                    2-                     0°                      o                                              2°
BURKINA  FASO                                                  0                       10                      20
GHANA
K)pHonib  ~~<|~s X               I !              ADMINISTRATIVE AND
I~EGIO                \                 rNTRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE
UPPER WEST  N   t                       -
('\ ] REGION    / \ J   WbH  RGO
- 10       ;     8 WA                                   jp              /       / 7)                                       10°-
\ .           ~~~~NORTHERN  -Tb          -v'REGION  wqg
BV'Pe  ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~         - Primary Roads
Major Secondary Roads
…E    \-- Other Secondary Roads
COTE  \  \    }       (       .J              >ee         } J       \ - js             Railroads
D'IVOIRE   \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~                                       0 ~~~Region Headquarters
*g   National Capital
D Region Boundaries
-8°   gA50S1ipO                                                                           I o' /   *)  >\    SDti  (  -   International Boundaries
-AHAFO  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~, Ports
/ ft          BR  iG-AHAFO R bION                         *, j              \       >s   ot
(~~~~~~~~A                NI                                                                             7-  t 
.Lra  SNIANI  (0%,                                     w S-' 'I'                                                              I
7Z\<wS^If- '4                                                                                    T O G O
s ~ ~  ~ ~ ~~                ~    E               N   koo,bo         A@f
6'0     WESTERN  6,- 6
\<tCREiRO44ZiTRE
REGION Tork*o
Nkw-f oAT
_y.   jmw                                                                          9  1,0   3,0 4,0 5O MILES                S
Axi           0Tkor adi ,                         
0  20  40  60  80 KILOMETERS
mh,,ma me r  pr_ wed b The V   80*' S a r  m c0nbwIC* Of
F*W.. C:V0vWR Te   k Urn &W me bavie Owo a, men. 0    do wt
hp    e.tof TNe ie4da waffsWha,Eom FWww Cvqpwa5cnW AN%Pmd
an goe v. am of~ NeUV onm rw  Wsw orn nawowbm ofajd suh otnau
AUGUSt 1986



IBRD 18472R
3I                        2-                       0I.            .0                                                                 20
BURKINA   FASO                                                                                            $HANA
°  *                               s ' $    ' I                                       5~~~~~~HANx             ,°
UPPER EAST1 @                                             EROSION HAZARD
§          -    /    ~~~BoIgoatqngco'Ib    a
UPPER WEST                       REwON.-   '                                                            o
KEGION   \1   x    V     .        '        \                       , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lanco  3aj where the predomi-
I9EGION                                                                                  -    o~eoinhz'  ssiht
to moderate sheet erosion
I /) tJJ    $                 ~       t'                                Land area where the predomi-
(~99           A                             <                             i    _nont erosion hazord is a con-
bination of moderate to s-e
PO                                                                                              V'- ' N>THERN -yRE sheera  an  gu ond e
'                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~erosion but mare  the latter
Land area where the predomi-
/                    --           '                                         I /  wi  ^  v  9 ft j  nant erosion hozard is with
moderate tveysevere sheet
NORTfiERN         TRCVNcI                                                     the former
_       /                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Land orw where the predo-
2                                                 's-. x    f   >;    /  \  t   @eslight to very slight sheet ero-
90                       0~. Domongo                                                                    s .ion
Regicn Boundories
International Boundaries
COTE   \                                                              Iog
D'IVOIRE \                                               '>
- Bamboi       "  -
80                      8I~~"BONG-AHAF                        ~5                           
i                          REGI" -O -  '3   A b   o                        -EG -O        I
7/Q                                /,5ANI b>Kil                                                                 TOGO                         7]
/n  h   5i                                 o';K M ,  ,
Ket
60  AWSTEft                                         REGINS KEGION6
R==  I O       ,N                                       ACCRA
5°-5 --                                     -                                                  ,1   0s  4              l    }S
-  f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p21D'O4S  IE
r Takotodi                                            o          20   40  60  ao KILOMETERS
Culf          of          G unert
~.C_~.ae  h 1*.owte _.a zIt. be.e  dct.,  I7  *4601w
at. e1 e.shf d   t. Kbi6t me t   e     rs  _
AUGUST 1986



