Page  1
                            DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1976 GH
                               DANIDA Grant
                                 Agreement
                   (Forest Resource Management Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      as Administrator of Grant Funds
                              Provided by the
                  DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                         Dated September 20, 1989
                            DANIDA GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1976 GH
                          DANIDA GRANT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 20, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION, as Administrator
(the Administrator) of Grant Funds provided by the DANISH INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (DANIDA).
      WHEREAS (A) the Recipient has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and DANIDA in the
financing of the Forest Resource Management Project (the Project) described
in Schedule 2 to Development Credit Agreement Number 1976 GH, dated February
16, 1989, between the Recipient and the Association (the Development Credit
Agreement);
      (B)   the Association has granted a Credit for this purpose on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
      (C)   DANIDA wishes to make available to the Recipient a grant in an
amount equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($8,300,000) (the DANIDA Grant) to assist the Recipient in carrying out part
of the Project on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
      (D)   pursuant to arrangements, dated                  ,  between
DANIDA and the Association, DANIDA has requested the Association, and the
Association has accepted, to administer the DANIDA Grant in accordance with
the provisions of those arrangements; and
      (E)   the Recipient acknowledges that the financial assistance
extended to the Recipient under this DANIDA Grant Agreement shall be
considered as part of the bilateral development aid extended by DANIDA to
the Recipient;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association", dated January 1, 1985, (the General
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement subject, however,
to the following modifications thereof:
      (a)   the term "Association", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the International Development Association, acting as Administrator of
the DANIDA Grant, pursuant to the arrangements between DANIDA and the
Association referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, except in the
phrase "member of the Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02
(e);
      (b)   the term "Development Credit Agreement", wherever used in the
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Credit", wherever used in the General Conditions,
means the DANIDA Grant extended to the Recipient under this Agreement;
      (d)   the term "Credit Account", wherever used in the General
Conditions, shall be amended to read "DANIDA Grant Account";
      (e)   Section 4.01 shall be modified to read:
            "Withdrawals from the DANIDA Grant Account shall be made in
      dollars; provided, however, that, if the expenditures to be financed
      out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant have been paid or are payable
      in another currency, the Administrator shall, at the request of the
      Recipient and at the time of a withdrawal from the DANIDA Grant
      Account, purchase such currency with the proceeds of such
      withdrawal."
      (f)   in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the
International Development Association acting in its own capacity;
      (g)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
      later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient
      and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the
      Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
      Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      Project referred to in the Preamble to the DANIDA Grant Agreement,
      the performance by the Recipient and the Administrator of their
      respective obligations under the DANIDA Grant Agreement and the
      accomplishment of the purposes of the DANIDA Grant";
      (h)   Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05,
7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted; and
      (i)   the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions,
means the Recipient.
      Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in
the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Development Credit Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Grant
      Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Recipient, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to herein, a grant in an
amount equivalent to eight million three hundred thousand dollars
($8,300,000).
Page  3
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the DANIDA Grant may be withdrawn from
the DANIDA Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by
agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator.
      (b)   The Recipient shall open and maintain in dollars in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator: (i) a
special account (Special Account MLNR) for the purposes of Parts B.1 through
B.4 of the Project; (ii) a special account (Special Account AFU) for the
purposes of Part B.5 of the Project; and (iii) a special account (the
Special Account IRNR) for the purposes of Part D of the Project. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree,
contracts for goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
DANIDA Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
      (b)   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for any such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant, and the Administrator
may, by notice to the Recipient, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under this Agreement,
cancel such amount of the DANIDA Grant as, in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant.
      Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995, or such later
date as the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly
notify the Recipient of such later date.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Articles
III, IV and V and Schedules 2, 3 and 5 of the Development Credit Agreement
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect
as if they were fully set forth herein. All references to the Association
in said Articles shall be deemed to be references to the Administrator of
the DANIDA Grant under this Agreement, all references to the Credit and the
Credit Account shall be deemed to be references to the DANIDA Grant and the
DANIDA Grant Account, respectively, and all references to the Borrower shall
be deemed to be references to the Recipient.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Effectiveness; Representation;
                    Transfer of Rights and Obligations
      Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
      Section 4.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
      Section 4.03. The PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic
Planning of the Recipient shall be the representative of the Recipient for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 4.04. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Recipient:
            PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning
Page  4
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box M40
            Accra
            Republic of Ghana
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMICON                    2205 MIFAEP GH
                  Accra
      For the Administrator:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      Section 4.05. In accordance with the arrangements referred to in the
Preamble to this Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement may be transferred to DANIDA. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice to that effect by the Administrator to the
Recipient, DANIDA shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice,
be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement as if DANIDA had been an original party to this Agreement, without
any further action or formality required on the part of any party and, from
such date, the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations
as a party under this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                                Termination
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the DANIDA
Grant has been fully disbursed, and the parties to this Agreement have
fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                  By /s/ Kwesi Botchey
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     as Administrator of Grant Funds
                        provided by the
                  DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
                  By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the DANIDA Grant
Page  5
1.    The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the
DANIDA Grant to said Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in said Category:
       Amount of the
      Grant Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategoryDollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
Parts B.1 through B.4
of the Project
(1)     Civil works                         670,000 100% of foreign
             expenditures and
             65% of local
             expenditures
(2)     Equipment,                   570,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                                   expenditures and
    vehicles                                70% of local
                                            expenditures
(3)     Consultants'               1,335,000        100%
    services, train-
    ing and fellow-
    ships
(4)     Operating                    695,000        80% in FYs 1989
    costs                                   and 1990,
                                            75% in FY 1991,
                                            65% in FY 1992,
                                            40% in FY 1993
                                            and 25% in
                                            FY 1994
Part B.5 of the Project
(5)     Civil works                  130,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            65% of local
                                            expenditures
(6)     Equipment,                   400,000        100% of foreign
    materials and                                   expenditures and
    vehicles                                70% of local
                                            expenditures
(7)     Consultants'                 500,000        100%
    services, train-
    ing and fellow-
    ships
(8)     Operating                    710,000        80% in FYs 1989
    costs                                   and 1990,
                                            75% in FY 1991,
                                            65% in FY 1992,
                                            40% in FY 1993
                                            and 25% in
                                            FY 1994
Part D of the Project
(9)     Civil works                  710,000        100% of foreign
                                            expenditures and
                                            65% of local
                                            expenditures
(10) Equipment,                      310,000        100% of foreign
     materials and                                  expenditures and
     vehicles                                       70% of local
Page  6
                                            expenditures
(11) Consultants'                    900,000        100%
     services, train-
     ing and fellow-
     ships
(12) Operating                       600,000        80% in FYs 1989
     costs                                  and 1990,
                             75% in FY 1991,
                                            65% in FY 1992,
                                            40% in FY 1993
                                            and 25% in
                                     FY 1994
(13) Unallocated                     770,000
        TOTAL                      8,300,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means the expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Recipient; and
    (c)   the term "operating costs" means the costs normally referred to
as recurrent expenditures, excluding salaries and allowances for Project
staff, but including:
          (i)   cost of operating and maintaining vehicles, equipment,
                buildings and houses required for the Project;
          (ii)  office running expenses, cost of stationary and supplies,
                library acquisition and training materials;
          (iii) cost of maintaining the seed gardens and the irrigation
                system; and
          (iv)  such other Project related costs as the Recipient and the
                Administrator may from time to time determine.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                             Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of Special
Account MLNR, Categories (1) through (4); (ii) in the case of Special
Account AFU, Categories (5) through (8) ; and (iii) in the case of Special
Account IRNR, Categories (9) through (12) as such Categories are set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the DANIDA Grant allocated from time to
time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn
from the DANIDA Grant Account and deposited into the respective Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, equivalent to $200,000
in the case of Special Account MLNR, equivalent to $100,000 in the case of
Page  7
Special Account AFU, and equivalent to $150,000 in the case of Special
Account IRNR.
2.  Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the corresponding
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective
Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of any Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Administrator a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the respective Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the DANIDA Grant Account
and deposit into said Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Recipient shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of any Special Account, the Recipient
                shall furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits
                into the Special Account at such intervals as the
                Administrator shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient
                shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the
                Recipient, withdraw from the DANIDA Grant Account and
                deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
                Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such
                deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the
                DANIDA Grant Account under the respective Eligible
                Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
                shall have been justified by said documents and other
                evidence.
4.  For each payment made out of any Special Account, the Recipient shall,
at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment
was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into any
Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the DANIDA
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the DANIDA Grant allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the DANIDA Grant Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the DANIDA Grant allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice
to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in any Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was
Page  8
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Administrator may request; or (B) deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so request, refund to
the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into any Special
Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly
upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such
outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in any Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a) ,
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the DANIDA Grant Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
