Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1976 GH
               (Forest Resource Management Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 16, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1976 GH
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A)  the  Association  has  received  a letter, dated
December 5,  1988,  from  the  Borrower  describing  a  program of
actions, objectives and  policies  designed  to achieve structural
adjustment of the  Borrower's  forestry sector (hereinafter called
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program, and requesting  assistance from the Association in
the financing  of  urgently  needed  imports  required during such
execution;
     (B)  the  Borrower,  having   satisfied   itself  as  to  the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
Page  2
     (C)  the  Borrower  intends  to  contract  from  the Overseas
Development Administration of  the  United  Kingdom  (ODA) a grant
(the ODA  Grant)  in  an  amount  of  three  million seven hundred
thousand pounds sterling (€ 3,700,000)  to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and  conditions  set forth in a memorandum of
understanding (the ODA Memorandum  of Understanding) to be entered
into between the Borrower and ODA;
     (D)  the  Danish  International  Development  Agency (DANIDA)
wishes to make  available  to  the  Borrower  a  grant (the DANIDA
Grant) in an  amount  equivalent  to  eight  million three hundred
thousand dollars ($8,300,000) to  assist  in financing the Project
and has requested the  Association  to administer the DANIDA Grant
on the terms and conditions set  forth in an agreement (the DANIDA
Grant Agreement) to be entered  into  between the Borrower and the
Association; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                            ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the  last  sentence  of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "AFU" means the Agroforestry Unit within MOA;
     (b)  "Cedis" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "FD" means the Forestry Department within MLNR;
     (d)  "FPIB" means the Forest Products Inspection Bureau;
     (e)  "FPRI" means the Forest Products Research Institute;
     (f)  "FY" and "Fiscal Year" mean the period from January 1 to
December 31 of each year;
     (g)  "GWD" means  the  Game  and  Wildlife  Department within
MLNR;
     (h)  "IRNR"  means  the   Institute   for  Renewable  Natural
Resources;
     (i)  "MLNR"  means  the  Borrower's  Ministry  of  Lands  and
Natural Resources;
     (j)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (k)  "PNDC" means the Provisional National Defence Council;
     (l)  "Project  Executing  Agencies"   means  the  ministries,
departments and institutions responsible for carrying out parts of
the Project;
     (m)  "Project Preparation Advances"  means the project prepa-
ration  advances  granted  by  the  Association  to  the  Borrower
pursuant  to  exchanges  of  letters,  dated  December  24,  1987,
January 12, 1988, June 29,  1988,  and August 2, 1988, between the
Page  3
Borrower and the Association;
     (n)  "SFS" means the School of Forestry at Sunyani;
     (o)  "Special Accounts"  means  the  accounts  referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (p)  "TEDB" means the Timber Export Development Board.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to thirty million  six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 30,600,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association  shall  so  agree,  to  be  made)  in  respect  of the
reasonable cost of  goods  and  services  required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  open  and  maintain  in dollars in a
commercial  bank  on  terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to the
Association: (i) a special account  (Special Account MLNR) for the
purposes of Parts A, B.1 through B.4  and C of the Project; (ii) a
special account (Special Account AFU) for the purposes of Part B.5
of the Project; (iii) a special account (Special Account IRNR) for
the purposes of Part D of  the Project; and (iv) a special account
(Special Account FPRI) for the purposes  of Part E of the Project.
Deposits into, and payments out  of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of  the   Project   Preparation   Advances  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advances shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1995, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
Page  4
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing February 15,  1999,  and  ending  August 15, 2028. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on August 15,
2008, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the  Executive  Directors  of  the  Association  and  after due
consideration  by  them  of  the  development  of  the  Borrower's
economy, modify  the  terms  of  repayment  of  installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring  the  Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such  installment  not  yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall  have  been  repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower,  the  Association  may  revise  such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts of
such installments,  the  payment  of  interest  at  an annual rate
agreed with the Association on  the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association,  such  revision  shall not change the
grant  element  obtained   under   the  above-mentioned  repayment
modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
the Project Executing Agencies  with  due diligence and efficiency
and  in  conformity  with  appropriate  administrative, financial,
agricultural,  environmental  and  forestry  practices,  and shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
Page  5
     Section  3.02.  Without  any   limitation  upon  any  of  its
obligations under Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
     (a)  open and maintain in  a  commercial bank accounts in the
name of FD,  GWD,  AFU,  IRNR  and  FPRI  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the  Association  to  be  used exclusively for the
purpose of meeting expenditures under the parts of the Project for
which these agencies are  responsible  and  which are not financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
     (b)  in  addition  to  the  initial  amounts  referred  to in
Section 6.01  (b)  of  this  Agreement,  deposit  in said accounts
promptly  before  each  month   starting   October  1,  1989,  the
Borrower's contribution towards  expenditures under the respective
Parts of the Project as  set  forth  in FD's, GWD's, AFU's, IRNR's
and FPRI's approved annual budget for the following month.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the  request  of  either party, exchange views on
the progress achieved in carrying  out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, for  its  review and comment, a report
on the progress  achieved  in  carrying  out  the  Program in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
     Section  3.04.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures of the Project  Executing  Agencies in respect of the
Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account and the accounts referred to in
               Section 3.02 of this Agreement for each fiscal year
               audited  in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently   applied  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
Page  6
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02.  Until  an  action  plan  has  been prepared in
accordance with paragraph 4 of  Schedule  4 to this Agreement, the
Borrower shall not ban log  exports  of any species in addition to
those species whose export was prohibited on October 1, 1988.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  A situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a  significant  part thereof, will be carried
out.
     (b)  (i)   Subject to  subparagraph  (ii)  of this paragraph,
                the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                of  any  grant  made   to  the  Borrower  for  the
                financing  of   the   Project   shall   have  been
                suspended, cancelled or terminated  in whole or in
                part,  pursuant  to  the  terms  of  the agreement
                providing therefor.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation or termination  is  not  caused by the
               failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any  of its
               obligations under such  agreement; and (B) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower  has  established  the  Policy Formulation,
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation  Unit  referred to in Part C.2
of the Project;
     (b)  the Borrower has made  available,  or  caused to be made
available, initial amounts in Cedis equivalent to $260,000 for FD,
Page  7
$32,500 for GWD, $74,600 for AFU, $60,000 for IRNR and $62,500 for
FPRI for deposit in the  accounts  referred to in Section 3.02 (a)
of this Agreement;
     (c)  the Borrower has appointed  the  head of the concessions
unit referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (d)  the Borrower  has  employed  the  forest  management and
logging specialist,  the  rural  forestry/agroforestry specialist,
the  extension  training  specialist  and  the  sector  planner in
accordance with the provisions set forth in Section II of Schedule
3 to this Agreement;
     (e)  the DANIDA Grant  Agreement  and  the  ODA Memorandum of
Understanding have been signed by the parties thereto;
     (f)  the Borrower has  introduced  a special allowance system
for FD and GWD field staff acceptable to the Association;
     (g)  the Borrower has set the level of royalty fees on timber
for FY 1989 at 6% of the FOB weighted average value;
     (h)  the Borrower has  announced timber concession allocation
procedures acceptable to the Association; and
     (i)  the Borrower  has  seconded  a  forest  officer  and two
forestry technicians from  the  Forestry  Department  to the Agro-
Forestry Unit within MOA.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The  PNDC  Secretary  for  Finance and Economic
Planning of the Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  Section  11.O3  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          PNDC Secretary for Finance
            and Economic Planning
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box M40
          Accra, Ghana
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                ECONOMICON                       2205 MIFAEP GH
                Accra
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
Page  8
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          REPUBLIC OF GHANA
                          By /s/ Eric Otoo
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Parts A, B.1 through 4
and C of the Project
(1)  Civil works                 2,100,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Equipment,                  1,790,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures and
     vehicles                                    70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                4,190,000       100%
     services, train-
     ing and fellow-
     ships
(4)  Operating                   2,170,000       80% in FYs 1989
     costs                                       and 1990,
                                                 75% in FY 1991,
                                                 65% in FY 1992,
                                                 40% in FY 1993
                                                 and 25% in
                                                 FY 1994
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Page  9
Part B.5 of the Project
(5)  Civil works                   100,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Equipment,                    310,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures and
     vehicles                                    70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(7)  Consultants'                  390,000       100%
     services, train-
     ing and fellow-
     ships
(8)  Operating                     550,000       80% in FYs 1989
     costs                                       and 1990,
                                                 75% in FY 1991,
                                                 65% in FY 1992,
                                                 40% in FY 1993
                                                 and 25% in
                                                 FY 1994
Part D of the Project
(9)  Civil works                   550,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures
(10) Equipment,                    240,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures and
     vehicles                                    70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(11) Consultants'                  700,000       100%
     services, train-
     ing and fellow-
     ships
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(12) Operating                     470,000       80% in FYs 1989
     costs                                       and 1990,
                                                 75% in FY 1991,
                                                 65% in FY 1992,
                                                 40% in FY 1993
                                                 and 25% in
                                                 FY 1994
Part E of the Project:
(13) Civil works                   860,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 65% of local
                                                 expenditures
(14) Equipment,                    930,000       100% of foreign
     materials and                               expenditures and
     vehicles                                    70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(15) Consultants'                  390,000       100%
     services, train-
     ing and fellow-
Page  10
     ships
(16) Operating                     930,000       80% in FYs 1989
     costs                                       and 1990,
                                                 75% in FY 1991,
                                                 65% in FY 1992,
                                                 40% in FY 1993
                                                 and 25% in
                                                 FY 1994
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
Part F of the Project
(17) Imports under              11,630,000       100% of foreign
     Part F of the                               expenditures
     Project
(18) Refunding of                  550,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepa-                              suant to Sec-
     ration Advances                             tion 2.02 (c) of
                                                 this Agreement
(19) Unallocated                 1,750,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  30,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "operating  costs"  means  the  costs normally
referred to  as  recurrent  expenditures,  excluding  salaries and
allowances for Project staff, but including:
          (i)  cost  of   operating   and   maintaining  vehicles,
               equipment, buildings  and  houses  required for the
               Project;
         (ii)  office running  expenses,  cost  of  stationary and
               supplies,   library    acquisition   and   training
               materials;
        (iii)  cost  of  maintaining  the  seed  gardens  and  the
               irrigation system; and
         (iv)  such other Project  related  costs  as the Borrower
               and  the  Association   may   from   time  to  time
               determine.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated  to  Category  (17)  in  the  table  set forth in
paragraph 1 of this Schedule  after  the aggregate of the proceeds
Page  11
of the Credit withdrawn from that Category and the total amount of
such   commitments   shall   have   reached   the   equivalent  of
SDR 5,900,000, unless the Association shall be satisfied, after an
exchange of views as described  in  Section 3.03 of this Agreement
based on evidence satisfactory  to  the  Association: (a) with the
progress achieved by  the  Borrower  in  the  carrying  out of the
Program; and (b) that the actions  described in Schedule 4 to this
Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to the Association.
5.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 4
above, the Association  shall  have  given  notice to the Borrower
that the progress achieved and  actions taken are not satisfactory
and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have
achieved  progress   and   taken   actions   satisfactory  to  the
Association, then the Association may,  by notice to the Borrower,
cancel the unwithdrawn amount of  the Credit allocated to Category
(17) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule or any
part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are:  (i) to introduce policy
reforms in the  forestry  sector  designed to promote conservation
and to increase revenue generation; (ii) to improve the management
of the forest resources;  and  (iii)  to strengthen the Borrower's
forestry sector institutions.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Forest Management
1.   Strengthening  of  the   Planning   Branch  of  the  Forestry
Department's capacity to prepare  working plans and timber cutting
schedules, through the acquisition  of camping and field equipment
and vehicles.
2.   Preparation of a  forest  inventory  of  the  reserves in the
tropical  high  forest  zone,  acquisition  of  vehicles, lorries,
camping  facilities  and  field   and  office  equipment  for  the
inventory teams  and  provision  of  satellite  imagery and aerial
photography of the reserves.
3.   Initial preparation of a forest  inventory of the high forest
areas outside  the  reserves,  acquisition  of  vehicles, lorries,
camping, field and office  equipment  for the inventory teams, and
provision of satellite imagery and aerial photography.
4.   Preparation  of  a  survey  and  rehabilitation  of  existing
plantations,   and   acquisition    of   camping   equipment   and
transportation facilities for the survey and inventory teams.
5.   Strengthening  of  the  forest  management  services  at  the
regional level in the high forest zone through the construction of
office buildings and staff houses and the acquisition of vehicles,
communications, office, field  and  carrying  equipment, tools and
uniforms.
Part B:   Rural Forestry
1.   Establishment and operation of  a  Rural Forestry Division in
the Forestry  Department,  including  development of agro-forestry
packages and establishment  of  demonstration  areas for different
tree planting patterns in community forests.
2.   Improvement of the  Forestry Department's seedling production
capabilities through upgrading of existing nurseries, construction
of new nurseries and production  and distribution of not less than
Page  12
seven million seedlings before the completion of the Project.
3.   Studies of land and tree tenure laws and customs.
4.   Rehabilitation of  the  Savanna  forest  reserves  in densely
populated areas.
5.   Intensification of forestry  extension to individual farmers,
including development of  agro-forestry packages and establishment
of demonstration areas  for  food  tree planting patterns, through
the strengthening of MOA's  extension  service and support to non-
governmental organizations.
Part C:   Forestry Sector Institutions
1.   Reorganization and strengthening  of  the Forestry Department
through acquisition  of  vehicles  and  equipment, construction of
office buildings and provision of training and staff development.
2.   Establishment  and   operation   of   a  Policy  Formulation,
Planning,  Monitoring  and  Evaluation  Unit  in  MLNR,  including
acquisition of vehicles and provision of training.
3.   Improvement of MLNR's ability  to handle environmental issues
in  the  forestry  sector  through  development  of  environmental
research and provision of training.
4.   Improvement of the management capabilities of FPIB and TEDB.
5.   Strengthening of  the  Game  and  Wildlife Department through
construction of laboratory  field stations, office accommodations,
living quarters, research  facilities  and  game protection camps,
acquisition of vehicles,  laboratory,  communications, camp, field
and office equipment and furniture,  and provision of training and
staff development.
Part D:   Education and Training
     Strengthening of the  education  and training capabilities of
IRNR  and  SFS   through   the   construction  of  new  buildings,
acquisition of camp and field equipment and provision of training.
Part E:   Research
     Strengthening of the  research  capabilities  of FPRI through
construction  of  new  facilities,  acquisition  of  vehicles  and
equipment and provision of training.
Part F:   General Imports
     Importation of equipment, vehicles, materials and spare parts
for the forestry sector.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  13
2.   (a)  Bidders for the works  included  in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  To the extent practicable,  contracts for goods shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods under Part F of the Project estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $2,000,000  per  contract  may be procured under
contracts  awarded:  (a)  on  the  basis  of  comparison  of price
quotations solicited from a list  of at least three suppliers from
at least three different  countries eligible under the Guidelines,
in accordance with  procedures  acceptable  to the Association, if
procured by the  Borrower,  its  political  subdivisions or state-
owned enterprises; and (b) on  the basis of the normal procurement
procedures of the purchaser of  such  goods if procured by private
entities.
2.   Items or groups of items  (other  than  those under Part F of
the Project) estimated to cost  between the equivalents of $60,000
and $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
the equivalent  of  $2,800,000,  may  be  procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Items or groups of items  (other  than  those under Part F of
the Project) estimated to cost less than equivalent of $60,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate  amount  not to exceed the equivalent
of $4,100,000, may  be  procured  under  contracts  awarded on the
basis of comparison of price  quotations  solicited from a list of
at least three  suppliers  from  at  least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines,  in  accordance with the procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 (a) hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more and with respect to
each contract  for  goods,  estimated  to  cost  the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures  set  forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  each  contract   required   to  be  furnished  to  the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
Page  14
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Accounts in respect of such contracts.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of the Special Accounts, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ   foresters,  planners,  biologists,
wildlife specialists, environmental  experts and other consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment  shall  be   satisfactory   to  the  Association.  Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to  the  Association  on  the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   The royalty fees on timber have  been increased to a level of
12% of the FOB weighted  average  value  less the costs of logging
and transportation.
2.   The weight of the  concession  rent offered by each applicant
has been  established  at  50%  within  the  overall evaluation of
applications for timber concessions and  a timetable for a further
increase to 60% has been submitted to the Association.
3.   An action plan  for  improvements  in  the  FD  and GWD staff
incentive system and the recruitment of professional and technical
staff has been submitted to the Association.
4.   (a)  A study of wood  cutting  practices, log export bans and
          log export tariffs, and  their  impact on the Borrower's
          environment  and  wood   processing  industry  has  been
          completed and  discussed  between  the  Borrower and the
          Association; and
     (b)  an action plan has been  prepared by the Borrower on the
          basis  of  said  study's  recommendations,  agreed  upon
          between the Borrower and the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Monitoring
Page  15
1.   The  overall  responsibility  for  coordinating  all  Project
activities rests with the  Chief  Director (Technical) of MLNR. He
shall be  the  chairman  of  the  Project Implementation Committee
(PIC) which shall also include  the heads of the Project Executing
Agencies and meet  at  least  once  every  quarter. PIC's function
shall  be  to   ensure   the   inter-agency  coordination  and  to
periodically assess the progress  in  carrying out the Project. In
order to evaluate  the  overall  progress  of  the  Project and to
ensure adjustments to  the  prevailing  conditions and policies, a
mid-term review shall be carried  out  not later than December 31,
1991, by the Borrower and the Association.
2.   The Policy Formulation,  Planning,  Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit shall be established within MLNR pursuant to Section 6.01 (a)
of this  Agreement  and  shall  be  headed  by  the Chief Director
(Technical).
3.   Within this framework,  the  different  parts  of the Project
shall be implemented by the  various Project Executing Agencies as
described below. Each of them shall submit to the Association, not
later than September 1 of  each year for the Association's review,
its  respective  annual  budget  and  annual  work  plan  for  the
different components in such detail  and  format as agreed upon by
the Association, including  progress  reports  on, and projectionsfor, staff 
recruitment and incentives schemes.
4.   To facilitate the carrying out  of the Project by the various
Project Executing Agencies,  the  Borrower  shall  ensure that the
Project Executing Agencies are empowered:
     (a)  to  recruit  skilled   staff   up  to  their  respective
establishment;
     (b)  to procure the  number  of  vehicles  for the Project as
stated in the approved annual work plans; and
     (c)  to limit the use  of  the  vehicles  financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to Project related functions.
Part A of the Project
5.   The Forestry Department of MLNR  shall be responsible for the
implementation of Part A of the Project.
6.   The Forestry Department's  responsibility  for overall forest
management shall  include  responsibility  for  the  collection of
royalty fees and the control  of  all concessions including, as of
October 1, 1990, those  allocated  outside the forest reserves. To
this end, a concession  unit  within the Forestry Department shall
exercise the management and  administration  of all concessions to
be  granted  by  the   Borrower   in  accordance  with  concession
allocation procedures satisfactory to the Association.
7.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  authorize the Forestry Department to restrict the annual
timber cut to the level  of  1.1  million  m3 by June 30, 1993, or
such other level that would  result from the high forest inventory
exercise; and
     (b)  increase the weighted average of  the royalty fees to at
least 18% of the  FOB  weighted  average  value of exportable logs
(less cost of transportation and logging) by January 31, 1992; the
royalty fees shall be reviewed  by  September 30 of each year and,
if the review warrants it,  be  adjusted to reflect changes in the
FOB value, exchange rates and local costs.
8.   The Borrower shall permit  the Forestry Department to deposit
the collected forestry fees  in  the  Forestry Fund which shall be
used by  the  Forestry  Department  to  finance  its recurrent and
capital costs as stated in its approved annual budget.
Page  16
Part B of the Project
9.   Parts B.1 through B.4 of the  Project shall be carried out by
the Forestry Department.
10.  In order to strengthen  the Forestry Department's involvement
in community forestry activities,  a Rural Forestry Division shall
be established not later than  June  30, 1989. This division shall
support  and  coordinate  all  rural  forestry  activities  in the
regions.
11.  Part B.5 of the  Project  shall  be  carried out by the Agro-
Forestry Unit established within  the  Crop Services Department of
MOA.
Part C of the Project
12.  Part C.1 of the Project shall  be carried out by the Forestry
Department.  To  this  end,   the  Forestry  Department  shall  be
reorganized in  a  manner  satisfactory  to  the Association; such
reorganization shall include the  establishment  of a Planning and
Monitoring Unit under  the  Chief  Conservator  of Forests and the
closing down of the Utilization Branch.
13.  The Borrower shall submit to  the Association, not later than
September 1  in  each  year  for  its  review,  its  proposals for
adjusting the staff salary and  incentive structure for FD and GWD
field staff referred to in Section  6.01 (f) of this Agreement and
implement those  adjustments,  if  any,  taking  into  account the
Association's comments.
14.  Parts C.2, C.3 and C.4 of the Project shall be carried out by
MLNR.
15.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  assign to the  Policy  Formulation, Planning, Monitoring
and  Evaluation  Unit  referred  to   in  paragraph  2  above  the
responsibility of preparing, not  later  than  January 31, 1991, a
draft National Forest Strategy and related studies;
     (b)  submit this document to  the  Association not later than
April 30, 1991, for its review;
     (c)  finalize and publish, not later than September 30, 1991,
the  National   Forestry   Strategy   taking   into   account  the
Association's comments; and
     (d)  review with the  Association,  by  September  30 of each
year until  the  completion  of  the  Project,  said  strategy and
related work programs  and  revise  them  if required, taking into
account the Association's comments.
16.  Part C.5 of the Project shall  be carried out by the Game and
Wildlife Department of MLNR.
17.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  assign to GWD the  responsibility  to prepare, not later
than  June  30,  1989,   amendments   to  the  Ghana  Wild  Animal
Preservation  Act  of  1961  which  shall  include:  (i) essential
conditions for hunting;  (ii)  definitions  of  national parks and
conservation areas; and  (iii)  duties  and  authority of wildlife
officers;
     (b)  submit these draft amendments,  not  later than July 31,
1989, to the Association for its review; and
     (c)  thereafter enact such amendments taking into account the
Association's comments.
Part D of the Project
Page  17
18.  Part D of the Project shall be carried out by IRNR and SFS.
19.  IRNR  shall  establish,  not  later  than  June  30,  1989, a
Management  Board  comprising  of  representatives  of  MLNR,  the
Forestry Department, the  Forestry  Commission,  the University of
Science and Technology,  the  forest industry and non-governmental
organizations involved in forestry.  The Management Board shall be
assisted by an Academic Committee to be established not later than
June  30,  1989,  and  to  have  a  membership  acceptable  to the
Association.  The  Academic  Committee  shall  be  responsible for
reviewing and recommending  to  the  Management Board revisions in
IRNR's  forestry  curriculum   in   line  with  national  forestry
priorities.
20.  SFS shall:
     (a)  improve its  three-year  training  program for technical
officers by introducing a revised curriculum and refresher courses
for forestry officers;
     (b)  introduce a forest guard course; and
     (c)  strengthen its teaching  capacity  through the implemen-
tation of a staff development plan.
Part E of the Project
21.  FPRI shall carry  out  Part  E  of  the  Project. In order to
enable FPRI to establish  close  cooperation with related national
scientific research  organizations,  FPRI  shall  be released, not
later than June 30,  1989,  from  the  supervision of the Forestry
Commission and be organized  as  a semi-autonomous institute under
the auspices of MLNR.
Part F of the Project
22.  The Borrower's  Ministry  of  Finance  and  Economic Planning
shall be  responsible  for  the  carrying  out  of  Part  F of the
Project.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Accounts
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account MLNR, Categories (1) through (4); (ii) in the case
of Special Account AFU, Categories  (5)  through (8); (iii) in the
case of Special  Account  IRNR,  Categories  (9) through (12); and
(iv) in the case of  Special Account FPRI, Categories (13) through
(16) as such Categories are set  forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the Eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation"  means  an amount to be
withdrawn  from  the  Credit   Account   and  deposited  into  the
respective Special Account  pursuant  to  paragraph  3 (a) of this
Schedule, equivalent to $500,000  in  the  case of Special Account
MLNR, equivalent to $150,000 in  the  case of Special Account AFU,
equivalent to $150,000 in  the  case  of Special Account IRNR, and
equivalent to $150,000 in the case of Special Account FPRI.
2.   Payments out of any Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
Page  18
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
corresponding Authorized Allocation  and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the respective Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   any  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the respective  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis of such
request or  requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into said
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  any  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for Eligible
                Expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  Eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For  each  payment  made  out  of  any  Special  Account, the
Borrower shall, at such  time  as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish  to  the  Association  such  documents  and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into any Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
any Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of any  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
Page  19
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the  Association,  the  Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion  thereof  not  so   eligible   or  justified.  Unless  the
Association shall  otherwise  agree,  no  further  deposit  by the
Association into  any  Special  Account  shall  be  made until the
Borrower has  provided  such  evidence  or  made  such  deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  any  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
any Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
