Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.   9630-CA   Type: (PCR)                                     Ret N. 9630
BARQUERO,  / X31725 / T9 059(/ OEDDI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1376-CA)
MAY 30, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       *    CFA Franc (CPAF)
Fixed Parity        -    50 CFAF - 1 French Franc
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEARS
Government          *    January 1 to December 31
SOCADA              *    November 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACADOP    Agence Centrafricaine pour le D6veloppement de l'Ouham
Pence
BDEAC     Banque de D6veloppement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAADE     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat
CFDT      Compagnie Frangaise pour le D6veloppement des Fibres
Textiles
CIMHYT    Internatir-.al Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement
(Mexico)
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation et de P6r6quation des Produits
Agricoles
DGTP      Direction G6n6rale des Travaux Publics
GIR       Groupements d'Int6rgts Ruraux
IDESSA    Institut des Savanes (Bouake)
IITA      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
INRVT     Institut National de Recheirchea Textiles et Vivri4res
IRCT      Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et lea Fibres Textiles
MAE       Minist4re de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage
ONCPA     Office National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PMEU      Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Fa.-Ility
SOCADA    Soci6t6 Centrafricaine de D6veloppement Agricole
WARDA     West Africa Rice Developmonit Association



TMH WORLD BANK
Washlnton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
o.ic d Of .cstwGse.wr
0easwuw Evaliten
Nay 30, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Central African Republic.
Cotton Area Rural DeveloDment Proiect (Credit 1376-CA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report - Central African Republic: Cotton Area Rural Development
Project (Credit 1376-CA)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
[Thisdocument has arsctd  ,tribulinn    v    hvr  '    'v I 



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLET19N REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Peas No.
Prefac- ................. ,
Evaluation 8uxmry lll
PART I.  PROJECTRvIEW ROm BANKP&RSPECTIVE.............                        1
A.  Project Identity .......................l
B. Background .........................l
C.  Project Objective. and Description                 ...               2
D.  Project Design and Organization                                      3
E.  Project Implementation .....................................  3
F.  Project R sult  ......................  3
G.  Project Sustainability                                               9
B.  Th  Bank'  Performance .....................................  9
1.  The Borrowr's Performance .                                         10
J.  Project Relationship .......                                        10
K.  Consultant Services                        lO10
L.  Project Documentation and Data                                      11
M.  Lesson* Learned             .........................               11
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FRPO BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................ 13
Borrower's Comments  (Not received) ................................. 13
PART II.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ..................................  5
1. Related Bank Credits **  .....***S15
2.  Project Tlm table ..........lS
3.  Credit Disbursements .......        .... ..... .........   ..*00. ..  16
4.  Project Implementation .......................................... 17
5.  Project Costs and Financing                                              18
6.  Project Results ................................................. 19
7.  Status of Covenants ........................................   22
8.  Mission Data ......................................24
1. * conomic Costs and Befis.t                                               27
2.  Cotton Seed Production, 1982-1990 ....                                    29
ME IBRD No. 16666R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL 4FRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
iREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Cotton Arec
Rural Development Project in the Central African Republic for which Credit
1376-CA in the amount of SDR 9.7 million ($10.4 million) was approved on
May 31. 1983. The crodit was closed on September 30, 1989. two years
behind schedule.  The last disbursement and an Insignificant cancellation
were made in February 1990.
The PCR wva prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of
the Occidental and Central Africa Department of the Africa Regional Office
(Preface. Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Borrower's contribution
(Part II) was not submitted to IDA.
Preparation of this PCR is based on a final evaluation mission
of the project in February 1990, and on the Staff Appraisal Report.
supervision reports and other documents relevant to the project.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
Credit 1376-CA was the first IDA-supported rural development
projoct in CAR. The project focussed on the cotton area, which covers
about 29% of the total area of CAR and comprises some 37% of the country's
total population. It was designed as an integrated rural development
project with strong emphasis on cotton production.
Obiectives
The principal objectives of the project were in agreement with
Government's development objectives in the agricultural sector and aimed to
(a) increase foreign exchange earnings and budgetary revenues; (b)
revitalize food production to meet the domestic demand resulting from
urbanization; and (c) develop social and physical infrastructure to raise
the income and standards of living of the rural population. Prospects for
expansion of cotton production were good because international cotton
prices at the time of appraisal were forecast to rise, farmers had a long
experience with cotton production but needed support for food crop
activities, and SOCADA--the existing cotton development agency--had started
to develop some experience in cotton production activities but was in need
of a major restructuring and rehabilitation program.
The project was expected to (a) improve cotton and food crop
production, and diversify income sources in the rural milieu; (b)
strengthen SOCADA's extension services including research and training; and
(c) improve and provide the socio-economic infrastructure needed to support
project objectives, namely feeder roads and village water supply. Total
project costs were estimated at $51.9 million of which $10.4 million was to
be provided by IDA. Several cofinanciers, namely FAC. CCCE, FED, BDEAC,
BADEA, and the Government were to contribute the remaining $41.5 million.
The project was to be implemented over a four year period.
Implementation Experience
The project was approved on May 31, 1983 and became effective in
January 1984. The credit was closed on September 30, 1989, two years
behind schedule, and the last disbursement was made in February 1990.
From its inception, the project faced many constraints that
undermined proper implementation of planned activities:



- iv -
(a) the difficult financial position of SOCADA--the implementing
agency from the onset-vwas furthor weakened in 1985/86 when
world cotton prices collapsed; and
(b)  the frequent changes in key staff (both expatriate and natical)
undermined the continuity and effectlveness of actions In
project tplementation.
Project Results
On the whole, notwithatanding the impediments to its
implementation mentioned *bove, the project achieved some of Its expected
results. The projoct's overall objective and expected benefitc of
improving the rural income and standards of living of the population in
the cotton ares, and transforming SOCADA into an effective and financially
sound development agency, were only partially reached. Rowever, in the
rural milieu the project helped consolidate and stren8then farmers
association* (Groupements d'Int6r8ts Ruraux - GIR). These associations ara
now valuable instruments for the articulation of government agricultural
policies in the rural ar es and are directly responsible for marketing
close to 70S of cotton production. The project also supportod
infrastructures by (a) rehabilitating tha rural roads network in the cotton
areaa (b) improving rural water supply; (c) renewing SOCADA's transport
fleat; and (d) rehabilitating ginning factories and strengthening
maintenance facilities. The project also served as a vehicle to strengthen
management procedures and accountability at the central level.
The recalculated Economic Rate of Return (ERR), over a 20 year
development poriod, is estimated at 3 percent against the 22.2 percent
estimated at appraisal. The much lower than expected ERR is due mostly to
the substantially lower than expected incremental cotton and food crop
production during most project years.
Sustainab1lit
Throughout the project, tho financial viability of SOCADA was
threatened due to (a) highly centralized and high-cost operations; (b)
fluctuations in the price of cotton; and (c) untimely provisions of
Government funds. Although this was recognizod early in project
preparation and stressed during project supervision, it remained a problem
at completion. Some recent progress has been made in the rehabilitation of
SOCADA's weak financial position under the auspices of the Bank-financed
Cotton Sector Adjustmant Credit. However, the sustainability of many
project activities remains a question mark, as sufficient counterpart
funding becomes more and more unlikely. Components which performed
satisfactorily during the project, namely the rural water supply program,
the feeder roads program, and the ginning and maintenance facilities have
siseable recurrent expenditures implications and may be undermined by the
prevailing financial difficulties of SOCADA and the Government.



-v-
Leossons that can be drawn from the implementation of the project
have since boen learned from similar Blnk projects in Africa.
It is nov veil established that the success of the project was
undermined by a number of exogenous events which could not have been
predicted. Uneven rainfall, the collapse of world cotton prices, the wide
svings of tha ClAP, ineffective management, and the mounting financial
difficulties experienced by the Government undermined proper project
ipl ementation and the sustainability of its achievements.
Finally, project experience clearly highlights the fact thet
even though the operation was designed as a rural development project.
albeit with cotton as the most important crop, it became a cotton project
with a marginal impact on most other food crops in the project area.



- 1 -
PROJECT COMNLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAREPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW PROS BANK PERSPECTIVE
A. PROECT IDENTITY
Project Nme  t            Cotton Area Rural Development Project
^redit Number :           1376-CA
RVP Unit      t           Africa Regional Office
Country       t           Central African Republic
Sector        t           Agriculture
B. MgmGROUND
1.        The Central African Republic (CAR) is a land-locked country in
Equatorial Africa with an area of 626,000 square kilometers. Nearly 80
percent of the population, estimated at 2.7 million in mid-1987, depends on
the agricultural sector which accounts for roughly 42 percent of GDP. Per
capita income was estimated in 1987 at $330, and social indicators, such as
life expectancy and school enrollment rates, were among the lower in the
world.
2.        The Aaricultural Sector.  In the early 1980s, CAR's agricultural
sector contributed approximately 35 percent of GDP. and 40 percent of
export earnings.  Production was predominantly based on smallholder farming
and was largely subsistence oriented.  There were about 350,000 farm
families cultivating about 520.000 ha or 9 percent of total arable land.
Agricultural practices were dominated by traditional methods and little use
was made of inputs (i.e., fertilizer, pesticides) for both export and food
crops. Food crops (cassava, groundnuts, maize) covered 80 percent of
cropped area. Cash crops (cotto3n, coffee, tobacco) were important sources
of export earnings for the Government. Their performance had, however,
started to deteriorate. Cotton, the most important cash crop in terms of
area sown and the number of families cultivating it, reached a peak of
58,700 tons in 1969, and thereafter declined steadily before stagnating
around 17,000 tons in the early 1980s.
3.        Sector Develo2ment Objectives.  In response to an overall
economic decline with negative rates of growth, growing budgetary deficits
and imbalance of external accounts, the Government aimed its development
objectives in the agricultural sector ats (a) increaosing foreign exchange
earnings and budgetary revenues, and attaining a competitive position in
world markets; (b) revitalizing food production to moet the domestic demand
resulting from urbanization and generating adequate supplies for the
agricultural processing industries; and (c) developing regional package



-2-
programs. involving both export and food crops along with the social and
physical infrastructure needed co raise the income and living standards of
the rural population. The Cotton Area Rural Development Project was to
complement the Covernment's strategy in stimulating agricultural produc.ion
and Incomes.
4.        Polic  Contxt. Under the Bokassa regime, the country was ruled
In an erratic sanner. A combination of deelining agricultural production.
unsound investments, rapidly increasing budgetary deficits and short-term
expensive borrowing led to the economic and political collapse in 1979,
whan the lokassa regime was overthrown. Tho two post-Bokassa governments
made serious attempts to re-establish at least short-term programming and
return to financial discipline. An emergency reconstruction program for
1980-81 was presented to the international comunity at a donors'
conference in early-1980 and received the general support of the Bank *nd
other donors. The Government had come to realize the importance of
agriculture in Its overall development stratogy. Subsequently, it defined
the rehabilitation of the agricultural sector, the reconstruction and
maintenance of infrastructure, the rehabilitation and improvement of
education, and a reduction in the large financial imbalances of its
accounts as the most urgent development priorities. The Cotton Area Rural
Development Project was to play a key role in the implementation of this
Strategy.
C.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.        Proi1ct Objectives.  The primary objectives of the project were
tot
(a) promote more balanced and diversified agricultural
production and income sources;
(b) rehabilitate cotton production through improvements in
productivity (i.e., yields and returns to farmers) rather
than through an expansion of t!e area under cultivation;
(c) increase food crop production--with actions focussing on
groundnuts, maize, sorghum, sesame and rice, that would fit
in the rotation cycle with cotton--through introduction of
improved varieties and better cultural practicesl and
(d) improve and provide the socio-economic infrastructure
required to sipport these objectives, namely feeder roads
and village water supply.
6.   Project Descrintion.  Thase objectives were to be achieved through a
four year program based on:  (9' strengthening SOCADA's agri:...ltural
extension system; (b) providing, through credit or cash, production Inputs
(fertilizer, pesticides) and agricultural implements; (c) supporting and
reorganizing existing applied research and seed multiplication programs;
(d) promoting animal traction; (e) maintetning 2.300 km of feeder roads and
rehabilitating 950 km of those roads; (f) constructing about 150 village
water wells; (g) improving SOCADA's five cotton ginneries; (h) improving
SOCADA's vehicle maintenance capacity; (i) establishing a project
monitoring unit and evaluation system; (j) establishing a project



coordination uniti and (k) providing short-term consultancy servicea for
specialized studies and for preparing a possib't  follow-up project.
D. PFROJCT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
7.        The project was identified in 1980 by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock (MAE), with tho assistance of a team of CFDT
specialists. Preparation was conducted in 1981 by consultants financed
undtr the Bank Technical Assistance Project (1150-CA). The project was
apprai.ed jointly by four of the five donors (IDA, PAC, FED, CCCI) In 1982.
8.        In accordance with its mandate, SOCADA, as executing agency for
the integrated development of the cotton zone, was to play the lead role in
ensuring the execution and supervision of all components excopt the Rural
Water Supply component for which the Diroctorate of Rural Works of MUE had
full responsibility. To facilitate execution of all project components, a
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) headed by an internationally recruited
project coordinator, was installed.
9.        One drawback in project design was that mcot of the management
and execution activities of the Projact were mostly in the hands of
expatriate technicians. The lack of cooperation between local staff and
expatriates resulted in little technology transfer during the project
period. In addition, project design did not specifically address programs
dealing with the most important food crop in the CARs cassava.
E.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
10.       From its inesption onwards, the project faced many constraints
that under-lined the proper implementation of planned activities. The
difficult financial position of SOCADA--the implementing agency since the
beginning of the project--was further weakened in 1985/86 when world cotton
prices collapsed. Consequently, SOCADA's ability to implement the project
as orl3inally designed was greatly reduced. Faced with th4s financial
crisis, SOCADA was obligated to adopt an adjustment program proposed by the
donor community (IDA, PAC, CCCE, FED, BDEAC) in order to ensure the
survival of the cotton subsector. Project objectives were revised to
reflect prevailing financial and institutional constraints. Subsequently,
the magnitude of some activities and the size of several cormponents were
reduced. In addition, project implementation was considerably hampered by
frequent changes in key staff (national and expatriate).
F.   PROJECT RESULTS
11.       On the whole, notwithstanding the impediments to its
implementation mentioned above, the project achieved some of its expected
results. The project's overall objective and expected benefits of
Improving the rural incomes and standards of living of the population in
the cotton area, and transforming SOCADA into an effective and financially
sound development agency, were only partially reached. However, in the
rural milieu the project helped consolidate and strengthen farmers
associations (Groupoments d'Int6rAts Ruraux - GIR). These associations are



- 4 -
nov valuable instzuments for the articulation of government agricultural
polcies in rurl areas and are directly responsible for marketing close to
702 of cotton production. The project also reinforco the infr-structure
by (a) rehabilitating the rural roads network in the cotton area; (b)
improving rural wvter supp'y; (c) renewing SOCADA's transport fleet; and
(d) rehabilitating ginning factories and strengthening maintenance
facilities. In addition, the project served as a vehicle to strengthen
uanaGe Ant procedure and accountability at the central level. The
folloving paragraphs analyze the results of the project in more detail.
12.       Financial Rehabilitation of JOCADA.  As stated above, SOCADA was
plagued by financial difficulties throughout the project duration. Even
before the project started, SOCADA had gone through various rehabilitation
and adjustment schemes with a view to rostoring its financial equilibrium.
As the project entered its second year of implementation, substantial
improvements had beer made in financial management. This was partly due to
important cost reduc Lons achieved through improvement of the ginning and
transportation opsrations. However, by the 1985-86 season a rapid decline
in world cotton prices, resulting in large deficits for SOCADA, threatened
its existence and reduced its capacity to provide its expected financial
contribution to project components. This crisis situation, once again,
forced the Government and SOCADA to undertake extraordinary cost reducing
measures. By PY4, the Government and the project cofinanciers had agreed
on a two-year adjustment program under a new project (Cotton Sector
Adjustment Credit No. 1836 - CAR). This adjustment program mainly
consisted int (a) implementing additional cost-reducing measures for the
1986-87 campaign, notably the closing of three ginneries and limiting input
distribution; (b) reducing the size of several project components taking
into account SOCADA's inability to provide counterpart funds; (c) reducing
and consolidating SOCADA's zone of operations by eliminating its activities
on marginal cotton producing areas; (d) maintaining the floor pro  acer
price of cotton at 100 CFAP per kg and introducing a mechanism to ,Ank
producer priaas to world prices above the floor level, while in parallel
reducing input suibsidies paid to farmers; and (e) restructuring SOCADA with
a view to decentralizing operations and preparing its separation in two
entities, one responsible for cotton purchase and marketing, the other for
vasearch and extension services. Since 1987, SOCADA has been operating
under the terms of the adjustment program. The adh4rence to an agreed-upon
yearly operating budget "bar4me", in which the financial obligations of
each party are clearly defined, is being maintained. Strict financial
discipline, coupled with a better outlook for world cotton prices, is
expected to speed-up the restoration of SOCADA's financial equilibrium.
13.       Production and Extension Services.  In the early stages of the
project, cotton production -eached 33,400 tons--a 192 increase above
appraisal estimates. However, this increase was mainly attributable to an
increase in acreage cultivated rather than to the efficiency of extension
services. This was confirmed by early supervision missions which Indicated
that the efficiency of the existing extension service remained poor due to
(a) the lack of work organization at all levels; (b) the large amount of
time extension agents devoted to detailed cotton production data
collection; and (c) the complete lack of interface between extension agents
and counterparto in research and training services. The situation somewhat



improved in 1985 as extension services were root           nd production
targets revised.  Cotton production statisticc             from SOCADA
suggest that cotton yields did not improve muc!           is project--in
spite of an intensification of production activiltil. trom 417 kg/ha in
1982-83, a maximum yield of 572 kg/ha was obtained in 1984-85. However,
yields stagnated around 455 kg/ha during the project period. As for
subsistence crops, production and marginal yield increases could not be
attributed to SOCADA as it concentrated most of its resources on cotton
production, but rather to substantial price increases for the major food
crops during the project period.
14.       Trainng.  At apprais&K, it was widely felt that the poor
performance of SOCADA's extensio:a service wos due mainly to inadequate
tochnital skills of zone chiefs and extension agents. To correct this
situation, an intensive training program was deosigned and made an integral
part of the project. Given their importance for the timely development and
success of the project, some activities of the training component were
financed through a PPF advance. In the early stages, the project provided
financing for three internationally recruited training specialists and six
locally recruited trainlng officers to carry out the training program with
a view to upgrading, over a three year period, the skills of the 81 zone
chiefs. However, the training component did not generate the anticipated
results. First, early Bank supervision missions concluded that the first-
year training program, which concentrated on zone chiefs, did not respond
to their needs or those of the extension service. The training curriculum
was found to be too academic and did not sufficiently address field-related
Issues. In view of this assessment, the Bank recommended a complete
reorientation of the training program tailoring it to the needs of farmers.
15.       Any impact the reoriented training program could have had, was
undermined in 1985/86 when SOCADA's financial crisis forced it to review
the siz- of the training component. As a result, the main training center
at Batangafo was closed, only one of the three expatriate training
specialists was retained and the remaining training sessions were canceled.
16.       Finally, it is fair to say that the training component w&a not
successful in meeting project targeto set out at appraisal.
17.       Research and Seed MultiRlication.  The project inherited the
applied research program which had been successfully initiated by IRCT/IRAT
under bilateral financing. The Research Department created at the onset of
the project was headed by an internationally recruited speiialist. The
research program was to consolidate research findings on cotton and shift
emphasis to food crops. In the early years of the project, applied
research programs on cotton and food crops, and seed multiplication
programs, were carried out satisfactorily. A network of field trials were
established on about 100 farms under the close supervision of the
researchers with cooperation from extension staff. However, in the later
stages of the project, the interface between research programs and
extension became less visible. The theoretical nature of a research
program without significant linkage with farmers needs, coupled with the
shift of emphasis and resources away from research activities eventually
undermined this component.



- 6 -
18.       Feeder Road.  This component wao to maintain and strengthen
8OCADA'e Roads Division, specificaily to rehabilitate 950 km of rural roads
and to carry out an annual upgrading maintenance program on 2,300 km. Even
though this component at first experienced some delays in its
implementation, It became one of the most successful component of the
project as most objectiveo &et at appraisal were met. However, it is
important to note that as SOCADA's financial health weakened, the agency
undertook cost reduction measures which affected its roads brigades. The
aging of road maintenance equipment, coupled with the lack of a sufficient
operating budget since 1988. will most certainly undermine achievements
made under the project.
19.       Animal Traction.  This component aimed at introducing oxen
cultivation in areas vith limited experience in animal traction. To this
end, an animal traction unit was established within SOCADA, and two animal
traction centers were constructed. In addition, a credit fund was
established for the provision to farmers of animls and equipment. In the
early staas; of the project, this component performed satisfactorily as
both animal traction centers became fully operational and the number of
trained oxen in the whole cotton areas consistently increased. However, as
the animal traction program shifted its activities from the centers to the
rural milieu, farmers became more reluctant to subscribe to animal traction
techniques because of two major difficulties: (a) they were not
comfortable sith the new practices, as they had been exposed to only a
limited amount of trials; and (b) they could not secure the financing
required to purchase animals and equipment. Moreover, the animal traction
program was further handicapped when SOCADA decided, in view to reducing
costs, not to deliver animals and equipment to farm sites.
20.       Rural Water Sugolv.  This component aimed at laying the
foundations for a government service, namely the "G4nie Rural" at MAE, to
supply rural water by introducing suitable techniques for constructing
safe, clean wells in the cotton zone.
21.       A preliminary feasibility study was done to find the best
approach to well construction in the proposed area (Ouham, Gribingui
Economique, Ouaka). Implementation on this component was slow at first,
because the Gover ment did not provide counterpart funding on time. This
dolayed BDEAC's--the financier for the component--loan effectiveness which
in turn contributed to delays in the procurement of heavy equipment
(drilling rig). However, once the loan was declared effective and
procurement problems were resolved, implementation proceeded smoothly. By
project end, 134 of the 150 wells planned had been constructed. These
wells are still providing water to rural communities in the cotton area.
22.       Ginning Factories. After SOCADA completed the process of
reducing the number of ginneries from 18 to 5 (Pende, Bossangoa, Guiffa,
Bambari and Alindao) as part of its pre-project financial rehabilitation
program, the project envisaged the reinforcing of the remaining factories
so as to increase their capacity. This component was to provide for the
related improvements that were to include the purchase and installation of
(i) two new diesel-generator groups of 500 KVA for the Pende and Bossangoa
factories; (1i) one new cotton baler for the Bossangoa factoryg and (iii)



three new pneumatic seed cotton discharger loaders for the Pendo, Bossangoa
and Bambari factories.
23.       This component encountered some difficulties during the project
cycle. At the start of the project. procurement of the two 500 IVA
generators and hydraulic presses was delayed cone-derably, *s the financier
for the component (BADEA) took * long time to approve tender documents.
Several efforts were made by both the Bank and SOCADA to bring BADHA to act
on funding requests and approval of tender documents. However, until the
and of 1984, no reply was received from BADEA. This situation put a heavy
burden on SOCADA, as the aging of ginning factorios was reducing their
processing capacity at a time when production was increasing. In PY3,
implementation of this component improved considerably as BADEA financing
becme a little more forthcoming. To further address SOCADA's financial
crisis the number of ginneries was reduced to three (Pende, Bossangoa,
Rembari). These factories, however, continued to benefit from project
support. Their strengthening under the project did generate tangible
benefits in the form of (a) increased processing efficiency; (b) reduction
in processing costsl *nd (c) better grasp of techniques by factory
personnol.
24.       TransDort Maintenance Facilities.  This component of the project
was more successful at meeting project targets. At appraisal it had been
argued that the transport maintenance facilities component coupled with the
feeder roads component, was important for addressing SOCADA's transport
fleet mobility and marketing bottlenecks due to logistical constraints. At
the onset of the project. two-thirds of SOCADA's transport fleet was 10
years old or more and spent a considerable amount of time under
maintenance. The transport maintenance facilities at Bossangoa and Bambari
were deficient in sheltered space, and in maintenance and repair equipment.
Under the project, these facilities were improved and maintenance and
repair equipment were purchased. These achievements, coupled with the
renewal of most of SOCADA's transport fleet in 1984-85, greatly increased
the mobility of marketing teams in the cotton area and reduced SOCADA's
maintenance and operating costs. However, one important facet of this
component namely, the training of mechanics, remained weak. In fact, not a
single national staff assigned to this component received training during
the project duration.  In retrospect, greater effo.cs should have been made
to train staff to bring them up to date on the latest technological and
mechanical improvements.
25.       Monitoring and Evaluation. At appraisal, it was envisaged that
a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would be established within
SOCADA, under the direct administrative and technical responsibility of its
General Director. Tho unit was to give project management, the Government
and the co-financiers impact information from the field to assess progress
towards project objectives and to make constructive modifications (as
needed) during project implementation. Based on data collected by SOCADA's
other units (mainly extension and applied research services) and through
special surveys and studies as appropriate, the unit was to (a) measure and
evaluate the project's physical progress and effectiveness; (b) examine
topics such as farmers' reactions to proposed technical packages and the
effectiveness of support services; and (c) collect and maintain detailed



documentary data on the cotton zone's development constraints and
potential.
26.       The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit became operational in January
1984. Its lultial work program consisted in undertaking an overly
aabitious baseline survey (envisaged in the SAR) which bocame time
consuming and did not bring the anticipated results. Consequently,
supervision missions recommended that the Unit undertake smaller, more
manageable studies focussing more on the performance of the extension
system. After a laborious start, the Unit did manage t., provide a limited
number of reports on the project's impact on the cotton zone. When SOCADA
enterod its financial crisis phase, the unit was suppressed with a view to
achieving additional cost savings.
27.       Economic and Financial Impact.  The financial performance of
SOCADA, the main project implementing agency, was undermined by (a) highly
centralized operations; (b) high operating costs; and (c) fluctuations in
the price of cotton. After registering a net income of 200 million CPAF in
FY83/84, SOCADA incurred losses ranging form 1 billion CPAF ($2.5 million)
in FY84/85 to 6 billion CPAP in FY85/86. The adjustment program undertaken
with a view to restoring SOCADA's financial health has led to some
Improvements. Even though SOCADA's financial performance has been hampered
by the factors mentioned above, it is important to note that its obligation
to undertake rural oevelopment activities in the cotton zone-even when
financed with delays by Government-has somewhat undermined its ability to
restore its financial health. However, without some improvement in world
cotton prices it is unlikely that SOCADA will generate meaningful financial
surpluses.
28.       Like the financial profitability of SOCADA, the economic
performance of the project was weak. With adjustment measures fully in
place, it is estimated that over the longer term, the economic viability of
cotton production in the cotton area should be satisfactory, and
considerably better than what the present figures suggest. Moreover, the
medium and longer term (1995) price projections for cotton indicate some
recovery, which combined with sound financial management, would lead to
increased revenues from cotton exports.
29.       Under SAR assumptions (Part III, 6B) the project was found to be
profitable with a net present value of CPAP 1,991 million (US$5.6 million)
and an ERR of 22 percent. The analysis included the full costs of the
production oriented components which accounted for 88 percent of total base
costs.
30.       Post completion aisessment of project impact reveals that
incremental seed cotton production surpassed appraisal estimates in PY1 and
PY2 but fell short of appraisal estimates in subsequent project years. The
value of future incremental cotton production for the remaining life of the
project is projected to be CFAF 865 million (Annex 1 page 2).



31.       Taking into account the actual project performance from 1983/84
to 1988/89 and projectod economic prices, the revised ERR would be about 3
percent over a 20-year project life.
0. PROJECT USTAINABILITY
32.       Throughout the project, the financial viability of SOCADA wva
threatened due to (a) highly centralized and high-cost operations; (b)
fluctuations in the prico of cotton; and (c) untimely provisions of
Government funds. Although this was recognized early in project
preparation and stressed during project supervision, it romained a problem
at completion. Some recent progress has boon made In the rehabilitation of
SOCADA's weak financial poeition under the auspices of the Bank-financed
Cotton Sector Adjustment Credit. However, the sustainability of many
project activities remains a question mark, as sufficient counterpart
funding becomes more and more unlikely. Components which performed
satisfactorily during the project, namely the rural water supply program,
the feeder roads program, and the ginning and maintenance facilities have
sizeable recurrent expenditures implications and may be undermined by the
prevailing financial difficulties of SOCADA and the Government.
H   THE BANK'S PERFORMANCE
33.       The Bank performed well during project preparation and
appraisal, and played a leading role in establishing good coordination
among cofinanciers and government institutions involved in the project.
However, it should be noted that, even though project design was consistent
with the Bank's policy for rural development projects at that time, the
Bank had somewhat overestimated price projections for the cotton sector.
Understandably, it would have been difficult to predict exactly the
collapse of world cotton prices. Nevertheless, the fall of world cotton
prices did impact upon all phases of the project. While it would have been
counter productive not to emphasize on cotton related activities, in
retrospect the project's emphasis was excessively tipped against other
crops. This was further exacerbated during the cotton crisis as all
supervision efforts were directed toward the financial rehabilitation of
SOCADA.
34.       In retrospect, the project design did devote in the early stage
enough resources to ensure the success of rural development activities.
However, most of these activities were later redimensioned to respond to
SOCADA's financial difficulties. By PY3, supervision missions started to
ease on the monitoring of technical aspects and paid little or no attention
to output targets established in the SAR. Thus, it is impossible to
determine from supervision mission reports key data on research and
extension activities and the quantity and/or yield. of cassava, groundnuts,
maize, and sorghum produced in the area. Finally, the follow-up and
management of the project was disrupted by several staff changes, most of
which stemmed from the Bank 1987 reorganization.



- 10 -
1 * THE BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
35.       In the early stag8e of the project, the Government's
undorstanding of project objectives was not always in accordance %,lth
objectives envisaged in the SAR. In particular, Government's efforts for
the rehabilitation of cotton production con -atrated on the expansion o_
the area under cultivation rather than through -iold improvements. In
addition, its decision to fully subsidize inputs for the 1983/84 campaign,
against conditions agreed upon at negotiations, undermined in the early
stages SOCADA's financial rehabilitation program. Although implementation
of project activities was affected by exogenous factors, the lack of
continuity in management brought about by frequent changoe in key personnel
at SOCADA greatly undermined achievements. Finally, it is lmportant to
note that the Government made some efforts to undertake difficult
reforms/adjustment measures in view of the financial crials. Without its
comitment on that front, the project, and more importantly the cotton
sector, would have been in a much worse position.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
36.       The strength of the relationship between the Bank and the
Borrower with respect to this project was established through (a) regular
contacts during supervision missions; and (b) candid and constructive
dialogue on key project issues throughout the project period.
37.       Close relationship was maintained between the Bank and other
cofinanciers throughout the project. During the project period, several
joint missions were undertaken and donor meetings were held at various
times to address the financial crisis faced by the cotton industry.
38.       In the most part, the Government's relationship with other
cofinanciers has been good. A noteworthy exception was the difficult
dialogue with BADEA in the project early .tages that resulted in serious
disbursement delays from the proceeds of their loan.
K. CONSULTANT SERVICES
39.       At &ippraisal, it was determined that the lack of experienced
local staff was a major constraint to the proper implementation of
agricultural development programs in the CAR. It was agreed with the
Government that the critical shortage of technical and middle-management
personnel would be alleviated in the short-term by technical assistance.
To this end all key project positions were staffed with 35 internationally
recruited specialists for periods of up to four years. It was understood
that one of the major obligations of the resident expatriate staff was to
provide the in-service training of their Central African deputies to
facilitate an eventual transfer of responsibility.
40.       The large quantity of expatriate staff (35 in PYI) did not
generate the results anticipated at appraisal. The fact that many were
holding regional posts, in a rural milieu they had difficulty to grasp,
contributed to their inability to become effective. Their predominance at
key posts and little participation of local staff in the planning process



- 11 -
contributed to a tense and uncooperative working climate during all phases
of projoet Implementation. Before the project's end, the numb-- of
expatriate staff was considerably reduced as a cost-cutting measure. In
1990, only four expatriate staff remained at SOCADA.
L. PILOECT DIINTATION ANDDATA
41.       Lieopt for schedule 4 which described the project area in
unusual details and was eventually ignre-d with the tacit approval of the
Bank,the Credit Agreement was wvll formulated with sound covenants which
were on the whole largely reapectad by the Borrower, ad, nwhen not, gSav
IDA the required leverage to resolve the issues.
42.       The appraisal report and the corresponding working paper were
very comprehensive. Translated into french, they did provide a useful
framework for both the Bank and the Borrower during project implementation.
43.       Most of the data required for the preparation of the PCR were
avallable from project documents located in the division or in the Africa
Information Center. It is important to note 'iowever, that great difficulty
was encountered auring the preparation of the PCR as no meaningful database
was available from supervision reports which tended to focus on the
financial health of SOCADA. In addition, the closing of the project
monitoring and evaluation unit prevented, in the later stages of the
project. the collection of accurate crop and physical data. Finally.
despite several requasts. Government did not provide its contribution to
the PCR.
M. LESSONS LEARNED
44.       The project was conceived 10 years ago and the lessons that can
be drawn from its implementation have since been learned from similar Bank
projects in Africa. Its design was consistent with the Bank's policy for
rural development projects at that time, though it did not pay enough
attention to overall institution building and it overestimated the project
area's long-term cotton potential. The project was destined, therefore, to
have the merits and weaknesses attached to its own design as well as those
attached to a classical integrated rural development project.
45.       It is now well established that the success of this project was
undermined by a number of exogenous events which could not have been
predicted. Uneven rainfall, the collapse of world cotton prices. the wide
wings of the CFAF, and mountiag financial difficulties experienced by the
Government undermined proper project implementation and the sustainability
of its achievements.
46.       The project experience clearly highlights the fact that even
though it was designed to be a rural development project, albeit with
cotton as the most important crop, it became a cotton project with a
marginal impact on most other food crops in the project area. The SAR
overestimated SOCADA's ability to fully undertake development activities.
During the project, most research, extension, training (albeit limited) and
production efforts were centered on cotton.



- 12 -
47.       On the financial side, the SAR was somewhat optimistic about the
outlook of word cotton prices. As cotton prices declined in 1985, SOCADA
continued to accumulate losses some of which can be attributed to high
administrativo and operating costs-especially the cost of technical
assistance--and its obligation to take on costly rural development
activities.
48.       The soundness of concentrating all interventions in one
institution that could effectively handle extension, credit, supply of
inputs, marketing of cotton, training and research, and at the same time,
lplment and supervise development activities, Is subject to debate. In
retrospect, project results suggest that the SAR was too optimistic about
the capacity of SOCADA to properly fulfill its mandate. Project experience
also highlights the fact that SOCADA instead focussed on activities where
its primary interest was present, namely the cotton sector. Institutions
at the national level, namely the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
(MAE) now called the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) *should have been
strengthened so as to increase their operational and planning capacity for
the overall development of the agricultural sector.



- 13 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPHDENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
PART IIs PROJECT REIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
(Not received)



- 15 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1376-CA)
PART IIIs STATIS'DICAL INFORKATION
1. ELIATER BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan Title     s   CAR - Cotton Sector Adjustment Program (Credit
1836 - CAR).
Purpose        s   Support Government's adjustment program for the
cotton sector which aims at reducing the
inefficiencies of the cotton industry and paving
the way for a broader based agricultural
development strategy in the cotton area.
Year of
Approval       s   1987
Status         I   Complete Loan closed on 12/31/89
2. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date           Date           Date
Item                      Planned        Revised        Actual
Identification                  3/80            na             3/80
Preparation                    12/81            na            12/81
Appraisal Mission               6/82            na             6/82
Loan/Credit Negotiations        2/83            na             4/83
Board Approval                  4/83            na             5/83
Loan/Crodit Signature           6/83            na             6/83
Loon/Credit Effectiveneas       1/84            na             1/84
Credit Closing                  3/88            na             9/89
Loon/Credit Completion          9/87            na             9/89



- 16 -
3.    =11 RISBURSEM
Cumul1ati.ve I.time~d and Actual ftebwurtuta
Appraisal Rltiatee                                  2.1      4.6      7.2     9.2      10.4             -
Actual                                      -       1.8      4.3      7.5     9.8      10.3    10.5    10.7
Actual a* 2 of Zetietee                     -        86       93      104     107       99      -       -
Date of Jloal Disbursements 2/2/90
Comentes Out of the Loan amount of 8DR 9,700,000 SDR 9,682,952 ver  disbursed. The reaining balane
of 8DR 13,047.50 hat been canceled. The final US$ disbursement are hlther than predicted at
*ppraisal because of the appreciation of the SDR.



- 17 -
4.  Project  nIglentation
Appralial
1ndlcator           lSlUlat l t P}MO               Actual x_XPY)                   aBUk
60,900                        25,578                - As project ore"
(yam Ubit}                                                                                vaw  reduced the
nsar of  alu 
unite declind.
CIR                                -                             601                 - Intended to be
(1armere' Group)                                                                           m_i  vehicle for
project mpact.
Now responsible
for marketing
close to 702 of
cotton production.
Rural V t U Suc1X
Now Wells150                                                        134                  Wells atifl
provding water to
rural oOaitiel
In the cotton
ar".
Anga"                                  950                            950                  One of the
Mo. Robab.                                                                                 project'e most
aucceeful
coponent.
Km. Maintained                        2300                           2300                  Local  arnere are
playing a key role
in the annual
malatenc
progrm.
AnLlTrctio
Oman purchased-by
fatmera                                350                            139                  Aimed at
introducing oxen
cultivation In
are"a with limited
experienco in
animal traction.
Difficulties in
cecuriag financing
have reduced
farmer demand for
animal traction
equipment.



- 18 -
5. PROJnCT COSTS AND FINANCING
A.    Ymo]ct Pou  (in $000)
AnPrIsal Eautat                    Actu l
CMonent                               Locsl   FIraun    Doal    Lgcal                   1918 To1t
A. Project Managment Unit                     190.9    258.5    449.3                 -         759.6
D. .roduction & Ixtenmiun Servico          3,267.7   3,064.9  6,332.5                -       6,742.3
C.  Applied Researcb                        1,030.3    92E..9  1,957.1      -         -       3,605.4
D. Seed Production Unit                       420.6    28;.7      708.3     ---               1,076.6
L. Training                                   635.3    732.8   1,368.1                -       1,698.6
F.  Feeder Roads Unit                       1,985.5  2,452.6   4,438.0      -         -       6,974.6
0. Monltoring and Evaluation Unit             504.0    295.1    799.1        -        -         974.4
U. Animl Traction                             189.4    183.8    373.2       --        -         919.7
I.  Village Water Supply                      770.4    687.9   1,458.4      -         -       1,668.0
J. Ginning Factories and
Maintenanco Workshops                    168.7    922.8   1,094.5      -         -       1,050.0
R. Supply of Inputs                           515.3  1.790.8  2.306.1       -         -      16.425.9
TOTAL RASE COSTS                        9,681.0  11,603.8  21,284.8     -         -         -
Contingencies                          5.5326.9  3.048.1  8.375.1       -         -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    15,007.9  14,651.9  29,659.8
Non-Incremontal
- Salaries & Operating Costs            5,015.0    925.2  5,940.2       -                   -
-  Inputs                               3,220.0  8,070.0  11,390.0      -         -         -
Financial Rehabilitation
of SOCADA                             4.200.0    -        4,200.0     -         -         -
TOTAL COSTS                                27,542.9  23,647.1  51,190.0                      40,920.0
Note: In the later part of the project, investments were curtailed and the credit.
with the approval of donors, was used to fund the purchase of non-incremental
inputs in order to alleviate the financial difficulties of SOCADA.
B.     Financing Plan   ($'000)
ADpraisal Estimates               Revised                   Actual
IDA                                     10,400.0                                             10,400.0
CCCE                                     8,500.0                        4,200                 4,200.0
FED                                      5,800.0                             -                5,545.0
PAC                                      3,900.0                                              3,900.0
BDEAC                                       ----                        2.500                 2,213.0
BADEA                                    3,400.0                        1,500                 1,050.0
GOVERNMENT                               6,440.0                            --                4,733.0
SOCADA                                   7,000.0                                              5,145.0
FARMERS                                  5,750.0                        -39--50
TOTAL                         51,190.0                                             41,142.0



- 19 -
6.   set Rsult*
A. RAZeft lLnel$t
Vitbout      Appraisl          Actual    Actual/
Indicators                 Project          PY4              FT7         PY4
*   fYnU  rL u              57,500         60,900         2S,578        42
OuQu  (T)
GTid cotton                 25,000         32,000         30,000        94
maize                        2,600          3,200          2,774        87
Sorghum                      4,400          5,100          4,679        92
Groundnuts                   14,400        21,700         17,320        80
Camp.                          300            320            306        96
AIM (ha)
good cotton                 76,500         74,300         45,S23        61
S&Ls*                       3,000          3,200          3,200       100
Sorghum                      6,000          6,400          6,400       100
Groundnuts                  24.000         25,600         25.600       100
Covpeae                      1,500          1,600          1,600       100
Seed cotton                    325            430            659       153
maize                          800          1.000            866        87
Sorghum                        700            796            731        92
Groundnut.                      450           847            676        80
Cowpeae                         -             200            192        96
xotes   Figures concern only the projoct area which de facto became the cotton *one In the
later stages of the project. rood crop. data are estkmtes. The dismantling of the
projectOs M1Z unlt In 1986 hampered the collection of accurate physical data.



- 20 -
B. Economic ImDact
Appraisal                        Actual
Estimate                  at Final Dovelo=ment
zconomio~
atg of ei turp                       222                              32
Underlying
1. Angrsl
In calculating th. economic rate of return, only the project's directly
quantifiable incremental bensfits have been taken into account. The
analysis included the full c'ets of productiin-oriented 4o.ponents which
accounted for 88 percent of the total base costs. Conrstant 1982 prices
were used. Project assumed to be maintained at PY4 .evels from PY5
onwards. Project life van estimated at 20 years. An exchange rate of
ClAP 355 was used throughout. Incremental family labor was valued at
CPA? I0O per man-day, which was estimated to be the opportunity cost of
farm labor.
2. Final Develotment
Cost stream Includes actual investment and operating costs aver the
period 1983-1989 and estimated operatiAg sxpenditures for the remaining
of the life of the project. Benefit stream calculated holding output
constant at 1989 levels. Output from 19$9 onwards was valued using
estimated economic farmgate prices for food crops. and Bank forecasts
for cotton prices. Incremental family l1 bor Was valued at ClAP 300 per
man-day. Production data for food crops sre estimates. Cotton
production data ar^ SOCADA's figures.
Commenta
The sharp drop in world cotton prices seriously vt -ermined SOCADA's ability to
become fully operational in the field. Thus, targezs set out at appraisal on
the basis of a fully effective extension service vere not met. The resulting
production shortfalls for both cotton and foodcrops is the main reason for the
low internal rate of return (3 percent). It is important to note that even
though rood crop prices increased significantly, during the project period.
it did not translate into meaningful gains in production. It should also be
noted that no attempt has was made to quantify additional social benefits
generated through the development of infrastructures (roads, rural water
supply). Had these benefits had been taken into account. the project ERR
would have been slightly higher.



- 21 -
C. Studies
Defined at                                     ImOact of Study
Studig               A2raal                  Status
Baseline survey        To serve as a           Completed               Became time
of cotton zone         basis for (a)                                   consuming and
assessing                                      except for some
project impact;                                quantitative
(b) identifying                                data, did not
farmers' needs;                                provide
and (c)                                        meaningful
evaluating the                                 results.
effectiveness of
support
services.
Preparation of a       To be undertaken        Reoriented              The crisis
follow-up              in PY3.                                         situation faced
project.                                                               by SOCADA
undermined its
ability to
undertake a
follow-up
project.
Instead, the
study was
refocussed to
define the main
orientations of
an adjustment
program.



- 22 -
7.  Status of Covenant.
Statue of Comi,liance
8ection/Covenant J'/
3.01  Borrower to carry out Port H         Satisfactory overall despite early
of the Project through the           delay.
G6nie Rural division of MAE
with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate well drilling
and equipping practice.
Borrower to provide the funds.
facilities, services and other
resources required for the
purpose.
3.02  Borrower to provide the funds.       There were numerous instances of
facilities, services and other       Government interference in the
resources, necessary or              management of SOCADA.
appropriate to enable SOCADA
to perform such obligations.
and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Borrower to establish and            Satisfactory though with some
maintain a revolving account         delays.
at a local commercial bank on
term and conditions
satisfactory to the
Association and shall, after
the initial deposit of CPA!
120 million, replenish this
account as and when required
to ensure that on the first
day of each calendar quarter
during Project execution, not
lee than the total
aforementioned amount is
available therein to finance
the estimated cost of working
capital for the project in the
following calendar quarter.
J/ Only these covenants whose compliance was not satisfactory are covered.



- 23 -
3.05  Borrower to provide, promptly        The Bank agreed that this covenant
as needod, the funds and other       was not realistic and the project
resources to maintain SOCADA's       area was eventually extended to the
support services outside the         entire SOCADA area.
Project area at their 1983
levl.
3.06  Borrower to, In a manner *nd         Producer prices were progreseively
in accordance with a timetable       increased till 1985/86 when world
acceptable to the association        prices dropped.  Since then producer
progressively increase               price. were maintained at the same
producer price. for seed             level (100 CFA/kg).
cotton and gradually reduce          Subsidies were eventually eliminated
subsidies for seasonal cotton        under the adjustment program except
growing inputs,                      for pesticides for which a subsidy
of 251 was maintained of
externalities.
3.07  Borrower to maintain records         Not done. Data on cost side are
and procedures adequate to           somewhat adequate.  Data on
record and monitor the               quantifiable benefits are non-
progress of Part H of the            existent at the Borrower's level.
Project (including cost and
benefits to be derived from
it).
Borrower to enable the               Done in large part.  However, crisis
Association's representatives        situation during project pariod
to visit the facilities and          prevented frequent field visits.
construction sites included in
the Project and to examine any
relevant records and
documents.
Borrower to furnish to the           Not done.
Association at regular
intervals all such information
as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning
Part H of the Project. its
cost and, where appropriate.
the benefits to be derived
from it.



S.  Niion Coto
no. of            NUn-dys                  Specileizations               Perf.                           T"p   of
Nirssln                     9LtPersons                              in the fioldt         fterflent d  11                 at$ne                  i rsdt  Prob4~  J/
tdantifecation              3/00                                                                                                                          ......
PrIpration                 12/81                  --                    -                        -
Appraisal                   6/82                   5                   155                  a*bede                          --               -- d-
Supervision  1             10/83                   1                    12                 c                                2                 1           P  F
Supervision  2              6/84                   4                    U                  *  b c                           2                 1           P. F
Supervision  3             10/84                  4                     U                  c  d  f g                        2                 2           P  F, N
Supervision  4              3/85                   3                    32                   , d  f                         2                 1           P  O
Supervision  5             11/85                  4                     32                 c, d                             3                 2           F, N
Supervision  6              3/86                   5                    60                 c  d                             3                 2           F  0
Supervision  7              6/86                   7                    49                 b, c  d                          3                 1           F. 0
Supervision  8              2/87                  3                    49                  a, d                             3                 3           F, 0
Supervision  9             10/88                   1                     7                 d                               n.a.             n.s.          F
Supervision  10             2/89                   1                    15                 d, a                            n.c              n.s.          F
Supervision  11             2/90                  3                     29                 d, f                             3                 1           F, 0
Co ptetion                  2/90                   1                     7                 b                                2                 1           F. 0
Jl     a a agriculturalist;  b  a agricultural  economist;  c * finwncial  *arlyst; d a economist;  e:rurcl works engineer;  f  a agronomist;  g *onitoririn
id Evaluation  Specielist
3/       a problem-fre   or minor probltm;  2 * moderate problems;  3 * m_jor problems.
S,f     a improving;  2 a stationary;  3 - deteriorating
4/      F * Financial;  N *    _anaemt;  P * Political;  0 * other
I
note:   Supervision  missions 8-10 concerned m_inly the cotton Adjustment  operation  but some staff-weeks  were charged  to the Cotton Are Rurat
Developu nt Project.
Performsne  tating  and Trends hbae not been recorded urder these missions  as supervisik   reports were drafted m_inly for the adjustment
operation not the cotton project that was being phased-out.



A.      Use of qu* kioures
1. Stafffrost (NhNW-eeks)
FY                  81        82        3          84         85          86         87         BB          89         90          jg32L
Prepmrctian                                  20.6       11.1        -                                                                                            31.7
Appraisal       I                                       14.3      35.3          --         --         --          --         --                                  49.6
fegotiations                                    --        --       6.5               --   --                                 --                                   6.5
Sup wvislon                                     --        --       0.2       27.0       32.2        13.2       11.6         1.7        5.5        4.0            ff.2
PCa                                             _         _--                              _          --          -_
20.6      25.4      42.0       27.0        32.2       13.2        11.4        1.7        S.5        10.8          189.8



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Costs *nd Benefits
(Constant 1982, CFAF *illion)
SAR Estistes
Py1      PY2      P73      PY4       P15      PY6      P77  P76-20
A. ECONoMIC COSTS
Project  _anagement Unit                        33.9     30.2     65.1     30.2
Production and Extension Services              668.6    479.4    553.7   546.3   326.5    278.7   234.7   234.7
Applied Research                               200.8    164.3    165.4    164.3    164.3   150.0   150.0   150.0
Seed luitiplication Unit                        77.4     69.2     52.7     52.0      52.0     51.3     51.3     51.3
Training                                       217.6    133.3     91.6    43.2    43.2    39.3    39.3          39.3
Feeder Roads Unit                              414.C    281.7   301.6    184.3    150.7   147.0   147.0    147.0
Monitoring *nd Evaluation Unit                 120.2     61.3     66.5      35.7     35.7    35.4    35.4    35.4
Anissl Traction                                 26.1     54.8     28.7      22.9     22.9     12.8    12.8      12.8
Supply of Inputs                               5S63.9    88.9     69.9     95.9    95.9    92.7    92.7         92.7
Total Basetine Costs                   2322.5   i363.1   1395.2   1174.8   891.2   807.2   763.2   763.2
Plus Physicat Conting  ncies             157.9     72.2     68.4     54.0     49.0      44.7    42.2      42.2
Less Taxe                               126.5    130.6    150.8    154.8    118.5      55.6      52.5     52.5                                                -a
Plus Inernmtel Labor                    177.2    202.9    248.9   278.8    278.8    278.8    278.8   278.8
Total Economic Costs                   2531.1   1507.6   1561.7   1352.8   1100.5   1075.1   1031.7   1031.7
S.  ECOOrMIC BENEFITS.
Cotton (incremental Production) (t)             3106     5165     7645     9010     9010      9010     9010     9010
Economic form ata Prife                        120.8      126    128.3    129.6    129.6    129.6    129.6    129.6
Benefits                                375.2    650.8    960.9   1167.7   1167.7   1167.7   1167.7   1167.7
Mnicc (Incremntal Predwction) (t)               2680     2880     2880     2880     2880      2860     2880     280O
Bnefits (7SCAF/kg)                       216       216      216      216      216      216       216      216
Groundauts (Incremental Production) Ct)         1580     3230     4870     7300     7300      7300     7300     7300
BenefIts CSOCFAF/kg)                       79    161.5    243.5       365      365      365      365       365
Naize (Incremental Production) (t!               209      301      436      583      583       583      583      583
_nf Its (4SCFAF/k4)                       9.4      13.5     19.6     26.2     26.2     26.2     26.2      26.2
SorghuaMlNlet (Incrmental Productfon) (t)       322       466      547      696      696      696       696      696
Benefits (4SCFAF/kg)                     14.5      21.0    24.6      31.4     31.4     31.4     31.4      31.4
Sesame  (Increoental Prodiction) (t)             69       113      137      196      196       196      196      196
Benefits (9OCVAFIkg)                      6.6      10.7     13.0     18.6     18.6     18.6      18.6     18.6                                           d 
Paddr (Incr emntat Prodxctien) (t)               80       157      250      375      375      375      375       375                                         OQ 0
Benefits (9OCfAF/kg)                      7.2      14.1     22.5    33.8      33.8     33.8     33.8     33.8
Ao.wwe stIncremntat Production) (t)              20        20       20       2r       20       20        20       20                                         0
Benetfts (98CfaA/kg)                      t.J       1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8                                         0
Total Economic Benefits                 709.7   1069.5   1521.9   1860.5   1860.5   1860.5   1860.5   1860.5                                           N
Not Econo i ie*nfIts                 -1621.4  -418.13 -39.7965  507.711  760.011  M5.411  826.811  626.811
El*         22.23X



CENTRAL AFRiCAN REPUELIC
INTECRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Costs and Benefits
Post-Ccpletion Estimates
(CFAF million)
P11      PYZ      P3       P4      PY5      PY6      P7   P18-20
A. ECrNfhIC COSTS
Project Manwapemnt Unit                       43.0    78.2    97.7    86.2
Production and Extension Services            528.4   630.0   426.9   446.4   500.7   300.4   255.3   255.3
Applied R m  rch                             249.9   263.7   269.7   228.0   235.3   235.3   150.0   150.0
Seed Nultiplication Unit                      57.8   103.7   108.3    47.4    62.5    51.3    51.3    51.3
Training                                     142.8   165.3   177.5   114.9    65.0    39.3    39.3    39.3
Feeder Roods Unit                            517.5   671.5   709.2   367.6   400.2   147.0   147.0   147.0
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                92.2   131.8    96.3    49.7    21.4    21.4    35.4    35.4
Animal Traction                               37.6    104.1    60.1    45.2    35.2    12.8    12.8    12.8
Saiply of Inputs                             129.8   133.4    68.9    77.9    24.9    24.9    24.9    24.9
Total Baseline Costs                  1799.0  2281.7  2014.6  1463.3  1345.2   832.4   716.0   716.0
Plus Physical Contingencies            125.9   159.7   141.0   102.4    94.0    58.2    42.2    42.2
Less Taxes                             126.5   130.6   150.8   154.8   118.5    55.6    52.5    52.5
Plus Incremental Laor                  177.2   202.9   248.9   278.8   348.5   348.5   348.5   348.5
Total Economic Costs                  1975.6  2513.7  2253.7  1689.7  1669.2  1183.5  1054.2  1054.2                                                 CD
B. ECONOMIC SEEFITS
Cotton (Incremental Production) (t)           8405   20516    10405    -234   -5842    5000    5000    5000
Economic Farwgate Price                      120.8      126    128.3   129.6       173      173      173      173
Benefits                              1015.3  2585.0  1335.0   -30.3  -1010.7   865.0   865.0   865.0
Manioc (Incree ntl Production) (t)           1152     1152     1152    1152    1152    1152    1152    1152
Benefits (125CFAF/kI)                    144      144      144      144      144      144      144     1"
Cronidhuts (Incr_mental Production) (t)        632     1292     1948    2920    2920    2920    2920    2920
Benefits (IOOCFAF/kg)                   63.2   129.2   194.8   292.0   292.0   292.0   292.0   292.0
maize (Incee tntal Production) Ct)              83      120      174      174      174      174      174      174
enefits (95CFAF/ko)                      7.9    11.4    16.5    16.5    16.5    16.5    16.5    16.5
Sorghul ittlet (Incremental Production) (t)    128      186      218      279      279      279      279     279
Benefits (95CFAF/tg)                    12.2    17.7    20.7    26.5    26.5    26.5    26.5    26.5
Sesme (Incre_ntal Production) (t)               28       45       54       78       78       78       78      78
Benefits (135CFAF/ks)                    3.8      6.1      7.3    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5
Paddy (Incremental Production) (t)              32       62      100      150      150      150      1SC      150
Benefits (130CFAF/kg)                    4.2      8.1     13.0    19.5    19.5    19.5    19.5    19.5                                      Q n
Cowpem  (Irncremental Production) (t)            8        8        8        8        8        8        8       8                                      X
Benefits (10OCFAF/kg)                    0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.e      0.8                                  |)
I                                                                                                                                    0'
Total Economic  enefIts               1251.3  2902.2  1732.1   479.5  -500.8  1374.9  1374,9  1374.9
Met Econom Ic 8ef fits               724.291  388.521 -521.608 -1210.16 -2170.00  191.365  320.665 320.665
ERR         2.95%



Annex 2
Page 1 of 1
TABLE 1
Seed Cotton Production. CAR: 1982 - 1990
Year                     Surface                   Production              Yield
(in ha)                    (tons)                (Kg/ha)
1982/83                  68,455                    28,603                  417
1983/84 (PYl)            72,007                    33,405                  464
1984/85 (PY2)            79,563                    45,516                  572
1985/86 (PY3)            83,105                    35,405                  426
1986/87 (PY4)            65,678                    24,766                  377
1987/88 (PYS)            40,364                    19,158                  475
1988/89 (PY6)            53,017                    30,000                  528
1989/90w (PY7)           45,523                    30,000                  659
* Estimated
Source: SOCADA.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                              18                                                               20
REPUBLIQUE CENrk_FRlCAlNE 
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                          oSh                                                               NDL
PAUIfr DE 0EVROPPEMENr PURA IEN ZONE COrONNIERE                                                                                                                                         NDELL 
RnMov             .                                                                                  BAMINGUI BANGORAN
HAUTE KC
1>                                                                                                                             .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aigui
_o-                                                                   RECONOMIQUE
: Gs / '\ ,t~Bocarongo r  -OUHAM/  |'
sT    I     OIJHAM/\t     \                   x     C                                                         KAGA BANDORO
9  <      j    3 E      NPEDE                                              \                                                                    _<                 
Raolo ala
K- <  E \   J  ,.-/'      2    hGu   <  J   g   OU A K A
NANA-MAMBERE                                                                                                                                                             90 NgoIn
Int-siv  Assstance Zone
166               \_/-         -\        -        2-nes d'Arc,oms 1nevss ,'_
Applied Research ond Seed Multipliction-
\ _    .Rehnche dZAcompogscertenr
C    A D  r-41. ~~~~~~~~~~M/rp/ctsode Ssreoszes.                                                                                                                                                   igt,
j  C  H  A  D         ,S         1     5 U D A N               A        Ginoeries                 Training Center                                                                                       Alie       Mn o
S                       ~~~~~~~~Usi,rs d'J6gionage      Centre gde Formaotion
. .....                                                       Pni-rn  Roads                                      J=go
Rossres Piiassoles
S-condasy RoasI                                                                                                         BASSE   OTTO
-    Ro0tes Secosnda,i'es
D             T                                            .                            fAeRises                                                 Z       A       I       R      E                  If
Z   ~~~~~~~~~~~                              Xf/nowes
D ./ AL     AfRICAN    REPUBLIC                <           _           Socado's Region Limits                                       r nmsnnose
AR:f:~~~~~~~~A~~~                          li~~~~~a~d Rgio-r isocda                                     h noso nn nsn
EREA                                                        Regional' Almd Ro gm. al Centers       .....au              ,Nn5nnnndonnu5itoBAYE
.nes RWgio,aux ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~oa~nnih55COr
COhiiho Rngonss,0BANGUI                       ~       0rno
Bonoei~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~Department Limits                                                       ~                         ~d-OOOniiOn
zimiros ales Ditotpasiseh                                    isw,  i oclm  o
/,,as.n  _nte,no Giorol  Bouridorien                                                                0              50             IT0            15C
I     ternationa  Rao,ads Z   A   I   R E,8f20
PEOPLE5           ~~~Z   A   I  R   E                                                                       .re
OPEOfL



