Document of
The World Bank                                 FILE
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3566-CA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 9.7 MILLION
TO THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =   CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00           =   CFAF 355 1/
CFAF 1 million        US$2,820
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACADOP   =  Agence Centrafricaine pour le Developpement de l'Ouham Pende/
Central African Agency for the Development of the Ouham Pende
Province
ANEC     =  Association National des Eleveurs Centrafricans/National
Association of Central African Livestock Owners
BADEA    =  Banque Arabe de D6veloppement Economique en Afrique/
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
CAADE    =  Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat/
Autonomous Fund for the Amortization of National Debts
CCCE     =  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique/Central Fund for
Economic Cooperation (France)
CFDT     =  Compagnie Frangaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles/
French Company for the Development of Textile Fibers
FAC      =  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation/Fund for Aid and Cooperation
(France)
FED      =  Fonds Europeen de Developpement/European Development Fund
(European Economic Community)
IRCT     =  Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et les Fibres Textiles/
Research Institute for Cotton and Textile Fibers
MAE      =  Ministbre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage/Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock
SOCADA   =  Societe Centrafricaine de D&veloppement Agricole/
Central African Agricultural Development Agency
FISCAL YEAR
Government:    January 1 - December 31
SOCADA:        November 1 - October 31
1/  The CFA Franc (CFAF) is tied to the French Franc (FF) at the ratio of FF 1
to CFAF 50. The French Franc is presently floating.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Central African Republic
Beneficiary:         SOCADA (Central African Agricultural Development Agency)
Amount:               SDR 9.7 million (US$10.4 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms
Cofinanciers:        France (FAC and CCCE), European Development Fund (FED),
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (BADEA).
Project Objectives:  (a) Improve the standard of living of the rural popula-
tion in the CAR's cotton zone, (b) rehabilitate
production of cotton, (c) increase production of food
crops, and (d) assist SOCADA, the CAR's major rural-
development institution, to become a more effective and
financially sound development agency.
Project               (a) Strengthening of the agricultural extension service
Description:        through staff training and provision of technical assist-
ance and logistical support; (b) provision of production
inputs (fertilizer, insecticides) and agricultural
implements; (c) support for applied research and seed
multiplication programs; (d) promotion of animal traction
through the establishment of training centers and
provision of credit to farmers to purchase oxen and ox-
drawn equipment; (e) rehabilitation of 950 km and
periodic maintenance of 2,300 km of feeder roads;
(f) construction of about 150 village water wells;
(g) improvement of the country's five cotton ginneries;
(h) provision of workshops and equipment to improve the
maintenance capacity for SOCADA's agricultural transport
fleet; and (i) establishment of a project monitoring and
evaluation system.
The above-described project will be implemented by
SOCADA, the project beneficiary. In addition to the new
activities described above, SOCADA will also continue
certain activities which are part of its already existing
program. Foreign sources will assist in finacing the
cost of both the project and the ongoing program.
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
|their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



- ii -
Benefits              The project's direct benefits would be the expected
and Risks:           increase in the production of cotton and food crops in
the project area. Since cotton is a major export crop,
increased production would engender increased foreign-
exchange earnings and Government revenues. The project
would benefit some 61,000 farm families directly, repre-
senting 20 percent of the CAR's rural population, most of
them presently in the absolute poverty group.  The
project would represent a significant beginning in the
reversal of past trends of declining agricultural
production and rural incomes in the cotton zone. In-
direct benefits would also accrue through proposed
institutional reforms, notably the strengthening of
SOCADA.
There are no major technological risks under the proposed
project. Sociological risks are relatively low since
beneficiary farmers have been selected because of their
demonstrated receptivity to recommended technical pack-
ages. The major constraint to achieving the project's
objectives is the poor quality and inefficiency of
SOCADA's extension services, and the possibility of the
agency's becoming financially overextended by trying to
implement the proposed agricultural development pro-
gram. The project includes appropriate measures to
counter these risks, particularly (a) reorganization of
the extension service, and systematic training of all
extension staff in the project area, (b) provision of
specialists' services, and (c) advance funding by
cofinanciers to minimize SOCADA's cash-flow problems.



Estimated Project and Program Costs:
Local     Foreign    Total
------- US$ million -------
Project Management Unit                     0.2         0.3        0.5
Production and Extension Services           3.3         3.1        6.4
Applied Research                            1.0         0.9        1.9
Seed Production Unit                        0.4         0.3        0.7
Training                                    0.6         0.7        1.3
Feeder Roads Unit                           2.0         2.4        4.4
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit              0.5         0.3        0.8
Animal Traction                             0.2         0.2        0.4
Village Water Supply                        0.8         0.7        1.5
Ginning Factories                           0.1         0.8        0.9
Maintenance Workshop                        0.1         0.1        0.2
Supply of Inputs                            0.5         1.8        2.3
Total Base Cost                             9.7        11.6       21.3
Physical Contingencies                      0.4         0.8        1.2
Price Contingencies                         5.0         2.2        7.2
Total Project Costs                        15.1        14.6       29.7
Non-Incremental Costs:
- Salaries and Operating Costs            5.0         0.9        5.9
- Inputs                                  3.3         8.1      11.4
Financial Rehabilitation SOCADA             4.2          -         4.2
Total Program Costs                        27.6        23.6       51.2
of which Taxes                            2.7          -        2.7
Net of Taxes                               24.9        23.6       48.5



- iv -
Financing Plan:
Project     Program
Total       Total
--- US$ million ---
IDA                  6.2       10.4 1/
FAC                  3.5        3.9
CCCE                 4.3        8.5
FED                  4.8         5.8
BADEA                3.4         3.4
Subtotal            22.2       32.0
SOCADA               5.0        7.0
Farmers              0.5         5.8
Government           2.0         6.4
TOTAL               29.7       51.2
Estimated Disbursements
from the proposed Credit:
(US$ millions)
Fiscal Year           FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88
Annual                      2.1 1/  2.5      2.6      2.0     1.2
Cumulative                  2.1      4.6     7.2      9.2    10.4
Economic Rate of Return:   22%
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 4187-CA dated May 11, 1983
Map:   IBRD 16666R
.
1/   Includes refinancing of PPF advance of US$1.0 million equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC FOR A COTTON AREA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Devel-
opment Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for the equivalent of SDR
9.7 million (US$10.4 million), on standard IDA terms, to help finance an Inte-
grated Rural Development Project in the Cotton Zone. The proposed project
would be cofinanced as follows:  France (FAC), $3.9 million equivalent; France
(CCCE), $8.5 million equivalent; the European Development Fund (FED), $5.8
million equivalent; and the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
(BADEA), $3.4 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       The last comprehensive economic report, entitled "The Economy of the
Central African Republic" (Report No. AW 16-a), was distributed to the Board
on May 22, 1970. During the second half of the 1970s, severe mismanagement
and the deteriorating political situation in the country made an economic dia-
logue impossible, and the Bank Group's activities in the CAR were reduced to
supervision of ongoing projects. After the overthrow of the Bokassa regime in
September 1979, the new Government expressed its desire to begin discussing
economic matters again with the Bank. The findings of economic missions which
visited the country in May 1982 and November 1982 will be presented in a
Country Economic Memorandum which is scheduled to be completed in early FY84.
Political Situation
3.       Following the overthrow of the Bokassa regime, President Dacko formed
a new Government. His two-year regime was plagued by political instability,
and in September 1981 the army stepped in to stabilize the situation. The new
military Government under President Kolingba has begun to address the
country's economic difficulties with the assistance of France, other bilateral
donors, and international organizations including the Bank Group and the IMF.
Economic Potential and Constraints
4.       The CAR is a landlocked country of 626,000 km2 with a population of
2.4 million growing at an annual rate of 2.5 percent. About 30 percent of the
1/   Slightly shortened version (since agriculture is discussed in detail
in Part III) of Part I of the President's Report on a proposed Second
Education Project in the CAR, which was distributed to the Board on
April 21, 1983.



- 2 -
inhabitants live in urban areas. With a 1980 per capita income of US$298, the
CAR is listed by the U.N. as one of the least-developed countries. The CAR is
a member of the five-country Central African Customs and Economic Union and
uses a common currency, the CFA franc, issued by a regional central bank, the
Bank of the Central African States.
5.       Agriculture accounts for 35 percent of the CAR's GDP, mining and
manufacturing account for 13 percent, utilities and construction for 6 per-
cent, and services for 46 percent.  High transportation costs in both domestic
and international trade and an oversized civil service are responsible for the
large part of services in GDP. Cotton and coffee are the most important
export crops.  Their combined exports have recently accounted for roughly one
third of the country's export earnings. Timber and diamonds, the other major
export products, have recently accounted for 20-30 percent each of export
earnings. Industrial production, accounting for only about 7 percent of GDP,
has been limited to consumer goods such as beverages, textiles, soaps, and
footwear, and to some processing for export of cotton, timber, coffee, and
diamonds. There are indications that the CAR has petroleum resources on the
border with Chad, and test drilling is expected to begin at the end of 1983.
6.       The CAR's landlocked position, difficult transport conditions, a
sparsely populated area, the small size of the domestic market, and a weak
human-resource base are the principal constraints to developing the country's
potential. Bottlenecks in the river/rail route to the sea through the Congo
and the road/rail route through Cameroon substantially raise production and
inventory costs and reduce the CAR's export competitiveness. Production costs
and prices are also high because capacity utilization is generally low and
because there is little competition, a situation which favors monopolistic
pricing policies.
7.       Import substitution, which should have benefited from natural protec-
tion due to the high transportation costs for imports, has been only moder-
ately successful. Political instability and financial difficulties in the
late 1970s and early 1980s led to stagnating public investments and a decline
in agricultural production and discouraged private investment. Years of ra-
pidly growing employment in the civil service and in public enterprises have
resulted, however, in incomes which enabled the urban population to pay for
high-priced imported goods. Import tariffs, which constitute a major source
of budgetary resources, have been ineffective in protecting domestic industry,
since it is very difficult to control the CAR's borders. Last but not least,
the expansion of import substitution has been hampered by a lack of skilled
personnel.
8.       Structural and institutional deficiencies have led to inefficient
management of the country's resources. The oversized public administration,
which accounts for roughly 50 percent of all salaried employees, constitutes a
drain on financial resources and limits the country's own contribution to
capital expenditures.



-3-
Recent Performance
9.       Under Bokassa, the country was ruled in an erratic manner.  A com-
bination of declining agricultural production, unsound investments, rapidly
increasing budgetary deficits and short-term expensive borrowing led to the
economic and political collapse in 1979, when the Bokassa regime was over-
thrown.  WorLd market prices for cotton had dropped at an average annual rate
of almost 12 percent in real terms between 1976 and 1979, and in 1979 coffee
prices in constant terms had fallen to two thirds of their high levels in
1976/77.  Public investments averaged only some 7 percent of GDP a year during
1976-1979, since foreign-aid disbursements were cut in half and domestic
S        capital expenditures dropped to their lowest level ever.  Consequently, the
country's infrastructure dilapidated, which resulted in the breakdown of agri-
cultural marketing channels and extension services. At the end of the Bokassa
regime, the public administration had virtually ceased to function.
10.      The two post-Bokassa governments have made serious attempts to re-
establish at least short-term programming and return to financial disci-
pline. An emergency reconstruction program for 1980-81, presented in mid-1980
to the international community at a donors' conference, received the general
support of the Bank and other donors. But in spite of substantial external
assistance, especially from France, the economy continued to decline. During
1980 and 1981, GDP fell by 3 percent a year, on average, and the minimal
growth of less than one half of 1 percent estimated for 1982 will lower per
capita income still more, by about 2 percent, assuming an annual population
growth of 2.5 percent. Declining cotton production, low investments, and
inefficient public and parapublic enterprises have been responsible for this
poor growth performance. During 1981 and 1982, cotton production dropped more
than 30 percent, on average, compared to production levels during the pre-
ceding three years. Investments remained at only 8 percent of GDP a year
during 1980-82 because most projects presented in the emergency program 1980-
81 required much additional preparation before first disbursements could be
made.
The Budget and Parapublic Sector
11.      Large budgetary deficits have become a major obstacle to making
better use of the CAR's resources.  Chronically low tax revenue/GDP ratios,
which averaged only 12 percent during 1977-1981, and high expenditure levels
caused by the oversized civil service (salary payments have in recent years
accounted for roughly two thirds of current expenditures) resulted in budget-
ary deficits which have averaged 5.5 percent of GDP during 1977-1981. Conse-
quently, the domestic contribution to investments has been minimal, debt pay-
ment arrears have been building up, and the public administration has at times
been crippled, since the Government has been able to purchase office equipment
and supplies only irregularly. in 1981, the Government made an effort to
reduce the deficit through a financial stabilization program in connection
with an IMF stand-by arrangement. Several taxes were raised; tax collection
was strengthened; and unjustified customs duty exemptions were reduced. Con-
sequently, tax revenues increased by 37 percent in 1982, while current expen-
diture growth has been held at 14 percent or stagnant in real terms, reducing
the budget deficit in 1982 to about 3 percent of estimated GDP. The budget



- 4 -
deficits have been financed by grants from France, loans from the banking
system, resources from the IMF and by arrears on debt payments. The Govern-
ment and the IMF have reached agreement on an economic and financial program
for a 1983 stand-by arrangement which aims at further control of current
expenditure; the program was approved by the IMF Board on April 22, 1983.
12.      During the 1970s, the Government promoted state ownership in the pro-
ductive sector. The CAR's limited managerial capacity resulted, however, in
low efficiency and financial losses. Most public enterprises incurred heavy
operating deficits, the exact size of which remained unclear since the enter-
prises discontinued generally accepted bookkeeping practices.  Payments for
services to the Government were made irregularly, and enterprises in turn
failed to pay taxes and to service their debts. In 1980 in an attempt to
remedy the situation, the Government began to convert public enterprises into
mixed and private enterprises. A High Commissioner in the Presidency is
assisting the parastatals in adopting acceptable accounting principles, pre-
paring the legal framework for the participation of the private sector,
reviewing price and tariff policy, and reducing staff. Those enterprises that
cannot be expected to produce profitably have been or are being closed. With
the help of a concessional loan from France, the enterprises' overdue tax
liabilities, inter-enterprise debt, and payment arrears by the Government were
largely liquidated in 1981. Additional funds will be needed, however, to
honor the Government's debt to several public enterprises, to cover losses,
and to facilitate the transformation of enterprises into private or mixed
companies.
Balance of Payments
13.      The CAR's balance of payments has recently been experiencing diffi-
culties which need to be addressed by appropriate policies. During 1970-1979,
merchandise exports rose at a moderate annual rate of 8 percent, though world
market prices for cotton, coffee and diamonds rose considerably faster. The
trade balance showed, however, general surpluses during the 1970s (with the
exception of 1975, when both domestic production and world market prices of
cotton were low), since imports also rose only moderately. During 1977-1979,
exports fell slightly because (a) cotton production had fallen about 30 per-
cent and world market prices 18 percent in real terms, compared to production
and price levels in the early 1970s; (b) coffee production rose only margi-
nally while world market prices in 1978 and 1979 had declined almost one third
in real terms from their high levels in 1976 and 1977; and (c) increased
export earnings from timber and diamonds could not compensate for the negative
developments in cotton and coffee exports. Imports stagnated during the same
period because investments had fallen off, and the demand for consumer foods
and petroleum products had declined, due to low incomes in the rural sector
and to the breakdown of the domestic transport system.
14.      The deterioration of the CAR's balance-of-payments situation during
the first three post-Bokassa years is a reflection of the decline of economic
activities in recent years in the CAR, in general, the continued fall of cot-
ton production, in particular, and also of unfavorable world market prices for
the main export crops. Average annual cotton production was 23,000 tons dur-
ing 1980-1982, compared to 34,000 tons during 1977-1979, 41,000 tons in 1976,



- 5 -
51,000 tons during 1970-1972, and almost 60,000 tons (the peak) in 1969 (para.
28). Export earnings from diamonds, coffee, and timber rose only marginally
as their production increased insignificantly or even fell during 1980-1982.
World market prices for cotton, coffee, and timber declined substantially over
the same period. The Government's efforts to revive the economy by raising
public investment expenditures, and by granting salary increases in the public
administration (both financed mainly by external sources) led t^ a strong
increase of imports of both project-related equipment and consumer goods.
Consequently, the average annual current-account deficit rose from 11 percent
of GDP during the second half of the 1970s to 16 percent of GDP during 1980-
1982. Substantial new capital inflows in 1980 and 1981 more than covered the
current account deficits, but failure to reach an agreement with the IMF in
1982 resulted in a fall-off in overall capital inflows and a moderate decline
in reserves. Net foreign assets have averaged US$27 million a year during the
last three years, which is equivalent to approximately six weeks of imports.
15.      In recent years, the IMF provided the CAR with  ibstantial balance-
of-payments support. In 1978, the country received a US$6.9 million equiva-
lent Trust Fund loan, and in 1980, balance-of-payments support amounted to
US$14.7 million equivalent (US$5.2 million equivalent First Credit Tranche,
plus US$9.5 million equivalent Trust Fund loan). In 1981, support from the
IMF amounted to US$20.6 million equivalent (US$11.6 million equivalent Compen-
satory Financing, plus US$9.0 million equivalent from the remaining First
Credit Tranche, the Second Credit Tranche, and part of the Third Credit
Tranche). In addition, the country has received a total of US$5.5 million
equivalent in SDR allocations since 1977.
External Debt
16.      As a result of its economic difficulties, the CAR is burdened with a
considerable external debt, estimated at about US$240 million at the end of
1981. In recent years the country has been servicing its debt only irregu-
larly, and at the end of 1982, arrears were estimated at some US$85 million,
or roughly one third of total public borrowing. At a Paris Club meeting in
June 1981, participating creditor countries agreed to reschedule both the
outstanding arrears and the debt obligations falling due in 1981, leaving a
debt-service obligation of US$11.1 million equivalent in 1981 (instead of the
US$24 million equivalent which would have fallen due in the absence of debt
rescheduling). Delayed bilateral negotiations resulted, however, in actual
debt service payments of only US$4.5 million equivalent in 1981, thus adding
US$6.6 million to arrears. In 1982, debt-service obligations amounted to
US$14 million after further debt renegotiations with France, but arrears in-
creased by another US$10 million, since the country could repay only US$4
million. Scheduled debt-service payments amounted to 8.1 percent and 12.6
percent of export earnings in 1981 and 1982, respectively, while actual pay-
ments during these two years amounted, on average, to 3.5 percent of export
earnings, or 4.7 percent of budget revenues. Further debt-relief negotiations
and reduction of arrears are a component of the IMF stand-by arrangement for
1983.



- 6 -
Development Priorities and Investment Program
17.      The Governments following the Bokassa regime have defined rehabilita-
tion of the agricultural sector, reconstruction and maintenance of infrastruc-
ture, rehabilitation and improvement of education, and redressing the large
financial imbalances as the most urgent development priorities. The Govern-
ment's National Action Program for 1982-85 was an important step forward in
terms of determining development priorities and making better use of available
external financing.  Planned investments under the Program reflect the estab-
lished priorities by allocating 30 percent to agriculture, 38 percent to
infrastructure, 24 percent to mining, manufacturing, small-scale industry and
tourism, and 8 percent to urban renovation, health, education, and administra-
tive purposes. Total investments, including those from the private sector,
would amount to about 12 percent of GDP, on average, in 1983 and 1984, com-
pared to about 9 percent in 1981 and 1982.
18.      In the National Action Program, average investment expenditures in
1983 and 1984 are 50 percent higher in real terms than those in 1981 and
1982. Investment levels in 1981 and 1982 have been low, and a rather strong
increase in investment expenditures over the next two years is anticipated
because (a) many projects are expected to reach their implementation stage
after two years of preparation, (b) an increased number of projects will be
carried out almost exclusively by private contractors, and (c) more than 90
percent of the Government's investment program during 1983-1984 is expected to
be financed by external sources, most of which has been secured.
Prospects
19.      The economy of the CAR, after having stagnated or declined during the
last several years, can be expected to show some gradual improvement over the
next few years if present reconstruction efforts and reform policies are con-
tinued. The implementation of necessary adjustments in the agricultural and
public sectors is likely to result in growth rates above the population in-
crease only in the second half of the 1980s, however. Cash-crop production is
expected to increase in response to higher producer prices for cotton and
coffee.  Prospects for cotton production are good from 1983 onwards, when the
proposed cotton area rural development project would begin to have an effect
and when world market prices are expected to recover from their present low
levels.  Foreign-exchange earnings and budget revenues from the forestry and
diamond sectors are expected to increase substantially because of (i) a fore-
casted strong rise of world market prices for timber, (ii) expanded production
in both sectors, and (iii) improved tax collection. The ongoing road rehabi-
litation program will stimulate agricultural exports and facilitate the supply
of inputs and imported goods needed for the country's reconstruction.  More-
over, the apparent return to political stability, the Government's encouraging
attitude toward the private sector, and the continued privatization of public
enterprises are expected to induce private investors to return to the CAR.
The full impact of these changes will not be felt immediately, but they have
set the stage for further improvements in the next years.
20.      In view of the country's poverty and debt-service problems, the CAR
is not creditworthy for conventional borrowing at present. In addition, even



- 7 -
assuming exceptional efforts to improve public financial performance, public
savings net of debt service are likely to remain negative during the early
1980s.  Therefore, the Government's contributions to public investments will
remain modest for several years. Foreign donors should be prepared to support
the Government's efforts at reform and rehabilitation by continuing their pro-
gram aid, assisting new development projects, extending their assistance on
highly concessional terms, and financing a high proportion of local costs.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE CAR
21.      Bank Group commitments in the CAR amount to US$68.7 million and cover
four transportation projects, two education projects, one livestock project,
and one technical assistance project. Annex II contains a summary statement
of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1983, as well as notes on the status of the on-
going projects. Project implementation in general has improved considerably
over the past three years. As a result, the CAR's most recent disbursement
rate (disbursements in relation to the undisbursed balance) compares favorably
with that of other countries, averaging 67 percent during the last five years.
22.      The level of lending and the sectoral composition of the Bank Group's
lending program to the CAR have been largely circumscribed by the country's
poor economic performance and limited absorptive capacity. If, however, the
present Government continues its efforts to improve its financial and economic
performance, IDA is considering lending its support to a second technical
assistance project, a further reconstruction/rehabilitation project in the
transport sector, and perhaps a small- and medium-scale enterprises project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
23.      Agriculture (including forestry, livestock, and fisheries) plays a
major role in the economy of the CAR, contributing approximately 35 percent of
GDP and 40 percent of export earnings, and employing nearly 80 percent of the
total labor force. Agricultural production is predominantly based on small-
holder farming and is largely subistence oriented. There are some 350,000
farm families, and they cultivate about one tenth of the country's total
arable land area.  Agricultural production is concentrated mainly in the
northwest and in the south-central part of the country; these two areas
account for 60 percent of the rural population.
24.      In spite of the substantial decline in production (para. 14), cotton
is still the most important export crop in terms of area sown (about 10 per-
cent of the total) and number of families (over one third of the rural popula-
tion). Coffee has overtaken cotton as the most important export crop in terms
of earnings; at present, it is second only to diamonds as a source of foreign
exchange earnings, accounting for about 25 percent of the total. Tobacco, the
third main export crop, is much less important than the other two. Food crops
(principally cassava, groundnuts, maize, millet, sorghum, sesame, vegetables,
and upland rice) cover 80 percent of the total crop area, and the CAR is
largely self-sufficient in food crops.



-8-
The Cotton Zone
25.      The CAR's cotton zone covers about 30 percent of the total area of
the country. Its 860,000 inhabitants (1979 data) represent almost 40 percent
of the national population. About 40 percent of the total area is potentially
arable, with soils ranging from average to very good fertility. The area is
well suited for production of cotton and food crops (which are traditionally
grown in rotation with cotton).
26.      The cotton zone is served by a road system of about 6,800 km.  For
lack of maintenance, this road system deteriorated severely during the 1970s,
disrupting traffic.  The resulting high transport costs have substantially
added to the cost of producing and marketing cotton and have led to a break-
down in the private network of food-crop marketing. Consequently, the
upgrading of this road network was identified as one of the country's top
priorities, a task which is being assisted by several external donors (includ-
ing IDA, under the Fourth Highway Project, Credit 1258-CA). The assistance of
external donors has been concentrated on the primary roads; however, rehabili-
tation of secondary roads and further feeder roads is the responsibility of
SOCADA (paras. 31 and 32), which has been able to maintain and repair only
about one third of such roads. The continuation and expansion of SOCADA's
feeder-road rehabilitation activities is therefore essential.
27.      Agricultural production in the cotton zone is based on some 190,000
farm units, of which about 80 percent are cotton growers. The average farm
consists of 1.5 ha of cultivated land, of which one third is devoted to
cotton, almost another third to cassava, and the remaining third to other food
crops. Apart from some animal traction, land clearing and cultivation are
done by hand. Deficient cultural practices (poor land preparation, little
concern for proper seeding densities and for timely planting and weeding) and
limited use of inputs (improved seeds, fertilizer, and pesticides) result in
low yields. Cotton yields in the CAR remain modest relative to those in other
African cotton-producing countries.
28.      Since 1969, the overall trend of cotton production has shown a de-
cline. Among the factors accounting for this production decline were the
following: (a) the so-called "Agrarian Reform" of 1970, which led to the
expulsion of most expatriate agricultural staff, a concomitant interruption of
cotton research and seed-multiplication activities, and a deterioration of the
input-supply, cotton-marketing, and extension systems; (b) declining real                   p
returns to cotton, representing a disincentive to cotton growers (the average
producer price of seed cotton only doubled between 1970 and 1980, whereas
retail prices of most staple consumer goods more than tripled); and (c) inade-
quate budgetary provisions for logistical and support services, including road
maintenance and extension.
Rural Development Policy
29.      The Government's development objectives in agriculture are to (a) in-
crease both the output and productivity of export crops; (b) revitalize food
production; and (c) develop regional package programs, involving both export
and food crops as well as physical and social infrastructure, to raise the



- 9 -
incomes and living standards of the rural population. Consistent with these
objectives, the Government's policies give special emphasis to cotton and
coffee production; the Government's target is to double coffee production by
1985 and restore cotton production to about 50,000 tons. Food production is
expected to increase simultaneously by 3-4 percent annually.
Major Sectoral Institutions
30.      Overall development planning is the responsibility of the recently
established High Commission for Planning in the Presidency, while the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) is responsible for directing, implementing,
and monitoring agricultural policies. The Government decided in 1980 to en-
trust the country's agricultural development to multipurpose regional develop-
ment agencies, each responsible for a broad ecological zone. Of these, the
two major ones active in the cotton zone are SOCADA and ACADOP.
31.      SOCADA (Central African Agricultural Developmen' agency) is jointly
owned by the CAR Government (75 percent) and by the CFDT (French Company for
the Development of Textile Fibers) (25 percent). It is responsible for devel-
oping agriculture (both cotton and food crops) throughout the CAR's cotton
zone. Nevertheless, SOCADA has largely emphasized cotton in its extension and
other activities. The proposed project would be a first step in promoting the
integration of cotton and food crops under a whole-farm development scheme.
At present, SOCADA employs about 400 permanent Central African staff and about
500 seasonal workers (to undertake its seed cotton marketing and ginning
operations). In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock assigns
its field staff on a full-time basis to execute SOCADA's extension program and
related research activities.
32.      Since its establishment in 1980, SOCADA has accumulated large operat-
ing losses, estimated at CFAF 2.5 billion or US$7.0 million equivalent. These
losses stem from several factors, including (a) the abrupt decline in seed
cotton production; (b) the company's high cost structure, due to the poor
state of its plants, machinery, vehicles, and road network throughout the
cotton zone, and the rapid rise of labor costs resulting from Government-
imposed salary adjustments; and (c) the company's increasing reliance on
short-term credits from local banks to finance its operation. To redress this
situation, the Government and SOCADA have already taken concrete measures
during project preparation--in particular, the suspension of all oil extrac-
tion operations and the closing of inefficient ginneries, which reduced the
total number of ginneries from 18 to 5, the permanent Central African labor
force from 930 (January 1981) to 386, and the seasonal labor force from 2,200
*       to about 500.  Other measures being implemented or under consideration include
sub-contracting cotton lint transport to the private sector, hiring an expa-
triate accountant, and replacing SOCADA's vehicle fleet. Thus, given the
expected increase in seed cotton production and the projected recovery in
cotton prices on the world market, it is estimated that SOCADA will generate
rising net surpluses from its industrial and commercial operations starting in
1983, thereby being able to provide a sizeable contribution to the financing
of its agricultural development activities. However, SOCADA could not achieve
full financial solvency until it settled its substantial short-term debts and
recovered its initial working capital, which had been fully depleted. Thus,



10 -
the financial rehabilitation of SOCADA was a precondition of proceeding with
the project. The problem has now been solved, largely through a soft loan
from the CCCE, which will enable SOCADA to pay off its short-term debts and
carry out its proposed agricultural development program.
33.      The other institution involved in agricultural development in the
cotton zone is ACADOP (Central African Agency for the Development of the Ouham
Pende Province), an autonomous regional agency created in 1977, which was to
be responsible for all agricultural development in the Ouham Pende Region
(32,000 km2). To date, this program has only covered the Paoua district. In
accordance with the ongoing reorganization of the agricultural sector, the
Government has decided to streamline ACADOP's activities in the Ouham Pende,
allowing it to concentrate on those activities it does best (village water
supply, animal traction, feeder road maintenance, rural health, etc.). SOCADA
would be responsible for agricultural extension services, including supply of
inputs, applied research, seed multiplication, feeder road rehabilitation, and
monitoring and evaluation.
External Assistance
34.      Agricultural development in the cotton zone is assisted by various
external donors. Besides its support for applied research, seed multipli-
cation and rural road rehabilitation programs, French bilateral aid finances
technical assistance to strengthen the extension services in the Kemo
Gribingui Province. A FED-financed cotton productivity project covers four
districts in the Ouham Province, including provision of technical assistance
and agricultural inputs. German bilateral aid is financing an integrated
rural development project in the Ouham Pende Province, which provides support
for both cotton and food crops as well as for the development of social infra-
structure. CCCE also provided a long term loan to finance agricultural inputs
for the 1981/1982 growing season, and equipment and operating expenses for the
rural road program. Although these projects have been restricted in terms of
geographical coverage, they have shown that good prospects exist for the
restoration of cotton production. In the areas covered by such projects,
post-project cotton yields have generally been higher than the national aver-
age (324 kg/ha). Proven technology packages are now available under which
considerable cotton yield increases can be achieved using improved cultivation
and phytosanitary treatments. On the other hand, these projects have had only
a limited impact on food crop production. Extension services have concen-
trated mainly on cotton, and improved varieties of food crop seeds are
generally in short supply. It is therefore important that food crops be given
increased support under the proposed project.
Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector
35.      IDA has financed only one agricultural operation in CAR, a five-year
livestock development project (Credit 894-CA), effective since July 1980 and
designed to promote beef production and to improve the living conditions of
one of the poorest segments of the country's rural population, the Mbororo
herdsmen. The project is being cofinanced by IFAD, the African Development
Fund, and the EEC. To date, physical progress has been slow. The project was
plagued by serious financial management difficulties, and the effectiveness of



- 11 -
the project has been hampered by the poor quality, inadequate motivation, and
continuous turnover of the field staff. Experience indicated that the project
would be unable to achieve its objectives if it were to rely exclusively on
the official veterinary service.  Thus, in September 1982, a joint cofinan-
ciers' mission agreed with the Government on a major reorganization of the
project. The National Association of Central African Livestock Owners (ANEC)
is now playing a key role in the drug-sale program and the provision of animal
health services. The proposed rural development project has been designed to
avoid repetition of the shortcomings experienced under the livestock project
by minimizing its dependence on the central Government services.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
36.      The rehabilitation of cotton and food-crop production is a critical
factor in increasing the country's foreign-exchange revenues and in raising
the standard of living of the rural population. Thus, following the Govern-
ment's request at the donors' conference held in Bangui in June 1980, IDA
agreed to take the lead in preparing an integrated rural development project
in the cotton zone. This work was carried out in late 1981 by consultants
financed under a Technical Assistance Project (Credit 1150-CA). The proposed
project was appraised jointly by IDA, FAC, FED, and CCCE in June 1982. An IDA
post-appraisal mission visited the CAR in October 1982. An IDA PPF advance of
US$1.0 million equivalent was extended on April 8, 1983 to assist in financing
inputs for the 1983-84 growing season (with parallel contributions from other
project cofinanciers), initial training of extension staff, and start-up acti-
vities of a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. FAC, FED, CCCE, and BADEA
will cofinance the project with IDA. Cofinancing arrangements were finalized
at a cofinanciers' meeting on April 11, 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington on April 12-14, 1983. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. Cyriaque Samba-Panza, Assistant to the High Commissioner for International
Cooperation. Key events and special conditions of the project are listed in
Annex III. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 4187-CA, dated May 5, 1983, is
being distributed separately.
Project Objectives
.
37.      The objectives of the proposed project are (i) to improve the stand-
ard of living of the population in the cotton zone, (ii) to increase the pro-
duction of cotton through improvements in productivity, (iii) to increase
food-crop production through the introduction of improved varieties and better
cultural practices, and (iv) to assist SOCADA, the CAR's major rural-devel-
opment institution, to become a more effective and financially sound
development agency.
Project Design and Description
38.      Given the limited experience and capabilities of the extension ser-
vice, and to avoid overextending SOCADA, the proposed project will concentrate



- 12 -
on institution-building and a limited part of the CAR's cotton-growing area,
with the possibility that benefits can later be extended to the whole of the
cotton zone in a possible follow-up project. The proposed project will cover
specific areas selected because of their favorable ecological conditions and
proximity to SOCADA's ginning, research, and seed multiplication facilities
and because local farmers have demonstrated receptivity to the recommended
technical packages. Based on available data on farmers and the cotton area,
it is estimated that the proposed project will directly reach some 61,000 farm
families (i.e., about 40 percent of the cotton zone's total population), cul-
tivating some 32,000 ha of cotton and 67,200 ha of food crops.
Project Components                                                                           a
39.      The project will include (a) strengthening of the agricultural exten-
sion service; (b) providing, through credit or cash, production inputs (fer-
tilizer, pesticides) and agricultural implements; (c) supporting and reorgani-
zing existing applied research and seed multiplication programs; (d) promoting
animal traction; (e) maintaining 2,300 km of feeder roads and rehabilitating
950 km of those roads; (f) constructing about 150 village water wells; (g)
improving SOCADA's five cotton ginneries; (h) improving SOCADA's vehicle
maintenance capacity; (i) establishing a project monitoring and evaluation
system; (j) establishing a project coordination unit; and (k) providing short-
term consultancy services for specialized studies and for preparing a possible
follow-up project.
40.      Applied research on cotton is already being carried out in the CAR by
the IRCT (Research Institute for Cotton and Textile Fibers). The agronomic
package to be introduced under the project for cotton will be largely based on
successful techniques promoted by IRCT and already being practiced by a few
progressive farmers. Agronomic packages for food crops will be based on the
results of a UNDP/FAO project which operated in the CAR from 1975 until 1982
and on experience gained in neighboring countries. The packages will cover
improved crop husbandry (particular attention will be paid to good land pre-
paration and timely sowing), plant density, weeding and rotational practices,
usage of improved varieties, fertilizing and spraying of cotton, and selective
use of pesticides on other crops.
41.      The existing agricultural extension service will be improved through
reorganization of its structure, staff training, and provision of technical
assistance, vehicles, village warehouses, and operating expenditures. The
village warehouses will be built with farmers' assistance and will serve as
centers for distributing inputs and for organizing marketing and other activi-
ties.  An intensive training and retraining program will be initiated shortly               0
with financing from the IDA PPF advance. The program will be supported
through the provision of two training teams (including two internationally
recruited training specialists) and the necessary transport and teaching
materials. The financing of operating expenditures will allow an expansion in
the total number of extension personnel as well as provision of vehicle
operating costs and extension materials and supplies.
42.      Seasonal production inputs (fertilizer and pesticides) and agricul-
tural implements will be distributed to farmers through the extension system



- 13 -
and will be partly financed through a seasonal credit program. All credit
will be secured by cotton, and credit recovery will be effected at the time of
seed cotton purchasing by SOCADA.
43.      The applied research program, successfully initiated under bilateral
financing, will be continued under the proposed project by an applied research
and seed multiplication division within SOCADA. Given the good results al-
ready obtained for improving cotton production, research on cotton will be
consolidated, and the emphasis will be shifted towards food crops. The
research division will have a cotton section at Bambari, a food-crop section
located at Bossangoa, and a phytopathological section (for both cotton and
food crops) at Bangui.  Research activities will be supported under the
project through the provision of technical assistance (three internationally
recruited specialists and three Central African researchers), housing and
office repairs, support personnel, vehicles and equipment, and fellowships.
44.      Seed multiplication (of both cotton and food-crc-) seeds) will be
consolidated under the project at four existing experimental stations. Seeds
will be distributed and sold to farmers by the extension service. Seed multi-
plication will be supported under the project through the provision of build-
ings (including housing and seed-drying floors), vehicles, agricultural equip-
ment and implements, and operating costs.
45.      The promotion of animal traction offers scope for overcoming the pro-
blem of labor shortages at peak periods and also for raising yields through a
better timing and quality of cultivation.  Under the project, an animal
traction unit will be established within SOCADA, an existing animal traction
center in Bossangoa will be supported, and a new center will be built in Kaga
Bandoro. Furthermore, a credit fund for the provision of animals and equip-
ment will be established. Since the program is aimed at introducing oxen
cultivation in areas with limited experience in animal traction, only 350
pairs of oxen are targeted for purchase by interested farmers under the pro-
posed project.
46.      Feeder roads are rebuilt and maintained by SOCADA's brigades.  Under
the proposed project, SOCADA's roads department will be strengthened through
the provision of equipment and vehicles, additional workshop accommodations,
technical assistance, construction materials, training of local staff, and
operating expenditures. SOCADA has confirmed that construction standards
would be essentially similar to those already established under ongoing pro-
grams.  A tentative list of roads to be improved was agreed upon during
appraisal. Furthermore, not later than July 1 of each year, SOCADA will pre-
*       pare and submit to IDA for prior review and comment an annual work program and
related budget for feeder roads to be rehabilitated in the project area
(Section 2.05(a) of the draft PA). Finally, the Government has confirmed
that all equipment presently operated by SOCADA's road brigades will be made
available for utilization under the project (Section 2.05(c) of the draft PA).
47.      The rural water supply component aims at introducing suitable tech-
niques for constructing safe, clean wells and at developing the existing small
nucleus of staff of the MAE's rural civil works division into construction
teams. It will include a preliminary feasibility study to find the best



- 14 -
approach to well construction in the project area, construction of some 150
wells, the purchase and installation of 150 handpumps, technical assistance,
and training.
48.      The five remaining cotton ginneries will be reinforced under the
project to reach a minimum capacity of 650 tons of seed cotton per week,
through provision and installation of needed equipment.
49.      Two thirds of SOCADA's agricultural transport fleet is at least ten
years old and is often out of service being maintained. The existing trans-
port maintenance facilities at Bossangoa and Bambari will be improved under
the project through the construction of additional sheltered workshop build-
ings and the provision of servicing and repair equipment.
50.      A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit will be established within
SOCADA to provide information from the field on progress toward project objec-
tives and suggestions on constructive modifications needed during project
implementation. In particular, the Unit will measure and evaluate the
project's physical progress and effectiveness, examine topics such as farmers'
reactions to the proposed technical packages and the effectiveness of support
services, and collect and maintain detailed documentary data on the cotton
zone's development constraints and potential. Under the proposed project, the
Unit will be supported through provision of offices, vehicles, equipment,
technical assistance (an internationally recruited monitoring and evaluation
specialist), local staff salaries, and other operating costs. The Unit's
establishment is a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(e) of the
draft DCA) and will be financed from the IDA PPF advance, to allow for train-
ing of staff and completion of a baseline survey of the cotton zone prior to
commencement of project activities. SOCADA has confirmed that a detailed work
program for the unit will be submitted to IDA for review within six months of
the specialist's arrival in Bangui (Section 2.06 of the draft PA), and that
evaluation of data will be summarized in the project's quarterly and annual
reports and in special reports to be submitted within three months after com-
pletion of each field survey (Section 2.12(c) of the draft PA).
51.      A Project Coordination Unit will be created within SOCADA's head-
quarters in Bangui which will be responsible for overall coordination of
project implementation. The Unit's establishment is a condition of Credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(e) of the draft DCA). An internationally re-
cruited project coordinator will be provided under the project to head this
unit, as will a small support staff, office and housing accommodations, a
vehicle for field visits, and related operating costs.
52.      About ten man-months of short-term consultancy services will also be
provided under the project, to carry out specialized studies of problems
arising during project implementation and to contribute to the preparation of
a possible follow-up project.
Project Implementation
53.      SOCADA will be responsible for overall project supervision and moni-
toring, including preparation of annual work programs, budgets, and progress



15 -
reports. SOCADA will also implement all project components, except for the
rural water supply component, which will be implemented by the MAE's rural
water supply division. The Government and SOCADA will enter into a Convention
which will determine SOCADA's tasks and responsibilities, including a clear
definition of the flow of funds and arrangements for reimbursing SOCADA for
its overhead costs incurred while providing financial, accounting and pro-
curement services for the project. The draft Convention was reviewed during
negotiations and its signing, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 5.01(a) of
the draft DCA). SOCADA is to be managed by a competent Central African
General Director, who will be the Project Manager. He will be assisted in
*        day-to-day supervision and financial control of project activities by a
Project Coordinator. The Government has confirmed that for the duration of
the project, experienced and qualified staff will be appointed to these two
positions on terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section
2.08(b) of the draft PA). To avoid possible duplication of efforts, it is
essential that the rzspective responsibilities of SOCADA and ACADOP be
formally stated in a Protocole. The draft Protocole was reviewed during
negotiations and its signing, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, is
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 5.01(c) of
the draft DCA).
54.      Reorganization of Extension Services.  A serious handicap in the
effectiveness of the extension service stems from the fact that all Central
African field staff are civil servants of MAE, seconded to SOCADA and ACADOP
on a full-time basis, whereas they are being paid directly under the national
budget. This separation of salary payment responsibility (Government) from
technical supervision over daily work (SOCADA, ACADOP) has proven difficult in
two ways. Firstly, frequent delays in the payment of salaries by MAE under-
mine staff morale and cause disruption of work. Secondly, the Ministry's
practice of reassigning its staff without prior consultation with the imple-
menting agency concerned has blurred the lines of authority and has, at times,
created disciplinary problems. It is therefore essential to establish a
unified structure of the extension service under the full technical, admini-
strative and financial control of SOCADA by transferring all MAE's seconded
staff to SOCADA's regular labor force. This transfer is already well under-
way, but since it must be completed before project inception, to avoid undue
delays in starting field activities, it is a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed IDA Credit (Section 5.01(d) of the draft DCA).
55.      As described in para. 38, project activities will cover only selected
areas of the cotton zone in order to avoid overextending SOCADA logistically
and financially. However, in order to facilitate the eventual integration of
the rest of the cotton zone into a possible follow-up project, SOCADA will
continue to provide limited support services to the remaining cotton growing
areas. SOCADA has confirmed that, during the project period, (a) no new in-
vestments will be undertaken outside the project area without prior approval
by IDA; (b) support services provided by SOCADA in these areas will remain at
current (1982/83) levels, both in terms of extension coverage and input dis-
tribution; and (c) SOCADA will not declare any dividend or distribution of
profits (Section 3.04 of the draft PA).



- 16 -
560       Input Subsidy Policy and Cotton Pricing Policy.  At present, SOCADA
provides cotton farmers with fertilizer and insecticides at prices which are
fixed annually by Government decree and have been in the past substantially
lower than the economic value of these inputs. In the 1982/83 growing season,
the subsidy element amounted to 72 percent on fertilizer and 86 percent on
insecticides, giving a weighted average subsidy level of about 80 percent of
the cost of these inputs. This subsidy policy has been one of the causes of
SOCADA's substantial operating deficit (para. 32). Therefore, over the four-
year project period, the Government will reduce subsidies on seasonal inputs
for cotton from about 80 percent to about 40 percent by the end of the project
(Section 3.06(a) of the draft DCA), with a view to phasing them out totally
over a period of about eight years. The Government and the cofinanciers will
review annually the subsidy question. At the same time, the producer price of
seed cotton will be progressively increased, in coordination with projected
yield increases, in such a way as to ensure that farmer returns will increase
sufficiently to provide incentives to cotton producers (Section 3.06(a) of the
draft DCA).
57.       Interest Rate Policy.  The Government's policy has heretofore been
that farmers should not be charged interest on credit for seasonal inputs and
farm equipment. This policy has resulted in a considerable financial burden
on SOCADA, which relies on short-term notes with local banks to pre-finance
these inputs. The financing of inputs by the external cofinanciers will be
used under the project as a vehicle for introducing a change in this policy of
interest-free credit. Seasonal inputs (fertilizer and insecticides) will be
provided to farmers on short-term credit; SOCADA will introduce a mark-up of 9
percent on the prices to farmers, equivalent to an annual rate of interest of
about 13.5 percent. Ox-drawn equipment will be supplied to those farmers
owning one pair of oxen on medium-term credit of up to 100 percent of the cost
of this equipment, for three years, and carrying an interest rate of 9 percent
p.a. (Section 2.07(a) of the draft PA). Since the domestic inflation rate is
expected to remain about 13 percent p.a. during the project period, there will
still be a subsidy element in the interest rate applied on medium-term credit.
However, the 9 percent rate represents a significant improvement over the
present policy, and the subsidy element is justified in the context of the
Government's efforts to promote animal traction.
58.       Staffing and Technical Assistance.  The lack of experienced local
staff is a major constraint to the implementation of agricultural development
projects in the CAR.  The Government is aware of this problem and agrees that
the critical shortage of technical and middle-management personnel can only be
alleviated in the short term by technical assistance. To ensure the success-
ful implementation of the proposed project, a number of existing and new key
posts will be filled with internationally recruited specialists, for a total
of 74 man-years of resident staff. A total of 116 man-months of short-term
consultants, including 25 man-months of a hydrologist (for the village water
supply component) and 10 man-months (for special studies and the preparation
of a possible follow-up project) will also be provided under the project. All
consultants and experts will have qualifications, experience, and terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.03(a) of the draft
PA). One of the major obligations of the resident expatriate staff will be to



- 17 -
provide the in-service training of their Central African deputies, to facili-
tate an eventual transfer of responsibility. The signing of satisfactory
contracts for the project coordinator, the monitoring and evaluation special-
ist, and the director of SOCADA's Production Department is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 6.01(f) of the draft DCA).
Except for local staff for the Project Monitoring and Evaluatic- Unit to be
established as a condition of Credit effectiveness, all counterpart staff for
the posts foreseen under the project are already employed either by SOCADA or
by the MAE. The Government has provided assurances that it will designate all
required local staff as official counterparts to the expatriate experts, with
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment acceptable
to IDA (Section 2.03(b) of the draft PA).
Project Costs
59.      The total project cost is US$29.7 million equivilent, of which the
foreign-exchange component is 49 percent (US$14.6 millioi: equivalent) and cus-
toms duties and identifiable taxes are 7 percent (US$2.0 million equiva-
lent). In addition to the total project cost, SOCADA will have other, non-
incremental costs over the project period, including (a) US$4.2 million equi-
valent for its own financial rehabilitation, (b) US$11.4 million equivalent
for non-incremental inputs, and (c) US$5.9 million equivalent for non-incre-
mental salaries and operating costs. Thus, the total financing required for
SOCADA's program over the four-year period, including incremental (project)
costs as well as non-incremental costs, is estimated at US$51.2 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of 46 percent (US$23.6 million
equivalent) and with customs duties and identifiable taxes of 5 percent
(US$2.7 million equivalent). Cost estimates are based on end-1982 prices and
include physical contingencies of 10 percent of all costs except local
salaries, technical assistance, and consultants' services. Local price
contingencies are estimated at the rate of 13 percent per year through 1986.
Price contingencies for foreign costs are estimated at 8 percent for 1983, 7.5
percent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985, and 6 percent for 1986. Total contin-
gencies are US$13.8 million equivalent, or 28 percent of the total base cost
of the program, net of taxes. Price contingencies are US$11.7 million equiva-
lent, or 24 percent of the total base cost of the program, net of taxes.
60.      Given the country's present difficult budgetary situation and
balance-of-payments situation, and in order to support the major policy
reforms to be undertaken under the proposed project, foreign sources, includ-
ing IDA, will finance a large proportion of the total project cost, as well as
part of the non-incremental costs of SOCADA's four-year program. Total
external financing will amount to US$32.0 million equivalent, or 66 percent of
the net-of-tax total cost of SOCADA's four-year program (US$48.5 million
equivalent). Foreign sources, including IDA, will provide US$22.2 million
equivalent, or 80 percent of the total project costs net of taxes (US$27.7
million equivalent). The financing plan shown in Annex IV was finalized at
the cofinanciers' meeting, and FAC, FED, OCCE, and BADEA have confirmed their
contributions as shown. The signing and fulfillment of effectiveness
conditions of the agreements with the other cofinanciers are conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 5.01(b) of the draft DCA).



- 18 -
61.      The proposed IDA Credit of US$10.4 million equivalent will finance 23
percent of the net-of-tax total cost of the project and 21 percent of the net-
of-tax total cost of SOCADA's four-year program (44 percent of foreign
costs). The proposed Credit will be used to finance civil works, vehicles,
equipment, technical assistance and consulting services, and operating costs
(of vehicles) for the following project components: (i) training of the
agricultural extension service; (ii) the seed multiplication program; (iii)
the project monitoring and evaluation system; (iv) the project coordination
unit; and (v) specialized studies and preparation of a possible follow-up
project. The proposed Credit will also be used to finance the incremental
seasonal inputs (fertilizer, pesticides) and about 37 percent of the non-
incremental inputs needed by SOCADA during the four-year period. Both
incremental and non-incremental inputs will be financed on a declining basis
over the project period.
62.      SOCADA will contribute US$7.0 million equivalent (14 percent of the
total program cost), representing mainly local staff salaries. Farmers will
provide US$5.8 million equivalent (11 percent), representing their contribu-
tion for improved seeds and seasonal inputs. The CAR Government will con-
tribute US$6.4 million equivalent (13 percent), representing salaries of local
personnel and operating costs (US$2.8 million equivalent) and foregone taxes
(US$2.7 million equivalent). The non-tax contribution of the Government
represents 6 percent of the net-of-tax total cost of SOCADA's four-year
program.
63.      Because the Government may find it difficult, in its present finan-
cial situation, to prefinance expenditures eligible for reimbursement from the
IDA Credit and from other cofinanciers, a Special Account of US$1.6 million,
advanced from the IDA Credit and by other cofinanciers, will be established in
a local bank acceptable to IDA (Section 2.03 of the draft DCA). IDA's share
in the Special Account will amount to US$0.1 million, to be deposited in a
separate sub-account of the Special Account, and managed so as to clearly
identify the use of the IDA-advanced funds. The Special Account's funds will
be used for the local procurement of civil works, building materials, spare
parts, small equipment, local salaries, and other project operating costs.
The remaining items (seasonal inputs, capital costs, technical assistance, and
consultants' services) will be financed by the cofinanciers in amounts pro-
rata to their respective shares of financing by payments directly to the sup-
pliers. The figure of US$1.6 million corresponds to an estimated six months
of eligible expenditures.  SOCADA will draw from the Special Account to
replenish a Project Account in a local commercial bank acceptable to IDA
(Section 3.02(d) of the draft DCA); the Government's own contribution to the
project would also be deposited in the Project Account.  The establishment of
the Special Account and the Project Account (with an initial Government
deposit of CFAF 120 million) are conditions of Credit effectiveness (Section
5.01(g) of the draft DCA).



- 19 -
Procurement
64.      Contracts for the minor building construction and renovation to be
done under the project will be awarded on the basis of local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Vehicles, farm machinery, office
equipment, and seasonal inputs will be procured by international competitive
bidding in li,ie with IDA guidelines. Contracts for 15.3 man-years of tech-
nical assistance, at an average cost of US$7,550 per man-month, and 24 man-
months of consultants' services, averaging about US$10,340 per man-month
(including salaries, travel expenses, allowances, and overheads, but not
including contingencies), will be awarded in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines. The award of contracts for project components not financed by IDA will
follow the procurement procedures of the respective donors.
Disbursement and Reporting
65.      The propos-i IDA Credit of US$10.4 million will be disbursed over
four and a half years and will cover, for those components listed in
para. 61: (i) 66 percent of the contract costs for civil works (US$0.09
million); (ii) 100 percent of the contract costs for vehicles and equipment
(US$0.53 million); (iii) 85 percent of operating costs (US$0.84 million); (iv)
100 percent of the costs for technical assistance and consultants' services
(US$1.74 million); (v) 50 percent of the contract costs of seasonal inputs
(US$7.10 million); (vi) refunding of 100 percent of the withdrawn amount of
the PPF advance (US$1.00 million); and (vii) an initial advance of US$0.10
million to the Special Account. Disbursement for vehicles, equipment, tech-
nical assistance, consultants' services and seasonal inputs will be against
full documentation. Disbursements for civil works, operating costs and local
salaries will be against certified statements of expenditures. Full support-
ing documentation, showing costs incurred by category, will be retained for
review by independent auditors and IDA supervision missions. SOCADA will keep
records consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect
both the overall financial situation of the company and the detailed costs of
operating the project components (Section 4.01(a) of the draft PA). A condi-
tion of Credit effectiveness is submission by SOCADA of its audited 1981/82
financial statements (Section 6.01(h) of the draft DCA). During the project
period, SOCADA's accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA (Section 4.02 of the draft PA). SOCADA will submit annual and quar-
terly progress reports to IDA (Section 2.12(b)(iii) of the draft PA) and a
project completion report within six months after the closing date (Section
2.12(e) of the draft PA).
Project Benefits and Justification
66.      The project's direct economic benefits will be the expected increase
in the production of cotton and food crops in the project area. These bene-
fits will accrue to some 61,000 farm families, most of them presently in the
absolute poverty group, representing 20 percent of the CAR's rural popula-
tion. The project will represent a significant beginning in the reversal of
past trends of declining agricultural production and rural incomes in the
cotton zone. The expected indirect benefits through institutional reforms are
at least equally important: the proposed project will introduce the major



- 20 -
operational and financial improvements needed to transform SOCADA into an
effective rural development agency capable of gradually expanding its activi-
ties to the whole cotton zone. The applied research and seed multiplication
components will provide the basis for further increases in productivity.
Finally, the water supply component will provide safe, clean water to rural
areas, reduce time spent fetching water, and generate significant long-term
health benefits.
67.      The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 22 percent,
based on a comparison of the expected directly quantifiable incremental
benefits and the economic costs of project activities, including the applied
research and the training components, the benefits of which are difficult to
quantify (and therefore not included in the benefit stream). If the costs of
the applied research and training components are excluded from the economic
costs, the economic rate of return rises to about 32 percent. The project's
economic viability is sensitive to variations in costs and benefits. For
instance, a 20 percent rise in costs would reduce the economic rate of return
to about 12 percent. A simultaneous 10 percent rise in costs and a one-year
lag in benefits would yield an economic rate of return of about 10 percent.
Risks
68.      There are no major technological risks under the proposed project;
the proposed production packages for cotton and the improved seed varieties
for food crops have been proven in the CAR and in other ecologically similar
West African countries, including neighboring Cameroon. Sociological risks
are relatively low since beneficiary farmers have been selected because of
their demonstrated receptivity to the recommended technical packages. The
major risk is the presently limited experience and capabilities of SOCADA's
extension services. The project is designed, however, specifically to address
this problem, mainly through the provision of training and retraining, tech-
nical assistance, and logistical support. Another significant risk is that
SOCADA might become financially overextended by trying to implement the pro-
posed agricultural development program. Measures have already been taken to
streamline and improve the efficiency of the agency's industrial and commer-
cial operations. In addition, the Government and SOCADA have agreed not to
declare any dividend or distribution of profit during the project period, to
limit the scope of SOCADA's activities outside the project area, and to
gradually phase out the subsidies on seasonal inputs. A third risk is that
production inputs might not be acquired and distributed in a timely fashion.
The establishment of the Special Account, financed by advances from the
cofinanciers, will reduce this risk by minimizing SOCADA's cash-flow pro-
blem. Finally, in view of the relative returns on the various crops, which at
present favor food crops, there is a risk that farmers may choose to increase
their production of foodcrops at the expense of cotton. It is unlikely,
however, that relative returns to food crops will continue to be better than
that to cotton, since both the size of the domestic market and export possibi-
lities for food crops are quite limited. Furthermore, the progressive
increase in the producer price of seed cotton should provide an adequate
incentive for cotton production.



- 21 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.      The draft DCA between the Central African Republic and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between SOCADA and the Association, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors separately.
70.      Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be (a) the estab-
lishment of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit and the Project
Coordination Unit (paras. 50 and 51); (b) the signature of a satisfactory
Convention between the Government and SOCADA (para. 53); (c) the signature of
a satisfactory Protocole between SOCADA and ACADOP (para. 53); (d) the trans-
fer of all the MAE's extension staff in the cotton zone to SOCADA's regular
labor force (para. 54); (e) the signature of a satisfactory contract(s) for
the project coordinator, the monitoring and evaluation specialist, and the
director of the production department (para. 58); (f) the signing and fulfill-
ment of effectiveness conditions of the grant and loan agreements with the
other cofinanciers (para. 60); (g) the establishment of a Special Account and
a Project Account (with an initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 120
million) (para. 63); and (h) the submission by SOCADA of its audited 1981/82
financial statements (para. 65).
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
May 11, 1983



-22-                                                     Page 1 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   GES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             623.0                                   MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       49.3               1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAPARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   100.0        150.0      300.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        29.9         61.1      45.7                   66.5                    610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1538.0         1857.0    2294.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.7           31.1      40.9                   17.8                     28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                          3.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           11.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          2.5          3.0       3.6                   27.7                     54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       32.3         38.4      45.5                   86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           38.7         39.6      40.9                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                           57.9         56.7      55.3                   52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.5          3.7       3.9                    2.9                      2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                1.0          1.9       2.1                    2.7                      2.8
URBAN                                4.5          5.1       4.8                    6.2                      5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       42.6         45.0      44.4                   47.3                     47.2
CRUDE DEATH BATE (PER THOUSAND)       27.8         24.8      20.8                   19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.6          2.8       2.9                    3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           100.0       100.0      101.0                   88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     94.2         93.3      91.8/c                 90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            40.9         41.5      41.4t/c                53.1                     54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          9.7         10.4      10.57T                 18.4                     17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       45.8         39.3      32.3                   26.7                     23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.7           39.4      43.8                   45.6                     51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            194.7        173.0     148.5                  129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..      16.0/d                 23.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40. 0T                 54.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..       5.0T                  18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         72.0        ..                   25.8
URBAN                                 ..         64.0         ..                  63.1
RURAL                                 ..         96.0        ..                   20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           49612.9     44214.3   20273.6/c              32097.3                  14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING tERSON       3276.2       1605.0    1543.87E               3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              814.2        535.5     720.4/c               1225.0                  1036.4                                 4
URBAN                              697.7       627.9      609.6T7                249.5                   430.8
RURAL                              856.1        512.1     897.3/c               1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..         21.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                3.9           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                3.4          ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..                               ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                        Page 2 of 6
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP. - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
CENTRAL AFRICAN REP.             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGNTED AVE%G?S
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  32.0         65.0      77.0/c                 63.2                     83.3
MALE                  53.0         91.0      10o.07i                72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                12.0         44.0       54.0/c                50.3                     80.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          4.0      10.0/c                 10.2                     15.3
MALE                   2.0          7.0       16.0/c                13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 0.3          2.0        4.07E                 6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  10.0           12.1        7.7/f                 7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             58.1         63.7      64.7/c                 47.4                     38.6
SECONDARY                           29.7         21.5         ..                  26.2                     23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          7.4/e         ..       38.5                  34.0                     35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4          3.3        5.2/g                 3.0                     31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           7.8         24.8      49.0                   34.8                     71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..       0.1                    1.7                     17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    0.3          0.3         ..                   2.9                     19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3            0.3         ..                   1.1                      0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        928.5       1070.8    1249.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.4         49.0      48.6                   34.1                     36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               94.0         91.0       88.0                  78.4                     56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   2.0          3.0       4.0                    9.2                     17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 60.4         57.7       54.5                  41.4                     37.0
MALE                                  63.2         61.2       58.5                  53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                57.7         54.4       50.8                  29.1                     27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.7          0.8        0.8                    1.2                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URRAN                                 ..           ..         ..                 134.3                    507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..      49.0                   82.9                    200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
U RBAN                                ..           ..         ..                  96.4                    523.9
RIURAL                                ..           ..      91.0                   60.4                    203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977;  /d 1976; /e 1962; /f 1975; /g 1974.
May, 1982



- 24 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DEFUITMS OFSOCIA   IJWIATGMSPage    3    of    6
Noe:Altheogh the data are dla   fern sorre  gener-lly ledgd the  ma tnothaitet- and relIable, it   eold aln he eard that thay  my sat he inter-
natiolly  -onarble hbtnos  of the l1nk of stadardized defloitoa  ead   -rPt. nee  by different rntr-i-e in relleotiag tha data.  The data  r,    a
the1l..ns.. onfol to derribe orders of saaittda. indiate treds, and thareterie terrain major digfereoen hetwea   -taneie..
The orf-r.o grapo are (1) the rar.. tooty groop of the sabje.t  -ton y ned (2)A  a.reetry genop with sm                  a  hIgher average Inom   than the ro....ty geap
of the nobjer   -tooty (orPt for   'High boos   oil topoct-rs  g-roo  abate "laddie trot  ilerh Attita ed Middle inst' It  hbase  bemoan of stranger
aooo-olarl  tfrlta).It th  rfrot  groop date the avrgen are ppolatior weighted erlsth-oi   ara for oath todit-to  ad  b-a  only ah.r
majority at the royrle   lafop han dare fee that irdloator.  Sit.o the toaoeof r-ntties asg the indl-too  dapandn on the -srnibnliiy at dare
erd Ia - ro  oIfore.. roaior sate he errited Ir coloring average  of ore idio.tta  to anothe.  Thtaoaee-ageaa    onl..y osata1 is ooW.atig the sola  at
ore irdoto-  or a line song the   --etY and erf-cn-   georpe.
ARUa (tho-rd aq.la.)                                                                              Proain   e  nspitoI god - tal, -. ote ,de tota  - Papalation  (tata.1
Ttota  - TotL.  notaeeo  -optiaing lard area and irard eaters; 1979 date.                         arha. ad totl1) divided by rbatt  -nstiiw   aanha- ot haspltAl bade
Agcttrltooo1 - tatineta of ngrrol-r1 are  med rerarcorilY or PgtmnetlY                            avalable In gpblit sod pri-sta generl.  ead aparialld hespirgi an  re-
fI or-P.g. pata.maht and kirohet gardn   or to lie fallow; 1979 d.ta.                           hahilitatilan  t         Hnaca . Malen   -t  asetbIn.hants permnetly stff td
by at leas.t ore phyaoia.  etrblfh-snts providing prizolpally rosta-
G7P pf  CAPITA (Url)   GiNP Par .apit. esLitmtt  at toren  mothe  prite, cl-                        di,ol tore eta earisolated.  eral  eepnal.-hevat  ireldt  health
roIte  hy o-tnoris-thod an Wocl  Hark Atlas (1970-H0 basin); 1960.                               aed  iedloa  -enter  sot p - tar ly crafted by a plsygicin  (hot by
OH   n   99dta,                                                                          medial asistant. nam, nidife. err.) ruhth  fttar in-pertrioo.t
datian end pe-ite a aireId range or nadital faLlitilat. Poe ntatin-
tENERY CONSUMPTIONt PER CAPITA - dA-a  -onoetin- of tas           -olenry (ora                       "..I pocyass ocha  hangis.lo inotle Wm.N  pinripal/ga-erl hesyltala.
and ilgotto. pecrolen-    naool         n  hY'dco-,  -1-ne  -ad goachernl ai-                     and I.oat heapiela. 1o-a  at cmal heapitel  and  edlo-I anW aent
rLtoity) it "il.logm   oftoi  qivaetparta.Plea; 1960, 1970. and 1979                              oraorr   Spat1.ini d hospitals ore itIrdd only nader total.
dora.                                                                                          Atmarn  oEr Haspital Had - Tota Iartrc  of adnisrion   to or distherges
eros hrepirals tinted by the toter of bedr.
POtULATIONl ADM VITAL STATISTICS
Tota  ?Popolartar  Mid-Yea  (thooseodo) - An of Jnly 1; 1960. 1970,. ad 1990                  HOUSING
data.                                                                                        A-eree  oe  f Hanehei  leecre. per her-ehid) - total. ora,  eatmea-
Urhan tao      -to   (peo..nt of total  - HR.ir of orhen  t.total popolro;Ahrael   aaano      onpo   rllolssesaelvn   qnert...
difeet  ainiri-r  of othe  nea  may offoot tosacabilitry of dat                           and their male  -I..  A boacter or lodger may ormay ret he inoldd In
arg oto.tLIet; 1960, 1970. ard 199H data,                                                       the h=ahald for atatistlaI pocporos.
Patireor  rlai                                                                                 Averag  rae   ofot-o  ear con-toa, rohar  Ant meal - sweagenon
Popoat.la  ir -yrao-Z2H00- -froteppoart  projattlo. ar  bated ot 19tH                          herofprsn  peMoni   l  orban,Tnd roraI otoopind  -oetio-aI
trfe1 popolarlor by aE and sax ondthir maaItyadlferiiyrts                                    dealliogs. repetiely             1iogn soclde non-parmanat stotoesed
Projerrio  paaetr t.Ll  fon mctallty loree  -tolpt  of three laval  arsn-oropied parts,
leg life e.rper..toy at bioth i-ro...alng with rntnPar taplt. In=o                          lto..n to  lctt t1111Y feeo-t of dwelllga -. total, oche, and total -
leral, and famalelfe  npeomaty nrohlierg or 77.5 yrarr.  The per.-                           Cor-tlrn-r  d-1e.wlgr dcit  alotriotep  in ljinig qoatters as Peee...t.ge
rteaft  farrilry .rr 1as  hav- thre  koala a-onirt deolro Ia                                 of total, oche, and errl1 dnallirgn re-p-ti-sly.
fsrtIlltyrtrIng-to teresa level end pate foellY pleating ptrttenanDUATIO
E.t  tob  tyin th-o . iargrad  -t  of there ritet.       nain   of Zmartty               tliTi
an.d fertility treoda for  I. prjttion porpore.                                             Ad,aidttlleeHro
irat     ......ary  oooaro-Io taio.ooy popolotio  thaco In no growh oioe                  Primar  soool -_ril, solo.end fooln - Cents itta.1  male And femal
nabIrth rote It eqo1 to the death eie.L  and nlno thn age It-oo--  to-                       erlm         of at1 ages at the primacy leve  an parootoges o at.repe.tel
eaton.. torsan.  Thin Is atbiovd orly at ro  fertiiy  -otan dat..n  to                         Primary athos-aga pepItineots;  -o 11y intlod.n ohildoa  aged 6-11
rho coLata=r  tor   of one rat  aprsdottoa rate, oboe oath genertion                           Y-ao  hot adjsred for dfflfore  lengths of primary adoration; foe
of wes  rP,toter itneif a-a-ly,  The  reLotmacy  ppoeto  so  wonli roa                               ttthlr    erra  odratian o-rolet may  -ared 199 garrett
rstisoted or the hents of the proJeorodthrtenit  of the pogolatior                              store aaepoplnore  -oo   or  boe  the offioial  hoot aga-
in tin yea  2g  and the tote of decline of fertility  rate to ceplate-                       Hoodr   tbr               1 oa, solo ad tamal  - lamentd 00 above; ..at.day
so   leve.                                                                                      od-tiattosroi-aaa  l1-t  tsar years of approved primary iratotlost.;
yea  s-tatloray popolarto  Ia reetbhd - The year wha tsetionary pogoletiot                        po-tdes gentral1,  o-tionnI, or tathettrinn   instrotions for Ppapla
aloe sillbo-rard'                                                                              osoly of 12 to tl Ye-r  of age;toerpgod-nt  taces  r  generaly
Poprlorior Deaity                                                                                   etlded.
Par ag.  a.  - Mld-y-a  popoIatlto pe  sqoaro kiloseter (lii he.ttora) of                    rotationa- nrisoe(rectat of o....rdnty) - Votationa  iatlet.tiors
.totni aa;1960. 1970 ond1979 dat,                                                              nioetehttl  indotltol. or other pog-s   hith operate indeped-
Pe s. b.arrior  ad- Coapsrri aa abov  for agiroltocti ladtlyora  deporteanr  of a_ondaryintrto,
ot1y; 1960.  9hnd17  deto,                                                                 Prol---ote   ate-I      rri-yro..ad arnay-Ttal adenta oncolld In
PorinrtaAgeleoorce(porer   Childot-  (f-id  y-etr).   alngae(15-                           primary nsd saeayl              dlldod by otec  at  -eaber  Lo the
hiyar)  and retired (65 year  and ove) an pn-tanrngo  of nld-yeor popo-                         toersponding  e-al..
intLot; 1960, 1970, ted 1980 data.                                                            Molt ltreiarvoora (geerant) - lterate adr1ta  (able to toad and wite)
Po Itolotl    Growth  ar (tlporet,     oo   Ao,-Is growth rota of total aId-                     nnporatrnof( toalnilt popolattor  god 15 year arM vr
yopogrtinto   for  950-6g. 190-,nd 1970-80.
"Po'tinto  tGMt rote (Peroat) -  chr-  a a  groeth tarot of oche  popo-                      CHfiONSPTION
lot-oafor  195-0, 1960-70, eod 1970-go."                                                     PnsangRI Corn fore thottad poosatno    P- P eg-r tact  -opit  ae
Clode Birth rote lper theostd) - a-ol Itva bIrths per rho.sod of nld-yeo.ao  atn   lass. = c-:tha  eigh   pe                                 ..n ontldes asbola-t, heorre  ned
popolation; 1960, 1970, aed 19H8  dote.                                                          .itnyvaies
clr,dn Dnth Rote (per thoonnd) - Asoo.  drohe Per the..tand  of aid-year                       Radio eRre.lvec  (roltehoonad popolattas) - All types of  -ativar  far odin
ppoyrat=os;1960, 1970, net loO  data.                                                           broadtaots toge.era Irpblit per tho~Aoed of papolatiar; eatlde  a--
Irot rprdoo to ro- AvataaerAn  of doogrer  a  ona   ill b.oe In                          1It.r..   enrrrsI  ore aad inY-t  sh..rginto  of rodto
hte ormn  rprdooriv  period if she -rp-rieoer Prenr  aga-paifir fec-                            setn was inefforbt; data fo Ierant yaas soy eat. hotsyaphi tlote
ellIry rates;-osol  fiv-yea  -voget erdiag In 1960, 1970, and 1980.                            mat -rntrin  boise   liraning.
F  nilo Pizning   - do roto    A... dosa   rhtsd) - A-na  rater  of otteptor                    TVgterg (per the..t.nd popriotion) - TVcalvn  for braedoa.st to
ofhrh-ors  de-ire   -re  ntspito  of nat ionalfany planIng Ptoea                        ger-e  plitt Per thnreand                  -prn 1o;enidet snitoodTV rIra-ear
realyclaais -00cr petet of srind wmn   Per-onege of married                                in -ntrts and Is y-ao  na registratIon of TV sans ea  In affar.
masof  htl d-barig  g  (1-6yas            bh  o    iribtoo..tro    davir.n intlwea    Clrtalation (ear theoan gaPsli2E) ,- ih-n  the a-erge cIo-
all mariod w-s  In ta-  age gxosp.                                                             oss no dal eea  inaet renpeper. deined te a periadinal
rsli-otloe devoted primarily re ro-ordig ganara  ses   It Is toaideed
F"Ol AND NtUTRITION                                                                                 to h  "daily' if it nppearr steas  f no  tIns a week,
10d- sf Food Prodoorio  Per C-pita  1969-7l-1 ) -  nero  pttpita en 1a                         CInem  A-neal Adttesdanoa r Capita per Tare - Hared on the raber of
preatonof .11 foo   --aidttis.. P_ndotias a-ldes saed ant feed ead                             likots sod   _ing tha ya,i-olding  dnissia.s to dlee-in nine
toosleada- year basin.  Co.-dlel..oova  primary gtods (e.g. sogartan                           eat mail    ia
_tonted of  gne) whiob are adilh  and o.orat.i  rorciest  (a.g. toffee and
te  a   artlodad)   AgHcgalgt  prodnotion of oat h   -torty Is barod on                 LArOR tHREr
onrlnalaveageproate  potto veghtn; 1961-65, 1970  and 1980 dare,                      Total Lahoc Porte (tha....rdo) - frorosllly ettv- partoso, isrlding
Pe  atasrp;ly of rlar.ar (peroet of orlceaia-ts) 0- Carpoted fleo                          aenet fotte  art..  nespltyad hot  -nloding hotneivet, stadeitt, at.
eror,gy eovne of ren ferd sapplies avilable Is  -strey per oeplea                              .toeing gapaltion of oil ages.   afLiintl-  In  antos tonetries are
Petday.  Aral,ble sapplio  tapOa  d-net~ pcodtttte., lapecsloo                                 so.  t toqarelabI; 1960. 2970 end 19ff dare.
e-prrteno  ohneg. Intrt.   Ore N   rppli-o   -.lde arinal toe.                                 F-ed,.Pma. frer-t    P-1ral  labso foore An p-ntterga at total labar fore.
q-aein  ord It food poeressieg, and looser In Itadtribatto.Hyta                                 gtoeo              t  -i labor fort --In farmIng, foeratry, hentlng and
setorericare   by PAt haa..d or physlloltl  eds for norma   -ttt                          tib      a   aoteog  of total Lhec forte; 1960. 1970 and 19t0 dare
drM    tihat h r=ridorlog ovoratltaeao    body  eightr., ag                                    Irdonrey Iptlerso) - tahoe fort  In nirtg  noatot fn-ntantoi.g
and ntdlri.     oriont o~f popaletol-r,no  alloing 10l ya      r-o rarer at                      ad  le_teiiry    otec and gas at peoroeag o.  f  rtal Ether forte;
hooteheld loya; 1I6-6. 1971 and 1977 data.                                                       1060. 1970 a'td1980 data.
PnroarPt.n noyply ofIoon(or  Ee day) - Pro tab   -tore     of per t-pita                       P:tl    :at       L.Ht  ipeort) - tota.1 sale, and fesel  - Pertleiprtt  o
ret sapply of food pe  dy. tIenpply of food inrn df d.  abate.  Ha-                            atrivity corer are   peted no total, male, and fEmale labor fatones
qotro=tnr  for oil -ootrtt otbaliohed by USDA0 providefor rArls                                poroaneges of total, sole and female popolotl..of at all eeteapsorivly;
al.ooototf 60 g-s  of total poenin Per day  rd 70 grsof onina  ned                             1960. 1970. ned l9A0 data.  Those te  hs...d or ILO's peelairaptlan rates
Poise pretmix, of wlh10 icaa ohead he anImal protror.  Thon-aa-                                ref Laring ege-r -.. arotore of the popaleta  and long elan toned.  A
ondrarn 1Iow thastihre..otf 7   lgc of t.tto 1a to-ton-da23gEln of                             fererintIa---ro  feomrationlstrn
triani protaio a  at avErag  for the sorld, propotaf by tAO to the Third                     ftreit flepedrt-y Ratio  -ROnLo of papolarto   andat 15 end 65 ardra
World Food larvy; 1961-65  19 nd1977 dat.L.                                  dto the total  blao  fot.-
Pero.Pt.yr oco-   IatoplyfieaIl andrat- Prrin rPpply of fooddo
ctvd  ronaratl  nd Prio   inge    e  day; 191-5  197  ed  9-idta-d99by2BITfliIO
Chil  (aas  -C)loahrt   reronn)-Aosldsb   o   hradI                                       Pa-teetag  or PrIvate born   (both In oath and fkrd)-ttevdb  rihet
age gerop 14 Yea.n, to ohildeor Ir thio age groop;foe soa  develping ret                       5 p-rtent  rirhese 2H pero-t. peoeet 70 peroert. and goarest 40 perret
trier dtra derived fton  lif  t rbles; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data,                               of hesonha1da.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARITY GROUPS
Life Epretorcy at B itrh (year) - Average tote   at year  of life  -mistig                     The frlos.ing   at-tsta    ArercL     ppotas          re   of paveetylva,
ar blirth; 1960. 1070 and 198t data.                                                           ead ahoold be Itatrprotad  irh  - aaderable atio..
Irf_aneM lt.elity late fore thonrd) - da-l deaths of isfants  nda- ore yea                     Etiated Alesltr  Pert  Intan-  keel (0591 ec tagira); -laba  and total!
o:f age e,     htadlv  brh;.1960. 1970 so  If  dare                                               bmL.r Pe."t   icslvlIn thee inslevl hals,  hi   a nisint
darn   SoHt.  aerteos   f  an io  - tial sene  ea  tor1 -  oN-                               rorrltineallyodeqata diIet   . gins     ..setla1 so-toed raqairesne  in eat
her of peple (total, arha, ant cora) trthcesahrots ta safe                                     ef.rdabln.
sore  supply (-inadee treated a              -rae atr  or ostoattd bat srtoaiemo ted         raomtedRltIeP-vee    las    keel ff(    a   egt)-ahe   a   o -i"
srratasthat f ro  protatrd he-rhles.  poinge. asd asiar    u)  s                       Csa   alr  getry  Ioo  laa  in oe-ehld oIaeaeprape
perrarages of thet   eperl            popolaits.  in on aehn are  a pob1o                      personal Isoa  at the. tstrey.  Urban laaI Is darlwd fran the total
feontrin or   sdposIt bted ret mar  that 200S eaters fr   a henn  may he                       level with adjemast tee higher nest at lIving he sha  ara..
-otad.red no bring wLehir resnble  --ne  at that h-se 1 ToralSea                             Etat-mad Peesit1o, salon A soize  Penn   Isas =           wi  fstael-ar
reaonble atn .      mai .d Imply etet the h--ssife or  -ia-  at the heeheld                    adMea    Par.tne   atppIs_a  fr    sa             1sa) shear  "bsLe
da ear here te sypd A dplaptaprtoaata peer at the day  Is fteehing the                          ee
nA-e Is  Dotr   ie.-e  (Ma-at of poesntLIn) - teta,Ischa, end  -ntl 
Mater. at peagin (total, aehen  ad  -rea) seod by estee     diepee  an
per-alaga  or theft osopativ  PpeplsetLa.  Hatter  dlepee  may isinda
the nalintian s-r diepeaL, with or  iteilt tasra,of ba  en-nt
art w=nI-eter by water-hers syst-   e the  -e  at pie gria  and alt-
P2ea1atins roe PEalal    - PPagotirla  dIilded by   tea  g-stfiis phyal-                                                              Bnnasd   enia  tiar  Malaise
rins  qehif ldfa         matinl.  enha  at nelveesity Iawa.                                                                     aonemi tA-lysie and Prejatian  Dapeetst
".eaai.. ea ,MranePaea  - PaeLattee dIvIde  hr 'sbae at gpating                                                                                 Map 1362



- 25                                                     ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET
(in billions of current CFAF)
Estimates              Projections
1976     1977      1978      1979     1980      198'      1982     1983      1984     1985
A. National Accounts
1. GDP                             107.0    123.5    136.7    150.9    168.4    188.8    216.2    251.4    295.2    348.4
2. Consumption                     102.4    121.8    136.2    154.0    191.4    201.3    237.5    256.6    292.4    341.4
3. Gross Investment                 12.9      14.4     15.0      14.6      11.8     17.3      18.5     30.5      36.8      38.0
4.   Public Investment               8.9       9.2      9.4      11.5       8.5     12.3      13.3     24.7      29.4      30.0
5.   Private Investment              4.0       5.2      5.6       3.1       3.3      5.0       5.2      5.8       7.4       8.0
6. Domestic Savings                  4.6       1.7      0.5      -3.1    -23.0    -12.5    -21.3       -5.2       2.8       7.0
7. Exports, incl. NFS               25.4      32.5     30.5      30.0     34.3      37.35    39.0      43.7      49.0      55.0
8. Imports, incl. NFS               33.7      45.2     45.0      47.7      69.1     67.1      78.8     79.4      83.0      86.0
9. GDP (in mil. current $)         457.3    502.9    605.9    709.4    797.0    694.9    617.7    718.3    843.4    995.4
10. GDP deflator: Index              90.1    100.0    107.5    122.3    141.9    162.8    185.6    211.6    241.2    275.0
11. GDP at 1977 const. prices       118.7    123.5    127.2    123.4    118.7    116.C    116.5    118.8    122.4    126.7
12. GDP growth per year               3.5       4.0      3.0      -3.0     -3.9      -2.2       0.4      2.0       3.0       3.5
B. Sector Output
Value Added                         107.0    123.5    136.7    150.9    168.4    188.8    216.2    251.4    295.2    348.4
1. Agriculture                      40.6     46.8      49.9      55.8     63.4      70.5      75.6     86.5    100.3    115.4
2. Mining                            8.8       9.0     13.2      13.0      13.1     11.5      12.1     12.5      14.3      17.8
3. Manufacturing                     6.2      7.6      10.8      11.8      11.4     13.2      16.9     19.9      23.3      28.4
4. Water and Electricity             0.7      0.9       0.8       1.0       1.2      1.9       2.4      3.1       3.7       4.6
5. Construct. & Public Works         4.6       5.4      4.9       6.4      6.1       7.0       9.8     13.0      13.6      14.5
6. Commerce                         16.1     18.6      20.1      21.2     24.6      27.3      32.3     37.9      45.3      54.3
7. Transport and Telecomm.           4.9       5.0      4.6       4.4       5.6      6.8       8.5     10.9      14.3      17.9
8. Public services                  14.1      16.9     18.0      22.0      25.4     30.9      35.3     37.8      43.3      49.5
9. Private services                  5.2       6.1      6.2       7.2      7.7       8.6       9.3     12.6      16.0      20.8
10. Indirect taxes                    5.8       7.2      8.1       8.1      9.9      11.1      14.0     17.2      21.1      25.2
(net of subsidies)
C. Sectoral Output in Percentages
1. Agriculture                      37.9     37.9      36.5      37.0     37.6      37.3     35.0      34.4      34.0     33.1
2. Mining                            8.2      7.3       9.7       8.6      7.8       6.1       5.6      5.0       4.8       5.1
3. Manufacturing                     5.8       6.2      7.9       7.8      6.8       7.0       7.8      7.9       7.9       8.2
4. Water and Electricity             0.7      0.7       0.6       0.7      0.7       1.0       1.1      1.2       1.3       1.3
5. Construct. & Public Works         4.3      4.4       3.6       4.2      3.6       3.7       4.5      5.2       4.6       4.2
6. Commerce                         15.0      15.1     14.7      14.0      14.6     14.5      14.9     15.1      15.3      15.6
7. Transport and Telecomm.           4.6       4.0      3.4       2.9       3.3      3.6       3.9      4.3       4.8       5.1
8. Public services                  13.2      13.7     13.2      14.6      15.1     16.4      16.3     15.0      14.7      14.2
9. Private services                  4.9       4.9      4.5       4.8      4.6       4.6       4.3      5.0       5.4       6.0
10. Indirect taxes                    5.4       5.8      5.9       5.4      5.9       5.9       6.5      6.8       7.1      7.2
(net of subsidies)
-Total                              100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
February 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEET - CONTINUED
(in billions of current CFAF)
Estimated  Program
1976     1977       1978      1979      1980      1981      1982      1983
D. Public Finance
1. Budget Revenues                   13.6      16.8      16.7      20.2      21.7      24.3      33.5       36.7
Of which: Tax receipts           (13.0)   (16.0)   (16.3)   (19.4)   (20.9)   (22.5)   (30.9)   (34.4)
2. Current Expenditures              17.5      21.0      22.7      27.6      29.4      32.0      36.4      35.4
Of which: Interest on debt        (0.1)    (0.3)    (0.2)        (-)      (1.0)     (0.7)     (0.9)     (1.5)
3. Capital Expenditures               1.4        1.9      2.2       0.4        1.9       3.0       3.8       8.9
Of which: Amortization on
external debt          (0.4)    (0.8)    (0.8)    (0.1)    (0.9)    (0.7)    (0.7)    (5.0)
4. Budgetary Deficit                 -5.3      -6.1      -8.2      -7.8      -9.6    -10.7       -6.7      -7.6
5. Financing                          5.3       6.1       8.2       7.8       9.6       10.7       6.7       7.6
Domestic                           3.2       3.7       5.5       0.7       1.6       t.3       0.8       3.0
Banking System                   0.6       0.5       2.7       0.3       1.4       3.8       1.4       3.0
Central Bank                  (_)       (0.5)    (1.2)    (0.2)        (-)      (0-7)   (-0.2)      (2-7)
IMF Facil. & Trust Fund    (0.6)         (-)      (1.5)    (0.1)    (1.8)    (4.1)    (0.6)    (0.3)
Commercial Banks               (-)       (-)       (-)       (-)    (-0.4)   (-1.0)    (t.0)         (_)
Treasury                         2.6       2.4      -0.7      -0.2       0.6       0.1       0.4
Arrears                           -        0.8       3.2       0.8      -0.4      -2.6      -1.0
Other                             -         -        0.3        -         -         -         -         -
Foreign                            2.1       2.4       2.7       8.2       8.0       9.4       5.9       4.6
Grants                           1.8       1.6       0.4       5.8       7.4       5.6       5.0       4.5
Loans                             -         -        0.6       1.4       0.6       3.8       0.9       0.1
Arrears                          0.3       0.8       1.4       0.8                  -         -         -
Other                             -         -        0.3       0.2        -         -         -         -
Memorandum Items (external debt)
1. Amortization due                                                           4.8       3.5       4.7       4.7
2. Debt relief                                                                  -       2.7        1.3       3.2
3. Arrears (net)                                                              3.9         -        2.3      -3.5
E. Monetary Survey
1. Money and Quasi-Money             19.3      20.5      22.5      27.1      36.6      45.3      48.7      54.9
2. Domestic Credit                   22.6      25.5      30.2      27.4      37.2      43.1      45.9      52.8
Credit to Public Sector          9.7      10.8      12.0      11.8    (13.7)   (18.7)   (15.8)   (18.8)
Credit to Private Sector        12.9      14.7      18.2      15.6    (23.5)   (24.4)   (30.1)   (34-0)
3. Money and Quasi-Money as
% of GDP                        18.0      16.9      16.9      19.0      21.7      24.0      22.5      21.8
4. Domestic Credit as % of GDP    21.1         21.0      22.7       19.2     22.1       22.8     21.2       21.0
February 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Estimates      Program
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981    1982    1983
Exports, incl. F'S                                        108.5    132.3    135.2    141.0    162.3    137.3   111.4   124.9
Imports, incl. NFS                                      -144.0   -184.0   -199.5   -224.3   -327.0   -247.0  -225.1  -226.9
Resource Balance                                         -35.5    -51.7    -64.3    -83.3   -164.7   -109.7  -113.7  -102.0
Factor Services (net)                                     -3.4    -13.4       -1.8       0.0      30.3      37.9    30.5    29.2
Net Investment Income                                   -1.7      -1.6      -5.3      -2.4      -1.4       5.2     5.4      2.9
Interest on Public Debt                                 -0.4      -1.2      -0.9      -0.5      -0-5      -1.8    -2.0    -4-3
Other                                                   -1.3    -10.6        4.4       2.9      32.2      34.5    27.1    30.6
Current Transfers (private)                               -4.3      -0.8      -8.0    -12.2    -18.9    -14.0   -11.7   -12.9
Current Account Balance (excl. public transfers)         -43.2    -65.9    -74.1    -95.5   -153.3    -85.8   -94.9   -85.7
Public Transfers (net)                                    46.2      35.4      51.9      91.2    101.3      82.1    65.1    65.7
Private Capital (net)                                      19.2      6.9       7.1      35.7      16.1       6.3     3.4      2.9
Public N & L Term Loans (net)                              15.4     19.5      20.8      13.2      42.6      23.5    15.7    14.6
Disbursements                                          (17.1)   (22.8)   (24.4)   (13.6)   (46.9)   (26.1)  (17.7)  (19.4)
Repayments                                             (-1.7)   (-3.3)   (-3.6)   (-0.4)   (-4-3)   (-2.6)  (-2.0)  (-4.8)
SDR and Trust Fund                                          1.9      1.8       8.5       1.9       2.4       1.8       -       -
Short Term Capital                                        -8.5      13.0    -14.6       -1.4       9.0     -4.8       1.7    -2.9
Errors and Omissions                                     -15.2      -5.8      -9.8    -21.6       -5.3    -14.6      4.7       -
Overall Balance (Increase in Reserves +)                  15.8       4.9    -10.2       23.5      12.8       8.5    -4.3    -5.4
Level of oet foreign assets (end of year)                  4.0      -4.6    -10.9       15.3      30.5      33.2    18.6       -
Rate of Exchange                                         234.0    245.6    225.6    212.7    211.3    271.7   350.0   350.0
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(in millions of US current dollars)
Estimates      Program
1976     1977      1978      1979      1980      1981    1982    1983
Exports, f.o.b.
Diamonds                                                14.5      22.4      35.0      36.7      38.3     33.1    25.4    28.0
Coffee                                                  18.4      44.0      27.9      29.1     34.1      23.6    24.9    28.3
Timber                                                  18.4      18.7      21.3      26.3      34.1     31.3    20.9    21.1
Cotton                                                  21.4      19.5      11.1      10.3      18.0     18.4      9.4    14.0
Tobacco                                                  5.6       7.7       6.6       4.7       5.2      5.2      3.1      3.4
Other                                                    4.2       4.1      20.8      24.0     25.1      15.5    19.7    20.3
Total                                                   82.5    116.4    122.7    131.1    154.8    127.1   103.4   115-.1
Share in % of Total
Diamonds                                                17.6      19.2      28.5      28.0      24.7     26.0    24.6    24.3
Coffee                                                  22.3      37.8      22.7      22.2     22.0      18.6    24.1    24.6
Timber                                                  22.3      16.1      17.4      20.0      22.0     24.6    20.2    18.3
Cotton                                                  25.9      16.8       9.0       7.9      11.6     14.5      9.1    12.2
Tobacco                                                  6.8       6.6       5.4       3.6       3.4       4.1     3.0      3.0
Other                                                    5.1       3.5      17.0      18.3      16.2     12.2    19.1    17.6
Total                                                  100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31  1981
(in millions of US dollars)
r                  Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                          239.2
Public Debt, incl. undisbursed                         265.7
IBRD/IDA LENDING, December 31, 1982
(in millions of US dollars)
Outstanding and Disbursed                               35.3
Undisbursed                                             22.1
Total                                                   57.4
DEBT SERVICE RATIO, 1982
Public Debt, excluding arrears                           3.6%
Public Debt, including arrears                          12.6%
February 1983



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of March 31, 1983) 1/
Credit                                                    Amount (US$ million) 2/
Number       Year      Borrower          Purpose          Total    Undisbursed
Five Credits have been fully disbursed.                    28.7
894-CA      1979          CAR           Livestock          2.5           1.6
1074-CA      1980          CAR          Third Highway
Supl. Financing    4.5           0.2
1150-CA      1981          CAR          Technical Ass't.   4.0            1.9
1258-CA      1982          CAR          Highways IV        18.0          18.0
TOTAL    57.7          21.7
- of which has been repaid:         0.4
- now outstanding                  57.3
B.  Statement of IFC Investments
Nil.
)
1/   An $11.0 million Credit for a second education project was approved
by the Board on May 10, 1983.
2/   Less cancellations.



- 29 
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 847-CA        Highways III Project:  US$15.5 Millio7 Credit of
November 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  April 4,
1979;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982 (closed).
Credit No. 1074-CA       Supplementary Financing for Highways III Project:
3.5 Million SDRs (US$4.5 million) Credit of
December 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 22,
1981; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project consisted of the reconstruction and paving of the
Bangui-Bossembele road (145 km), the construction of a two-lane bridge over
the M'Bali River, and the provision to the Directorate-General of Public Works
of consultants' services for engineering and supervision works. Civil works
on the road and the bridge have been completed satisfactorily. Some comple-
mentary works remain to be completed. The Supplementary Credit and supple-
mentary financing from the Kuwait Fund were needed to make up the shortfall of
funds which arose largely because of the currency exchange rate fluctua-
tions. The Government has complied substantially with the covenants of the
Third Highway agreement. A project completion report has been issued.
Credit No. 894-CA        Livestock I Project:  US$2.5 Million Credit of
April 10, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1980;
Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The project was designed to develop livestock production and improve
nutrition and the living conditions of one of the poorest segments of the
CAR's population, the M'Bororo herdsmen. It consisted of four main compo-
nents: (a) provision of animal health services in the western half of the
country; (b) strengthening the Government's Livestock Service; (c) introduc-
tion and testing of simple pasture management techniques, based on herdsmen's
associations in a pilot zone; and (d) training. After two years of project
implementation, the initial approach failed. Despite improved training,
better transport facilities, new equipment and the availability of drugs, the
veterinary service was not motivated to visit herders and distribute drugs.
Topia, the site for the pilot range improvements scheme, proved badly selected
because it was atypical and permitted no contact with traditional M'bororo
herdsmen. The Bouar College produced veterinary assistants for a civil ser-
vice which was already overcrowded and did not need additional staff. In
October 1982, the project was redesigned and now has the following components:
1/   This note is designed to inform the Executive Directors about the
progress of projects which are being implemented and to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action taken to remedy
them. It should be read in this sense and with the understanding that it
does not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project implementation.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
(a) Animal Health. The National Association of Central African Livestock
Producers (ANEC) now sells animal health drugs. The project will
strengthen ANEC's administrative capacity through financing a head-
quarters building and an expatriate financial controller.
(b) Field Training. A mobile training unit will be established to hold
simple animal health courses in the field for the sons of livestock
owners, enabling them to treat their own animals.
(c) Formal Training. Upon acceptance at the Bouar College, students will
no longer automatically become Government officials, but they will
receive scholarships. They will be employed by the Government's
livestock service only if the service needs additional staff.
(d) Pasture Improvement. A new site was chosen for the pasture
improvement scheme.
The Credit Agreement is being amended accordingly.
Credit No. 1150-CA       Technical Assistance Project: 3.3 Million SDRs (US$4.0
million) Credit of July 16, 1981; Effectiveness
Date: October 22, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
The project consists of (a) project preparation and start-up activi-
ties for the Fourth Highway Project and the Integrated Rural Development
Project in the Cotton Zone; (b) execution of sector studies in the forestry
sector and the diamond sector; (c) four resident technical advisers, including
a project coordinator/economic adviser, a legal expert, an external-debt
expert, and an agricultural programs coordinator; (d) an organizational review
of the civil service; and (e) further studies, training, consultants' ser-
vices, and related activities for which a need is identified during project
implementation.
(a) Project preparation. The preparation of the Fourth Highway Project
was begun under an advance from the Project Preparation Facility
which was automatically refinanced when the technical assistance
project became effective. Project preparation of the Fourth Highway
Project continued under the technical assistance project until the
Credit for the Fourth Highway Project became effective on January 24,
1983. Field work for a follow-up feasibility study for the Inte-
grated Rural Development Project in the Cotton Zone was undertaken in
October-November 1981, and the final report was published in April
1982.
(b) Sector Studies. Field work for the forestry sector study was
undertaken in January-February 1982, and the final report was
published in May 1982. A final selection of the consultants to
undertake the diamond sector study was made in December 1982, and
field work began in March 1983.



- 31 -                        ANNEX Ii
Page 4 of 4
(c) Resident technical advisers. The legal expert arrived in September
1981 and acted as project coordinator until March 1, 1982, when the
project coordinator arrived. The agricultural programs coordinator
started work in Bangui in early April 1982, and the external-debt
expert began work in Bangui in June 1982.
(d) Review of the Civil Service. The Canadian Ecole Nationale d'Admini-
stration Publique was chosen to carry out this review and undertook
field work in the CAR in May-June 1982. Their first-phase report
appeared in October 1982. Their second visit to the C.A.R. was in
November 1982; the report on that phase is under preparation. Their
terms of reference have been modified at the Government's request in
order to provide immediate assistance in the task of reducing the
size of the civil service.
(e) Further studies, training, consultants' services, etc. Studies of
the CAR's banking system and public-enterprise system were carried
out in May 1982. A study of the major transport corridors from the
CAR to the sea was carried out in late 1982.
Due to the later-than-expected recruitment of some of the resident
experts, the project may not be completed by June 30, 1984, as originally
foreseen. Disbursements are somewhat behind schedule, but most of the Credit
has been committed. The project appears to be accomplishing its goals; the
experts, in particular, have already made substantial contributions to the
Government's reconstruction efforts.
Credit No. 1258-CA       Highways IV Project:  US$18.0 Million Credit of
July 29, 1982; Effectiveness Date: January 24, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
The project consists of the rehabilitation of 1,217 km of gravel
roads and the reconstruction of two already paved roads (108 km), all part of
the priority network, the provision of equipment and buildings to support road
maintenance activities, the provision of consultants for construction supervi-
sion, maintenance, studies, and planning, and the training of national person-
nel.  Preparation has been completed (financed first with funds from a PPF
advance and then under Credit 1150-CA, the Technical Assistance Project). An
international competitive tender has recently been successfully completed to
r         choose the contractor for the IDA-financed rehabilitation components, and bids
for the rehabilitation and reconstruction parts of the project were opened in
December 1982. The project is being cofinanced by France (FAC), the Kuwait
Fund, the OPEC Fund, the African Development Fund, and the Development Bank of
the Central African States (BDEAC).



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:          Two years
(b)  Project prepared by:                        Nathan Associates
(Consultants, U.S.)
(c) Date of first IDA mission to
consider the project:                       June 1980
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  June 1982
(e)  Negotiations completed:                     April 14, 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1983
Section II.   Special IDA Implementation Actions
A PPF advance totalling US$1 million equivalent has been approved to
help finance training of rural extension workers, ordering of inputs (insecti-
cides and fertilizers) for the 1983/84 crop year, and establishment of a moni-
toring and evaluation unit (para. 36).
Section III. Special Conditions
The Government and SOCADA have provided assurances on the following
principal items:
(a) experienced and qualifed staff would be appointed to the positions
of Project Manager (Director of SOCADA) and Project Coordinator
for the duration of the project, on terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to IDA (para. 53);
(b) during the project period, no new investments would be undertaken
by SOCADA outside the project area without prior approval by IDA;
support services provided by SOCADA in these areas would remain at
current (1982/83) levels, both in terms of extension coverage and
input distribution; and SOCADA would not declare any dividend or
distribution of profits during the project period (para. 55);
(c) subsidies on seasonal inputs for cotton (fertilizer and
pesticides) would be progressively reduced, over the project
period, and the producer price of seed cotton would be pro-
gressively increased, both according to schedules acceptable to
IDA (para. 56); and



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  seasonal inputs would be provided to farmers on short-term credit,
with a mark-up of 9 percent on the prices to farmers, and ox-drawn
equipment would be provided to farmers on medium-term credit of up
to three years and carrying an interest rate of 9 percent p.a.
(para. 57).
Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit would be:
(a) the establishment of the Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(                        and the Project Coordination Unit (paras. 50 and 51);
(b) the signature of a satisfactory Convention between the Government
and SOCADA (para. 53);
(c)  the signature of a satisfactory Protocole  B.etween SOCADA and
ACADOP (para. 53);
(d) the transfer of all the MAE's extension staff in the cotton zone
to SOCADA's regular labor force (para. 54);
(e) the signature of satisfactory contracts for the project
coordinator, the monitoring and evaluation specialist, and the
director of the production department (para. 58);
(f) the signing and fulfillment of effectiveness conditions of the
grant and loan agreements with the other cofinanciers (para. 60);
(g) the establishment of a Special Account and a Project Account (with
an initial deposit by the Government of CFAF 120 million) (para.
63); and
(h) the submission by SOCADA of its audited 1981/82 financial
statements (para. 65).
f



- 34 -
ANNEX IV
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIXG BY COMPONENT AND EXPENDITURE CATEGORY
-------- Total -------  ------------------------------------------------ CFAF Millio -                --------------------------------
Comoponet end Expendituro                     CFAF (=)        USS (in   Govnmnmenti/    SOCADA         Farners          IDA          FED          FAC            CCCE         bADEA
A.  Pro ject M.anaFmnnt Unit
Vehicles                                  4.9        0.02              -              -           -              4.9
Operating Cost                           30.4        0.09              1.4            -            -            29.0
Local Perconnel                           2.3        0.01              0.3            2.0                        -
TA & Con-ultants e Seoices             189.7        0.52              -              -            -           199.7
Sub-Total A                        227.3        0.64              1.7             2.0         -           223.6
B. Production and Eoteonion Services
Buildings                                55.2        0.16             17.7            -           -              -            -             -            37.5            -
Vehicles and Equipment                 473.4         1.73              -              -           -              -            -             -           473.4
Operating Coot                          752.7        2.12             99.3          184.3         -              -            -             -           469.1
Local Personnel                      2,960.3         8.34         1,671.6         1,288.7                                                   -             -
Technical Assistance                 1,046.5         2.95              -              -           -              -            -           526.5         520.0
Sub-Total B                      5,288.1       14.90          1,788.6        1,473.0          -              -            -          526.5       1,500.0
C. Applied Ronearch
Buildings                                24.7        0.07              7.9            -            -             _             _           16.8           -
Vehicles and Eqnipnent                   27.4        0.08              -              -            -             -            -            27.4
Operating Cost                          195.7        0.55             17.7            -            -             -            -           178.0
Local Personnel                         248.1        0.70             32.2          215.9          -             -            -             _             -              _
Technical Assistance                   491.5         1.39              -                          _ -                         _          491.5
Sub-Total C                        997.4        2.79             57.8           215.9         -              -            -          713.7
D. Seed Prodsction Unit
Buildings                                11.3        0.03              3.6            -           -              7.7           -            _             -
Vehicles and Equip-ont                   58.4        0.16              -              -            -            58.4
Operating Cost                          130.9        0.37             11.0            -            -           119.9
Local Personnel                         186.5        0.53              -              -         186.5
Sub-Tstal D                        387.1         1.09            14.6             -         186.5         186.0
0. Training
Vehicles and iquipment                   92.8        0.26              -              -            -            92.8
Operating Coot                          154.5        0.44             17.7            -            -           136.8
Lecal Personnel                          88.5        0.25             10.2           78.3                        -
TA and Consulta-ts Services             309.5        0.87              -               -           -           309.5
Sub-Total E                        645.3         1.82            27.9            78.3         -           539.1
F. Feeder Reads Coit
Buildings                                24.3        0.07              7.8            -            -             -           16.5
Vehicles and Equipment                  254.2        0.72              -              -            -             -          254.2
Operating Cent                       1,109.1         3.12            147.4            -            -             -          961.7
LoIal Peosnonel                        384.2         1.08             43.1          341.1          -             -            -             -             -
Technical Ansistance                    348.9        0.98              -              -            -             -          348.9
Sub-Total F                      2,120.7        5.97            198.3           341.1        --              -       1,581.3
G. M & E Uoit
Buildings                                34.0        0.10             10.9            -           _             23.1          -             -             -
Vehicles and gquipment                   30.2        0.09              -              -            -            30.2           -
Operating Cost                           54.6        0.15              7.3            -            -            47.3           -
Local Personnel                         167.5        0.47             19.9          147.t                        -            -
Technical Assistance                    108.6        0.38              -              -           -            108.6           -
Sub-Total G                        394.9         1.11            38.1           147.6         -           209.2           -            -              -
H. Animal Traction
Buildings                               40.0         0.11             12.8            -           -              -           27.2
Vehicles and Equipoent                   74.7        0.21                                   -                                74.7
Operating Cast                           33.0        0.09              2.9            -           -              -           30.1
Local Personnel                          48.1        0.14              5.8           42.7         -              -            -             _             -              _
Sub-Tetal E                        195.8        0.55             21.5            42.5         -              -          132.0          -              -
I. Village Water SUPPlY
Vehicles and Equipment                   92.6        0.26              -              -           -              -            -             -             -             92.6
Operating Cost                          475.3        1.34             68.6            -           -              -            -             _             _            406.7
Local Personnel                          61.9        0.17             61.9            -
Consultants Services                    181.2        0.51              -              -           -              -            -             -             -            181.2
Sub-Total I                        811.0        2.28            130.5             -           -             -             -            -              -           680.5
J. Ginning Factory
Equipnent                               441.6        1.24              -              -            -             -             -            -              -           441.6
K. Maintenance W-ombchop
Buildings                                59.5        0.17             19.0            -           -              -            -             -             -             40.5
Vehicles aod Equipment                   34.8        0.10              -              -            -             -            -             -             -             34.8
Sub-Total K                         94.3        0.27             19.0             -           -             -             -            -              -             75.3
L. Inputs
-  Increc.eneal                      1,044.4         2.94              -              -           -         1,044.4           -             -
-  Non-Incremenotal                  4,044,4        11.39              -            211.0_   1,860.0        1,482.7         340.7        15O,0
Sub-Total L                      5,088.8       14.33               -            211.0    1,860.0        2,527.L         340.7        150.0            -
M.  Finannial Rehabilitation 5OCADA           1,500.0         4.20              -              -          -              -            -            _           1,500.0            -
TOTAL COSTS                         18,182.3        51.19         2,298.0         2,511.2    2,046.5        3,685.0       2,054.0       1,390.2       3,000.O        1,197.4
US$ THOUSANDS                       51,200.0                      6,450.0         7,000.0    5,750.0       10,400.0       5,800.0      3,900.0        8,500.0        3,400.0



_____                   _ _________    ____--____                                     _ __ _    __________                                  ____       ___ __                    ____           __       I BR D 16066R
- ~ ~ ~   ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ B                                              --A                             20AR  1g8 
CEN FRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                             -                                                            -
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICA/NE
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                     To.                                                             TJDELE                                    )
PRaET DE- D-vELOPPEMENT RUPAL EN ZONE COTONN/ERE                                                                                N'Ef E
D                                                                                                          (J
,T, 34 ...do,                                                                                      BAMINGlJI   BANGORAN
HAUTE KOTTO
-y ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     -
0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Rtnoo                                                                     __    GRIBINGUIL
E NOMIQUE
~~     -~    eIAGA  AI  ORC)
,)  ,/                                                                                                                                                                                     _t
B(D~~~NGGA  Sooca        t~~~~~~~                                          BURIKA
KK>Ds E
IreseAss-t-ne Z-oes
lb.                                            Z-ons d'Acrtons /trensv .
___________________________________       ___ -- _-' _-- 9- f\                       APcApphie  R--otb -r Seed Msl,pl h-o-
t' _ 2 C H  A  D                                                     f                               S U D A N  G,ienes  r I<ouro  QetMnar
S U DcAcN oo  'oig                                      Coct,e de For,,uoc
-outs PrmBcAS/esS                                                                                                                KOTTO                R
Z                                                                                   Rvr                                                     Z      A       I                                    R      E
0     (                        J CE   ARAI.  ARl;;fN    REPlPBLIC          -        L-mq Soc Reg       o   T-is rs                                                                   ,i- bs pr b                                        r;
Rgi,o,na1 Center WsU I--' 
Al .tt~~OO    Ceorroo Rdgroooox    BA~~NGUJI            so re,p,r,s "nIic isle It 1ttcbr
Dbsp-t-eer Limit                                          Tbo bsr Isaiii -se -rt lie
<                      ,                                                            Z- Iolmsttp det  Dgp-ortemo-s                             bo-sdares -Ooot on Irt s -If p
RJ                                                                                  ls_so^  I  _ s _   Internai  [onal  P o u n d aties       as r/lf So t i hrioW  part ofi  t hes.   ely   L      S O           100            150   K n
\f*  er)                                   Zsrst,tpe /5tOPOOtiO5tOiOS                                ;iib~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pgi-oit ti tbe Iopal,tstOO of  L10         --L --------
Z  A   I  R   E                  -o ss trirtory orny05em nott                                                                                                                              -  -y
(/PEOPLE'S,                                                                                                                          i ,cept--se sos-h b-oirbo,-
-  aJ  REPUBLf                                                                                 18t
OF THE CONGO.                                     _____               ____._I___                                                 __     _   _ __  ___



