Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4187-CA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 11, 1983
Western Africa Region
Agriculture 2
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00                            = CFAF 355
CFAF 1,000,000                     = US$2,816
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilometer                        = 0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)           = 0.30 square miles
1 hectare                          = 2.47 acres
1 kilogram                         = 2.2 pounds
I metric ton (t)                   = 2.205 pounds
FISCAL YEARS
Government                         January 1 to December 31
SOCADA                             November 1 to October 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACADOP    Agence Centrafricaine pour le Developpement de 1'Ouham Pende
BDEAC     Banque de Developpement des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale
CAADE     Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de 1'Etat
CFDT      Compagnie FrancaIse pour le Developpement des F"bres Textiles
CIIMMYT    International Center for Maize and Wheat Improvement (Mexico)
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation et de Perrquation des Produits Agricoles
DGTP      Direction Generale des Travaux Publics
GIR       Groupements d'Interets Ruraux
IDESSA    Institut des Savanes (Bouake)
IITA      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
INRVT     Institut National de Recherches Textiles et Vivrieres
IRCT      Institut de Recherches sur le Coton et les Fibres Textiles
MAE       Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
ONCPA     Office.National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PMEU      Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
SOCADA    Societ6 Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole
WARDA     West Africa Rice Development Association



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
I.       BACKGROUND                                                Page No.
Project Original                                         1
The National Economy                                     1
Agriculture in the Economy                               2
Rural Development Policy                                 2
Major Sectoral Institutions                              3
Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector            5
II.      THE COTTON ZONE
Physical Resources                                       6
Economic and Social Infrastructure                       6
Human Resources                                          7
Agricultural Activities                                  7
Agricultural Support Services                           10
III.     THE PROJECT
Objectives and Summary Description                      13
Detailed Features                                       14
Strengthening of SOCADA's Extension Service         14
Extension Staff Training                            15
Agronomic Packages                                  15
Animal Traction                                     16
Applied Agronomic Research                          17
Seed Multiplication                                 17
Feeder Roads                                        18
Rural Water Supply                                  19
Ginning Factories                                   20
Transport Maintenance Facilities                    20
Monitoring and Evaluation                           20
Project Coordination Unit                           21
Studies and Preparation of a Possible              21
Follow Up Project
IV.      PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Overall Structure                                       21
Implementation                                          22
Input Distribution and Credit Terms                     23
Staffing and Technical Assistance                       24
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
V.       COSTS AND FINANCING                                        Page No.
Cost Estimates                                           25
Proposed Financing                                       26
Pre-Financing                                            29
Procurement                                              30
Disbursement                                             30
Financial Control, Audit and Reporting Requirements  31
VI.      PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER RETURNS AND
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Production                                               32
Markets and Prices                                       34
Financial Results                                        36
VII.     BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits and their Distribution                  39
Economic Analysis                                        40
Project Risks                                            42
VIII.    ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 1: Project Cost Summary                            27
Table 2: Proposed Financing Plan                         28
Table 3: Summary of Family Farm Budgets                  38
ANNEXES
Table 1:  Project Costs by Year
Table 2:  Detailed Financing Plan by Component and
Expenditure Category
Table 3:  Cotton Production and Yields
Table 4:  Key Indicators of Cotton Production
by Region
Table 5:  Cotton Price Structure
Table 6:  Input Costs and Subsidies
Table 7:  Cotton - Returns for the Various Crops
Table 8:  Net Cash Returns for the Various Crops
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: SOCADA - Balance Sheet
Table 11: SOCADA - Income Statement
Table 12: SOCADA - Cash Flow
Table 13: Government's Cash Flow
Table 14: Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Chart  I:  24410 SOCADA-Organigram
Chart II:  24411 SOCADA Production Department Structure
Map     :  16666R The Project Area



- 1 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
1.01     The Government of the Central African Republic has requested IDA's
assistance in financing an integrated rural development project in the cotton
growing area, estimated to cost US$29.7 million over four years. The project
was identified in 1980 by the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, with the
assistance of a team of CFDT specialists. Preparation was conducted in 1981
by consultants financed under the Technical Assistance Project (1150-CA). The
project was appraised in June 1982 by a team consisting of Messrs. T. Nkodo,
R. de Cock (IDA), and E. Baillie, A. Boekenkamp and G. Motha (consultants).
Representatives of CCCE, FAC and FED also participated in the appraisal.
B. The National Economy
1.02     The Central African Republic (CAR) is a land-locked country in
Equatorial Africa with an area of 626,000 km2. The country is bounded on the
west by Cameroon, on the north by Chad, on the east by Sudan, and on the south
by Zaire and the People's Republic of the Congo. The vegetation is equatorial
forest in the southern part of the country and Sudanese savannah in the north,
with large transitional areas of wooded savannah more suited to animal
husbandry than crop production. The climate is equatorial in the south,
intertropical in the central region and sub-sahelian in the extreme north.
1.03     Population is estmated at 2.4 million (1980) and population density
is relatively low at about 4 persons per km2.  Population growth in recent
years averaged 2.5 percent, with urban sector growth rates of 4-5 percent
annually. About 1.7 million or 70 percent of the total population is rural.
With a per capita income of US$300 in 1980, the CAR is one of the world's
least developed countries. Its economy is based on agriculture which accounts
for 35 percent of GDP. Mining and manufacturing account for 13 percent,
utilities and construction for 6 percent, and services for 46 percent.  GDP in
real terms has been regressing each year since 1977, at an average rate of
decline of 3 percent a year during the 1979-81 reflecting declining
agricultural and industrial production, and falling investments as a share of
GDP.
1.04     The Government's investment program, presented in a National Action
Program 1982-1985, is a continuation of the Rehabilitation Program 1980-
1981. The program emphasizes the rehabilitation of the agricultural sector
and the reconstruction of the transportation infrastructure as priority
objectives. Investments are expected to increase from 9 percent of GDP on
average during 1981 and 1982, to reach an average of 12 percent during 1983-
1984. Planned public investments in agriculture (27%) and infrastructure
(43%) are major elements of this program.



-2-
C. Agriculture in the Economy
1.05     Agriculture (including forestry, livestock and fisheries) plays a
major role in the economy of the CAR. The rural sector contributes
approximately 35 percent of GDP, 40 percent of export earnings, and employs
nearly 80 percent of the total labor force. Agricultural production is
predominantly based on smallholder farming and is largely subsistence
oriented.  There are some 350,000 farm families cultivating about 520,000 ha,
or 9 percent of the total arable land area. Agricultural production is
concentrated in two main areas, Ouham and Ouham Pende in the northwest, and
Ouaka, Basse Kotto and Niboumou in the south central part of the country.
These areas account for 60 percent of the rural population. Because of the
dominant reliance on traditional cultural practices and the limited use of
inputs, yields are low for both export and food crops.
1.06     Food crops cover about 80 percent of the total crop area.  Cassava
(36%), groundnuts (14%), and maize (11%) are the principal food crops, with
millet, sorghum, sesame and vegetables accounting together for 14 percent. in
recent years there has been some increase in upland rice production. The CAR
is largely self-sufficient in food crops, although some foods are imported,
mainly wheat destined for the urban centres.
1.07     There are three main export crops: cotton, coffee and (to a limited
extent) tobacco. Coffee is at present second only to diamonds as a source of
foreign exchange earnings, with about 25 percent of total export value.  In
recent years, coffee production has stagnated around 15,000 tons a year, of
which two thirds is produced by about 36,000 smallholders and the rest on 133
plantations.  After reaching a record level of 2,750 tons in 1977-1978,
tobacco production declined in the last few years and is not expected to
increase significantly in the short term due to marketing difficulties for one
of the two varieties grown in the eastern part of the country.
1.08     Cotton remains the most important cash crop in terms of area sown
(about 52,000 ha in 1981) and the number of families cultivating this crop
(about 118,000 growers or over one third of the rural population). Introduced
in the CAR in 1925, cotton cultivation began on a large scale after World War
II and output increased regularly to reach a peak of 58,700 tons in 1969.
Since then, production has declined by about 11 percent annually to 16,800
tons in 1981. The causes of this trend are analyzed below (para 2.08).
D. Rural Development Policy
1.09     In response to the general overall economic decline with negative
rates of growth, growing budgetary deficits and imbalance on the external
accounts, the Government's development objectives in agriculture are to: (a)
increase both the output and productivity of export crops so as to increase
foreign exchange earnings (and budgetary revenues) and to attain a compe-
titive position in world markets; (b) revitalize food production to meet the
domestic demand resulting from urbanization, and to generate adequate supplies



for the agricultural processing industries; and (c) develop regional package
programs, involving both export and foods crops and physical and social
infrastructure, to raise the incomes and living standards of the rural
population. Consistent with these objectives, the Government's policies give
special emphasis to coffee and cotton production. Until 1985, these two
subsectors will receive more than half of the agricultural investments planned
within the framework of integrated, whole farm development programs. The plan
aims at doubling coffee production by 1985 and restoring cotton production to
about 50,000 tons. Food production is expected to increase simultaneously by
3-4 percent annually. Although these production targets appear overtly
ambitious, they are economically sound and are designed to overcome the
stagnation and decline in agricultural production noted over the past several
years.
E. Major Sectoral Institutions
1.10     Overall development planning is the responsibility of the recently
established High Commissariat for Planning attached to the Presidency, while
the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE) is responsible for directing
and controlling agricultural policies.  Hitherto, execution of the agricul-
tural programs was entrusted to several agencies, including MAE's regular
agricultural extension staff -- who are deployed in all the regions but who
are unable to carry out their duties because of poor organization, inadequate
training and supervision, and lack of logistical support -- and autonomous
development agencies set up by Government to promote specific crops. This
situation has led to a diffusion of responsibility and a duplication of
efforts, a matter of particular concern considering the country's poor public
finance situation. Furthermore, it hinders investment planning and compli-
cates policy implementation because of the lack of coordination between
projects. Therefore, in 1980, the Government decided to entrust the country's
agricultural development to multipurpose regional development agencies, each
responsible for a broad ecological zone.
1.11     SOCADA (Societ6 Centrafricaine de D&veloppement Agricole) is the
major development institution in the cotton zone. It was established in 1980
as a joint company owned by the CAR Government (75%) and CFDT (Compagnie
Francaise pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles) (25%), to carry out the
agricultural development of the entire cotton zone.  SOCADA's tasks include:
(1) extension for cotton and food crops; (2) provision of agricultural inputs
and equipment; (3) implementation of agricultural credit schemes and training
programs; (4) purchasing and ginning of seed cotton, and marketing of cotton
fiber and cotton seed by-products; and (5) support to any other agricutural
development activities in the cotton zone. SOCADA's development programs have
been financed through the Government's investment budget and substantial
external assistance (para 2.11). Although SOCADA is in charge of the develop-
ment of both cotton and food crops, it has largely emphasized cotton in its
extension and other activities. Hence, to date, SOCADA's non-cotton, general
agricultural development act-vities are modest.  The proposed project would
therefore be a first step in promoting the integration of cotton and food
crops under a whole farm development scheme.
1.12     SOCADA has five main services:  a production department, responsible



- 4-
for cotton and food crop production (including input supply and extension) and
for the primary marketing of cotton; a technical department, responsible for
ginneries, oil processing, and SOCADA's buildings, equipment and vehicles; a
finance department, responsible for all accounting, and financial and inven-
tory management services; a roads department, to carry out feeder road
construction and maintenance; and a personnel department, responsible for
personnel management and related services. At present, total permanent
Central African staff numbers 386; during seven months of the year, SOCADA
also employs about 500 seasonal workers to undertake its seed cotton marketing
and ginning operations. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock assigns, on a full-time basis, its field staff to execute SOCADA's
extension program and related research activities (para 2.13). The lack of
trained and experienced personnel has also necessitated the presence of a
strong technical assistance contingent comprising, besides the assistant
general manager: a cotton grading expert; a supplies manager; a financial
manager and three accountants; three applied research specialists; three
feeder road experts; and ten agricultural specialists to strengthen the
extension services.
1.13     Since its establishment, SOCADA has accumulated large operating
losses, estimated at CFAF 2.5 billion, or US$7.0 million equivalent (Annex
Table 11). These losses stem from several factors which include: the abrupt
decline in seed cotton production since 1977; the company's high cost
structure,-due to the run-down state of its plants, machinery, vehicles and
the dispersion of cotton farmers and the poor road conditions throughout the
cotton zone; the rise in labor costs resulting from Government-imposed salary
adjustments; and the company's increasing reliance on short-term credits from
local banks to finance its operations. To redress this situation, the
Government and SOCADA have already taken concrete measures during project
preparation -- in particular, the suspension of all oil extraction operations
and the closing of inefficient ginneries, which reduced the total number of
ginneries from 18 to 5, the permanent Central African labor force from 930
(January 1981) to 386 and the seasonal labor force from 2,200 to about 500.
Other measures are also being implemented, or are under conside- ration,
including sub-contracting cotton lint transport and the replacement of
SOCADA's vehicle fleet. Thus, given the expected increase in seed cotton
production and the projected recovery in cotton prices on the world market, it
is estimated that SOCADA will generate rising net surpluses from its
industrial and commercial operations starting this year, and thereby be able
to provide a sizeable contribution to the financing of its agricultural
development activities (para 5.04). However, SOCADA cannot achieve full
financial solvency until it settles its substantial short-term debts and
recovers its initial working capital, which has been fully depleted. Thus, the
financial rehabilitation of SOCADA poses a major problem for project
implementation and would be dealt with under the proposed project (para 4.05).
1.14     The other institution involved in agricultural development in the
cotton zone is ACADOP (Agence Centrafricaine pour le D6veloppement de l'Ouham
Pende), an autonomous regional agency created in 1977, which is responsible
for all agricultural developments in the Ouham Pende region (32,000 km2). To
date this program has only covered the Paoua district. In accordance with the
above reorganization of the agricultural sector, the Government has decided to
streamline ACADOP's activities to complement SOCADA's operations (para 4.04).



- 5 -
1.15     The Caisse de Stabilisation et de P6r6quation des Produits Agricoles
(CSPPA). The Government's agricultural price stabilization fund controls the
marketing of exports (except cotton) and guarantees producer and exporter
prices.  Accumulated surpluses from such operations are to be used to build
reserves for future stabilization activities, export promotion activities
investment in local processing facilitiles, and firancing part of the Govern-
ment's Investment Budget. The relationship betwean CSPPA and SOCADA wa,
established in 1980 in a convention signed by t'  two organizations ard
Government.  Under the convention, CSPPA must find any operating defioits
incurred by SOCADA; alternatively, SOCADA is to pay CSPPA 80 percent of any
operating surplus on its combined industrial. commerc a. and agricultural
development operations.  CSPPA must also pay two com.o3sions to SOCADA.  The
first, a sum equal to 5 psrcent of the cost of produ_ ion inputs sold by
SOCADA, is required to compensate SOCADA for its input distribution costs.
The second, a sum equal to 6 percent of SOCADA's gross revenues, is intended
to establish an input revolving fund.   Until now, the flow of CSPPA funds to
SOCADA has been modest, consisting only of one payment of CFAF 272 million
from the country's 1981 STABEX grant.  Thus, CSPPA has been unable to meet its
contractual obligations to SOCADA.  Moreover, a review of its financial
statements and projections indicates that CSPPA will not be in a position to
contribute to the financing of SOCADA's activities in the foreseeable future.
F.  Bank Participation in the Agricultural Sector
1.16     IDA has financed only one agricultural operation in CAR, a five-year
livestock development project (Credit 894-CA), designed to promote beef
production and to improve the nutrition and living conditions of one of the
poorest segments of the country's rural population -- the Mbororo herdsmen --
by supplying veterinary services. The Credit has been effective since July
1980. To date, physical progress has been slow, and the project has been
plagued by serious financial management difficulties in the face of the
country's deteriorating public finance position, and the effectiveness of
project actions has been hampered by the poor quality, inadequate motivation
and continuous turnover of the field staff. The experience of the last two
years has revealed that the project would be unable to achieve its objectives
if it were to rely exclus-vely on the official veterinary service.  Thus, as
agreed between Government and the cofinanciers in September 1982, the project
has been reorganized whereby the national livestock owners association (ANEC)
would play a key role in the drug sale program and the provision of animal
health services.  The proposed project has been designed to avoid repetition
of the shortcomings experienced under the livestock project by minimizing its
dependence on the central government services.
1.17     Past IDA assistance to the CAR, and to the agricultural sector in
particular, was largely circumscribed by the country's poor economic
performance and limited absoptive capacity. The cotton subsector deserves to
be considered as a key area for the country's development strategy and Bank
involvement for the following reasons: firstly, past investments and
experience gained under the on-going efforts financed by external donors
provide a sound basis for a project which would represent a cornerstone in the
Government's economic rehabilitation program; secondly, the cotton zone is one
of the least developed areas in the country, and the project beneficiaries



would be among the poorest populatlon groups of the country; and thirdly, the
proposed project would be an appropriate vehicle for promoting food crop
production, which has hitherto been neglected and which would be difficult to
tackle on its own, as experience in other West African countries has shown.
II. THE COTTON ZONE
A. Physical Resources
2.01     The cotton zone lies approximately between latitudes 4°-9° N and
stretches from the border with Cameroon and Chad in the west to Zaire in the
east (see map). It covers some 178,000 km2 or about 29 percent the CAR's
total area. Topographically, it is part of an extensive rolling plateau
divided by a central northeast/southwest ridge, which constitutes a watershed
between the tributaries of the Oubangui and Chari rivers. Average altitude is
610 m a.s.l. . The soils are generally laterite (85 percent), their physical
and chemical properties varying according to the parent-rock. The potentially
arable land area is considerable. It represents about 40 percent of the total
area, including 20 percent of soils of mediocre fertility, 18 percent of
average-to-good fertility and 2 percent of very good soils. The area is well
suited for cotton and food crop production. The rainy season is well defined
(April/May to October), and the annual rainfall ranges from 1,300 mm in the
north to 1,700 mm in the south. Annual average temperature is 27°C with
monthly variations between 18 and 35°C. The predominant vegetation is a mixed
tree and scrub savannah typical of the Sudano-Guinean zone. Major trees
lnclude Isoberlina spp in association with two-meter tall savannah grass
(Andropogon spp).  This vegetational climax results from periodic burning of
the grass in hunting game, the fires leaving the forest land relatively
unscathed but preventing natural reforestation.
B. Economic and Social Infrastructure
2.02     Road Communication.  The cotton zone is served by a road system of
about 6,800 km consisting of 1,600 km of classified roads, nearly 2,100 km of
secondary roads and 3,100 km of rural feeder roads. For lack of maintenance,
this road system deteriorated severely during the 1970s, to the extent of
disrupting traffic, since many of the secondary and rural roads became
impassable.  The resulting high transport costs have substantially added to
the cost of producing and marketing cotton, and led to a breakdown in the
private network of food crop marketing. Consequently, the upgrading of this
road net-work has been identified as a priority area in the emergency program
launched in 1979/1980, and several external donors (including IDA, under the
Fourth Highway Project, Credit 12580-CA) have undertaken road rehabilitation
projects in the cotton zone. However, much of this assistance concentrates on
the classified road network, and only about 1,800 km of secondary and rural
roads were maintained and repaired by the end of 1982 under the SOCADA's
roads program. Continuation and expansion of SOCADA's feeder road rehabili-
tation activities is therefore essential to provide the access required to



achieve the project's objectives (para 3.16).
2.03     Water Supply.  The scarcity of drlnking water is a significant
constraint to rural development in the cotton zone. There are relatively few
wells, mostly shallow, and these, under intensive sunshine, tend to dry up
during the 5-6 month dry season. The carrying of water is time and energy
consuming, especially for women and children; cases of the need to walk up to
14 km to the nearest water point have been reported.  Yet, little has been
done at a coordinated government level to alleviate this need, and most
measures taken have been on a scattered, individual basis. At present, ACADOP
is the sole public agency actively lnvolved in the construction of wells: it
intends to finance some 100 fully equipped wells in the Ouham Pende province
over the 1983-1988 period. The proposed project would, therefore, provide for
the institutional strenghtening of the MAE's rural works division (Genie
Rural) and for the expansion of the well construction program in the cotton
zone (para 3.18).
C. Human Resources
2.04     The cotton zone comprises all, or part of, six administrative
provinces (Ouham Pende, Ouham, Gribingui Economique, Kemo Gribingui, Ouaka and
Basse Kotto) and covers a total of 178,000 km2 or about 29% of the total area
of the CAR. Its 858,600 inhabitants (1979 data) represent 37 percent of the
national population. Hence, population density is about 4.8/km2, slightly
higher than the national average of 3.7/km2.  Three-quarters of the population
is rural, and about one quarter lives in urban areas.
2.05     Labor Supply.  Family labor is largely sufficient to accomplish
agricultural tasks; a sizeable surplus is available for non-agricultural
pursuits (hunting, fishing, social gatherings).  However, labor is in short
supply in peak periods: in March/April, when land clearing and preparation
for cotton conflict with the planting of food crops; in June/July, when food
crop weeding conflicts with cotton planting; and in August, when the final
weeding and the first harvesting of food crops conflict with cotton weeding,
fertilization and chemical treatment. Furthermore, women (and children) bear
the responsibilty for the sowing, tending and often harvesting of cotton, as
well as for fooderop production, cooking, cleaning and fetching wood and
water.  Therefore, extending the area under cotton cultivation could intensify
these conflicts and could result in delays in cotton planting, weeding and
treatment, and hence in reduced cotton ylelds.  These factors have been taken
into account in designing the proposed project (para 3.01).
D. Agricultural Activities
2.06      Cropping Paterns.  Agriculture in the cotton zone is based on some
190,000 farm units practicing shifting cultivation. Of these, about 151,000
(80 percent) are cotton growers. The average farm family includes 3.6 persons
of which 1.8 are considered economically active. Farms are fairly uniform,
averaging 1.5 ha of cultivated land and cropped as follows:



- 8 -
C1rop                         Area (ha)         Yield (kg/ha)
Cotton                              0.50                 330
Cassava (Chips)                     0.40               1,800
Groundnuts                          0.20                 450
Maize                               0.05                 800
Sorghum/TIllet                      0.10                 700
Sesame                              0.05                 300
Others                              0.15                   -
1.50
Apart from some animal traction (para 2.16), land clearing and cultivation are
done by hand. Land is generally cultivated for four years with cotton cropped
on newly cleared land in the first year, followed by an interplanting of food
crops (second year), cassava (third year) and assorted regrowth crops (fourth
year), after which it is left under fallow for four to twelve years. Deficient
cultural practices (poor land preparation, little concern for proper seeding
densities and for timely planting and weeding) and limited use of inputs
(improved seeds, fertilizer and pesticides) result in low yields as indicated
above. This is compounded by losses during storage ranging up to 15 percent
for grains.
2.07     Cotton.  Annex Table 3 presents the development of cotton production
since 1969. Although production volumes have been variable, the overall trend
has been declining. After reaching a peak level of 58,700 tons in 1969, seed
cotton production slipped to 41,000 tons in 1976. In the subsequent five
years, production decreased drastically to some 16,800 tons in 1981. Until
the mid-1970s, the decline in seed cotton production resulted solely from the
fall in average yields as the area under cotton was increasing and reached a
maxinum level of 135,600 ha in 1975. The sharp decline in recent years is due
to the steady reduction in the acreage planted from 135,000 ha in 1976 to only
51,800 ha in 1981.
2.08     Several reasons account for this decline in seed cotton production.
First, the so-called "Agrarian Reform" of 1970, which led to the expulsion of
most expatriate agricutultural staff, had a long term impact in weakening key
production factors during the early 1970s: interruption of cotton research and
seed multipliction activities (until 1979-80), and deterioration of the input
supply, seed cotton marketing and extension systems. Second, declining real
returns to cotton have represented a disincentive to cotton growers. For
example, the average producer price of seed cotton only doubled from CFAF
29/kg to CFAF 59/kg between 1970 and 1980, whereas retail prices of most
staple consumer goods more than tripled and food prices increased more rapidly
over the same period. Finally, the political turmoil of the past seven years
has disrupted cotton production due to inadequate budgetary provisions for
logistical and support services, and to pressure on the farmers not to grow
cotton. The impact of the latter factor on seed cotton production was parti-
cularly evident on 1981 (Annex Table 4) when about 40 percent of the cotton
growers -- mainly in Ouham Pende and Ouham -- abandoned cultivation of cotton
as a result of national political disputes. A substantial rebound in seed
cotton production was estimated for 1982 (from 16,800 to about 25,000 t),



- 9 -
resulting almost solely from the intens ve sensitization campa gn unuertaken
by the Government throughout the cotton zone.
2.09     Another significant feature in the evolution of seed cotton
production in the CAR, has been the continued increase in the average yield
from 244 kg/ha .n 1975 (when the maximum acreage planted was reached) to an
estimated 324 kg/ha -In 1981.  This indicates that the reduction in acreage has
been largely at the expense of marginal areas or producers.  However, yields
remain modest relative to other African cotton-producing countries, reflecting
low levels of cotton cultural practices. Proper land preparation and cotton
planting dates are frequently neglected.  Weeding is often neither timely nor
thorough.  Desirable levels of fertilizat.on and plant protection are often
ignored by many farmers. Under the proposed project, the extenslon service
would assist the farmers on improving their yields through adoption of better
cultural practices and the use of inputs.
2.10     Food Crops.  Food crops account for about two-thirds of the
cultivated area in the cotton zone. As indi.cated above (para 2.06), except
for upland rice which is produced by farmers on unimproved swamp lands, food
crops are traditionally grown in rotation with cotton thereby benefitting from
the after-effect of cotton fertilization.  The following table summar7zes
available information on food crop production in the cotton zone over the
1976-80 period.  Nothwithstanding the possible margin of error of the data,
annual production of individual crops shows some marked trend differences. In
the case of cassava and sorghum, there has been little change in production;
ln contrast, maize, sesame and upland rice show a steady growth, and
groundnuts have registered strong increases. The expans.on in production of
groundnuts is in response to the increased demand by the local processing
industry. In the case of sesame and rice, consumer preference and increasing
urban demand provide an additional market outlet.
Table 1.2: Food Crop Production in the Cotton Zone
('000 tons)
1976       1977        1978       1979        1980
Cassava                     215.1        N.A.        191.8     N.A.         199.5
Ground-iuts                  61.8       66.8          67.5     N.A.         100.0
Maize                        18.4       22.5          35.0     N.A.          32.5
Sesame                        6.5        7.9           6.5     N.A.          8.2
Sorghum                       N.A.      44.8          41.0     N.A.         45.8
'Upland Rice                  N.A.       4.2           4.6     N.A.           5.2
2.11     On-going development programs.  Agricultural development in the
cotton zone i.s assisted by various external donors.  Most of this assistance
is provided as part of an emergency program launched in 1979-1980. Besides
its support for applied research, seed multiplication and rural road
rehabilitation programs, FAC finances technical assistance to strengthen the
extension services in the Kemo Gribingui province. A FED-financed cotton
productivity project covers four districts in the Ouham province, including



- 10 -
provision of technical assistance, agricultural inputs and support for a (now-
defunct) pilot food marketing component. A KFW/GTZ-asslsted Integrated rural
development project in the Ouham Pende province provides support for both
cotton and food crops as well as for the development of social infrastruc-
ture. CCCE also provided a long term loan to finance agricultural Inputs for
the 1981/1982 campaign, and equipment and operating expenses for the rural
road program.  Although these projects have been restricted in terms of
geographical coverage, and there has been limited coordination between them,
they have shown that good prospects exist for the restoration of cotton
production. In the areas covered by these operations, cotton yields have
generally been higher than the natlonal average, ranging from 300 kg/ha under
traditional cultivation to 800 kg/ha under ox-drawn cultivation. Proven
technology packages are now available under which considerable cotton yield
increases can be achieved using improved cultivation and phytosanitary
treatments. On the other hand, these projects had only a limited impact on
food crop producti.on.  Extension servlces have concentrated mainly on cotton
and improved varieties of food crop seeds are generally in short supply.  It
4s, therefore, important that food crops be given increased support under the
proposed project (paras 3.10, 3.13).
E. Agricultural Support Services
2.12     Extension.  Extension in the cotton zone i.s conducted by SOCADA and
ACADOP. The overall extension force of 568 includes: 463 extension agents
(each responsible for about 330 planters); 79 chiefs of zones, 22 sector
chiefs and 4 regional chiefs.  All regional chiefs and 5 of the sector chiefs
are expatriates. The extension service generally suffers from a lack of
technical competence. About 89 percent of the extensionists are called
"Surveillants des Travaux Agricoles" (STA), while 8 percent are "Techniciens
Agricoles" (TA) and 3 percent are "Techniciens Superleurs d'Agriculture"
(TSA). STAs generally have a farm background and a practical knowledge of
crops, but have little formal educati.on. TAs are graduates of the four-year
College Technique Agricole of Grimari. TSAs are graduates of the four-year
Ecole Nationale des Techn.c.ens Superleurs d'Agriculture at Wakombo, and, in
addition, have at least three years of general secondary education. About
half of the zone chiefs are TSAs and the other half are TAs. However, recent
surveys conducted among the zone chiefs have indicated a general lack of
technical and management skills. It is, therefore, agreed that strengthening
the level and quality of the extension service -s essential to achieve the
proposed project's objectives. Thus, the proposed project includes a major
extension tralning program to be launched prior to the start of project
activities under a PPF advance (para 3.06).
2.13     A further serious handicap in the effectiveness of the extension
service stems from the fact that all Central African field staff are civil
servants of the Ministry of Agriculture, seconded to SOCADA and ACADOP on a
fulltime basis, whereas they are being paid directly under the national
budget. This separation of salary payment responsibility (Government) from
technical supervislon over daily work (SOCADA) has proven difficult in two
ways. Firstly, frequent delays in the payment of salaries by the Ministry
undermine staff morale and cause disruption of work. These delays have also
obliged SOCADA to pay all its Ministry personnel regular monthly allowances



- 11 -
over and above their normal salaries. Secondly, the Ministry's practice of
reassigning its staff without prior consultation with SOCADA has blurred the
lines of authority and, at times, created disciplinary problems. It is,
therefore, recommended that a clearer and more unified structure for extension
service be implemented under the proposed project (para 4.06).
2.14     Applied Research and Seed Multiplication.  Applied research on cotton
is conducted by the Institut de Recherche sur le Coton et les F.bres Textiles
(IRCT), working closely with SOCADA under external financing. The IRCT program
has focused on cotton varietal trials and seed production, plant protection,
and improvement of cultural techniques. Research and experimental work are
conducted through a network including a genetic section, an agronomy section,
an enthomological section, and a program of "development follow-up" at the
village level which features varietal and plant protectlon trials and
investigation of farmIng systems. A fairly well defined set of research
findings has emerged from this program (see Project Files), and results
suggest that significant yield increases can be achieved at the village level
by observing cultural techniques and performing effective plant protection.
There is also a well-established and effective system of cotton seed
multiplication in six centers (SMCA); further multiplication is being carried
out at selected private and Catholic mission farms.
2.15     Until 1980, investments in applied research on food crops consisted
solely of a recently terminated UNDP/FAO-financed project wich had been
operating since 1975. This project had only a limited impact due to a lack of
clearly defined objectives, inadequate support from the Government, and a high
turnover of its expatriate staff.  It produced small quantitles of groundnuts,
ma.ze, rice, sorghum and vegetables.  In 1981, a food crop specialist from the
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques Tropicales et des Cultures Vivrieres
(IRAT) joined the IRCT team to carry out adaptive research and multiply the
food crop seeds required for the on-going projects. The practical way adopted
to tackle the problems facing food crop production should yield, soon, better
cultural practices including mixed cropping adapted to the farmers' needs and
means.
2.16     Animal Traction  Over the past twenty years, various programs
financed by FAC and FED have periodically promoted animal traction. Of about
3,100 oxen pairs distributed between 1962 and 1975, only 1,340 were still
active in 1979, almost all in Ouham Pende (1,100) the only region where animal
traction has continued to develop in recent years. To meet this demand for
animal pairs and equipment, ACADOP has since 1980 operated a modest animal
traction program which provides farmers with credit to purchase draught
an.mals and equipment.  FED is also financing a breeding herd in the Ouaka
region to produce trypano-tolerant oxen; the first pairs will be available in
1986.  The limited progress in promoting animal traction resulted in part from
an inadequate supply of equipment and lack of support services; neglect in
land preparation may also have reduced the efficiency of animal traction and
may have led to the discouragement of farmers. The proposed project would
assi.st Government in addressing these deficiencies (para 3.12).
2.17     Credlt.  Farmers in the cotton zone have access to two types of
credit.  Seasonal, interest-free credit is provided In kind by SOCADA to
cotton growing farmers for fertilizer and pesticides: inputs are made
avallable to farmers through the agricultural extension staff, and loan



- 12 -
recovery is effected through cotton sales. The recovery rate is relatively
high, averaging over 93 percent for fertilizer and 89 percent for pest4ic;ides.
In addition, ACADOP provides interest-free credit for the acquisition of oxen
and ox-drawn agricultural implements. Loans for animal purchase are repayable
over 12 months, and equipment loans over 3 years.  Recovery rates by ACADOP do
not compare favorably wi.th SOCADA's operations s'.nce collection of loan
instalments .s not effected through cotton sales.
2.18     Cotton Marketing.  SOCADA has sole responsibility for purchasing and
gr.nn;.ng seed cotton, as well as for marketing cotton lint on the world
market. In the past, these activities were hampered by the very poor
conditions of the national road network and SOCADA's vehicle fleet.  These
deficiencies are now being addressed under the ongoing road rehabilitation
program and by replacement of some of SOCADA's trucks. Further improvements
would be made under the proposed project (para 3.16). At the same time,
beginning with the 1981/1982 campaign, all cotton lint transport from the
g.inneries to Bangui and Pointe Noire (Congo) is being contracted to private
transporters. This system should result in increased operational efficiency
and substantial savings in transport and transit costs.
2.19     Food Marketing.  Only a small proportion of the food crop production
in the cotton zone is marketed, and the share of marketed production (now
averaging around 20 percent) has greatly decreased since the mid 1970s. This
decline can be traced to the continuing deterioration of the reg.ion's road
system mnd to the steady contracting of the cash economy throughout that
period. Over the last ten years, various unsuccessful attempts have been made
at publlc sector intervention in food crop marketing, including the Off.ce
National de Commercialisation des Produits Agricoles (ONCPA) which was set up
and operated in the 1970s, and the ACADOP pilot program terminated in 1981.
Therefore, no new .nvestment in official food crop marketing is envisaged.
Instead, the proposed project would assist in the revitalization of the
traditional network of private traders mainly through the rehabilitation of
the feeder roads and the development of simple improved on-farm (or farmer
group) storage facilities to reduce post-harvest losses (para 3.13).
2.20     Pre-Cooperatives.  The cooperative movement in the cotton zone is
weak. It consists of pre-cooperatives called Groupements d'Interets Ruraux
(GIRs), established on an experimental basis in the Ouham province under FAC
assistance. Some 70 GIRs were set up between 1963 and 1970 to coordinate the
marketing of both cotton and food crops for their members, and the distribu-
tion ani sale of consumer necessities in rural areas where regular commercial
channel3 were lacking. However, following the departure of the foreign
technical assistance in 1970 and the general deterioration of the economic
environment, the number of GIRs declined to only 7 by 1980/1981.  Since then,
however, a revival of the movement has taken place under SOCADA assistance.
There are now 35 GIRs engaged solely in cotton marketing for which they are
paid a bonus of CFAF 3/kg seed cotton. There is an active interest in
establishing GIRs in other areas of the cotton zone, and it is envisaged that
their activities will eventually include food crop marketing. In view of the
satisfactory results obtained by SOCADA in fostering the GIRs within the
framework of its general extension work, no additional support under the
proposed project is deemed necessary.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. ObjectIves and Summary Descr;ption
3.01     Objectives.  The proposed project aims at improving the rural incomes
and standards of liv.ng of the population in the cotton zone, and at promoting
one of the country's leading exports.  It would focus on strengthening and
transforming SOCADA into an effective and financially sound development
agency, capable of assuming a broader approach to rural development and intro-
ducing institutional changes in the agricultural sector. The specific
objectives of the proposed project would be:
(a) to promote more balanced and diversified agricultural production and
incomes;
(b)  to rehabilitate cotton production through improvements in
productivity (i.e. yields and returns to the farmers) rather than
through an expansion of the area under cultivation;
(c)  to increase food crop production -- with actions focusing on
groundnuts, malize, sorghum, sesame and rice, which enter into the
rotation cycle with cotton -- through Introduction of improved
varieties and better cultural practices; and
(d)  to improve and provide the socio-economic infrastructure required to
support these objectives including feeder roads and village water
supply.
3.02     Project Area and Participating Farmers.  Given the limited experience
and capabilities of the extension service, it is generally acknowledged that
the 190,000 farm units in the cotton zone cannot be adequately assisted under
the project in such a way as to increase their average cotton ylelds and to
expand their food crop production. Therefore, in order to avoid overextending
SOCADA, the proposed project would cover a smaller area and efforts would
concentrate on institution-building, which could gradually be extended to the
whole of the cotton zone. Specifically, the proposed project would cover only
areas selected because of their favorable ecological conditions and proximity
to SOCADA's ginning, research and seed multiplication facilities, and where
farmers have demonstrated receptivity to recommended technical packages. It
will be noted (see map) these areas are located in relatlon to specific rural
roads; all farmers and associated villages along these designated road
segments would be incorporated in the proposed project. In accordance with
its broadened responsibilities, SOCADA would continue to provide support
services to farmers in the remaining cotton growing areas. However, SOCADA's
actions outside the project area will remain at present levels of intensity
(para 4.07). Based on available data on cotton area and farmers, it is
estimated that the proposed project would directly reach some 61,000 farm
families (i.e. 40 percent of the cotton zone's total population) cultivating
some 32,000 ha of cotton and 67,200 ha of food crops.
3.03     Summary Descr.ption.  The project objectives would be achieved



- 14 -
through a 4-year program comprising:
(a) strengthening of SOCADA's agricultural extension service;
(b)  support for and reorganization of the applied research and seed
multiplication programs;
(c) expanding cotton production on about 32,000 ha and food crop
production on about 25,600 ha each of cassava and groundnuts, 6,400
ha of sorghum/millet, 3,200 ha each of maize and sesame, and 1,600 ha
each of upland rice and cowpeas;
(d) provision, through credit or cash, of inputs and agricultural
implements;
(e)  promotion of animal traction through the establishment of two
training centers, and provls4on of credit for the purchase of ox-
drawn equipment;
(f)  rehabilitation (950 km) and periodic maintenance (2,300 km) of
existing feeder roads to facilitate extension, input delivery and
marketing activities;
(g) establishment of about 150 village water wells;
(h)  improvements in ginning and transport maintenance facilities;
(i) establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation system;
(j)  establishment of a project coordination unit; and
(k) consultancy services for special studies and preparation of a
possible follow-up project.
B. Detai.led Features
3.04     Strengthening of SOCADA's Extension Service.  The proposed project
would improve the existing extension system through: (i) reorganization of its
structure, and increased coverage and technical supervision (paras 4.06,
4.07); (.i) systematic staff training and retraining programs (para 3.06); and
(.1-.) provision of technical assistance (para 4.10).
3.05     The overall supervision of the extension service would be provided
through the headquarters-based director of production (an internationally
recruited specialist) and a deputy director of production. Given the existing
structures, few new building facilities are envisaged for this component.
Prov4sion would be made to provide the regional and sector offices with
furniture, light vehicles and motorcycles and bicycles for the extension
agents.  Additional village input stores (approximately 213) would be
constructed to provide one 32m2 store per extension agent. Built with
farmers' assistance, these stores would serve as centres for distributing
i.nputs and organizing marketing and other activities. The project would also



- 15 -
provide for the expansion of the total number of extension personnel with the
addition of sector chiefs (2), zone chiefs (2), extensilon agents (110),
storekeepers (4) and store clerks (14). Other expenditures to be financed
under the project would be salary costs of local and expatriate staff, vehicle
operating costs, and extension materials and supplies.
3.06      Extension Staff Training.  The presently poor performance of the
extension service is due mainly to inadequate technical skills and a lack of
discipline among chiefs of zones and their extensionists.  To correct the
situation, an intensive training program would be established under the
director of production, who would be periodically assisted by a consultant
specialized in agricultural training. The technical skills of the chiefs of
zones would be improved through an initial one year intensive training
program; half of this program at the Batangafo train4ng centre, would aim at
upgrading their theoretical knowledge including administration and management,
maintenance, basic accounting and training techniques, while the other six
months would cover on-the-job training at the duty station where the chiefs of
zones would be assisted by their trainers and supervisors.  The 81 chiefs of
zones required for the project would be trained over a 3-year period by a
group of educators stationed at Batangafo and composed of one specialist
(recruited internationally) and two assistants. Following this initial
training, the training and upgrading of the chlefs of zones and their exten-
sionists would take place at their duty stations through a permanent training
program provided by two teams of trainers (one operating In the east, the
other in the west), each composed of an internationally recruited specialist
assisted by two locally recruited trainers and the necessary transport and
teaching materials.  During this period, particular attention would be given
to the constant upgrading of the chiefs of zones and their extensionists'
skills concerning the selection of the best varieties and cultural practices
for each crop in the rotation and the best methods to communicate them to
their farmers. Given the importance of the training component for the timely
development and success of the project, training activities estimated to cost
about CFAF 88.7 million (about US$261,000) would be partly financed through a
PPF advance.
3.07     All renovation works at the Batangafo training centre and the
preparation of a detailed and comprehensive program have been completed under
separate, bilateral financing. Financing would be provided under the proposed
project for the salary costs of the teaching and support staff, consultant
services, teaching materials, office supplies and field equipment, housing
furniture, and the purchase and operation of vehicles. Subsistence for
trainees and travel allowances for teaching staff would also be financed, plus
scholarships (one per year) for the formation of Central African trainers to
replace, by the end of the project, those recruited abroad.
3.08     Agronomic Packages.  The agronomic packages for cotton would be
largely based on techniques promoted by the IRCT research team (para 2.14) and
practiced by farmers in progressive villages. For food crops, the packages
would be based on the results of the UNDP/FAO project (para 2.15) and on the
experience gained in neighboring countries.  The packages would cover:
improved crop husbandry (particular attention would be pa-id to good land
preparation and timely sowing), plant density, weeding and rotational
practices, usage of improved varieties; fertilizing and spraying of cotton;
and selective usage of pesticides on other crops.



- 16 -
3.09     For cotton, the recommended varieties remain the BJA-B2 for the west,
and the SRU-F4 for the center and eastern parts of the cotton zone. Latest
selections have shown yield potentials of over 2,500 kg/ha of seed cotton and
a good resistance to the main diseases inherent to the area. However, the
adoption of improved husbandry and the utilization of inputs are expected to
be only gradual. Farmers would abandon their traditional husbandry (stage 0)
for a timelier land preparation and sowing, better weeding and three sprayings
(ULV) of a synthetic insecti.ci.de (pyrethrinoid - 3 litres/ha) (stage 1).
Stage 2 would involve a better land preparation, a better and timelier
observance of the technical package, and four sprayings plus an application of
100 kg/ha of a mixed fertilizer (2/3 Ammonium Sulfate - 1/3 Urea) where
recommendations on land preparation and timely planting have been followed.
Stage 3 would involve the use of oxen for land preparation and first weedings,
five ULV sprayings and the application of 200 kg/ha of NPKSB fertilizer
complex.
3.10     Food crops covered would be maize, sorghum, groundnuts and rice.
Initially, the varieties to be recommended would be, for maize, Metro Jaune
for the eastern part of the cotton growing area and Dentado Bianco for the
central and western parts; both varieties have a yield potential of over 2,500
kg/ha. For sorghum, selections of the local variety, which has a yield
potential of 2,000 kg/ha, would be distributed: FSC-18-79 in the east and FSC-
20-78 in the rest of the area. Two groundnut varieties (2-IE and Engour Zang),
which have a yield potential of 2,200 kg/ha, are well adapted to the cotton
ara. Research work on rainfed rice started only recently; two varieties, OS-6
and Bavot (yield potential: 2,000 kg/ha) can be recommended. Ongoing food
crop varie-;y screening would be intensified under the project, and better
varieties are likely to become available soon. Research results to date do
not justify fertilizer applications on food crops.  General use of pesticides
would not be recommended since pests and diseases incidence on crops is very
small.
3.11     The distribution of production inputs would be supported and partly
financed through a seasonal credit program (paras 4.08; 4.09). Over the
project period, incremental input requirements are estimated as follows: 1,790
tons of ferti.lizer, 300,000 litres of insecticides, 5,630 ULV sprayers,
683,000 batteries, hand tools and small agricultural equipment (details in
Project File).  In order to ensure that fertilizer and pesticides for the
1983/84 growing season (PY1) arrive in the CAR on time for distribution and
application, these inputs would be financed under a PPF advance with parallel
contributions from other donors.  Failure to procure fertlilzers and
pesticides in a timely fashion would seriously prejudice the start up of the
project, both with regard to restoring farmers' incentives and their
confidence in SOCADA.
3.12     Animal Traction.  The limited population, restrioted family size and
concomitant scarcity of casual labor present major constraints to expanding
the cultivated area. The promotion of oxen cultivation offers scope both for
alleviating these constraints and raising yields through a better timing and
quality of cultivation.  The indigenous cattle, traditionally reared in the
country, adapt well to traction.  However, progress in promoting animal
traction has been slow, except in the northwest, where the proximity of
Cameroon and Chad (where animal traction is well developed) and the actions of



- 17 -
ACADOP have resulted in a moderate development of oxen cultivation. Since
ACADOP intends to continue its promotlonal work in the Ouham Pende province,
the project would concentrate its efforts on the rest of the project area
through: (i) the establishment, within SOCADA, of an animal traction unit
headed by a competent and experienced chief; (t-i) the upkeep of an animal
traction center in Bossangoa (constructed recently with FED funding) and the
construction of a new one in Kaga Bandoro involving simple sheds, office and
handling facilities. A nucleus of cattle (15 pairs) would be maintained at
each centre and trained with the assistance of interested farmers; and (il)
the establishment of a credit fund for the provision of animals and
equipment.  Farmers would be expected to pay the full cost of animals and
equipment. Farmers would pay cash for the oxen but would purchase the
equiment on credit (para 4.08).  Since the program is aimed at introducing
oxen cultivation in areas with limited experience in animal traction, only 350
pairs of oxen are targeted for purchase by interested farmers under the
proposed project.
3.13     Applied Agronomic Research.  The applied research program, success-
fully initiated by the IRCT/IRAT team under bilateral financing, would be
continued under the proposed project. However, departing from previous
arrangements whereby this was a unit outside SOCADA, a research and seed
multiplication department would be created within SOCADA (Chart 1) reporting
directly to its Director General. This department would be headed by an
agricultural research management specialist to be financed by bilateral
assistaace. Given the good results already obtained for improving cotton
production, research on cotton would be consolidated and emphasis shifted
towards food crops. The research divisi on would have three sections: a cotton
section at Bambari to maintain the genetic collections, produce breeders and
foundation seeds, and assist technically further seed multiplications, and
improve cultural practices; a food crop section located at Soumbe (Bossangoa)
where variety screening, fertilizing, herbicide use, mixed cropping, crop
rotation and traditional storage improvement research would be stepped up for
crops such as maize, sorghum, groundnuts and upland rice; the third section,
located at Bangui, would deal with the phytopathological aspects of both
cotton and food crops, and search for better products and improved application
methods.
3.14     Each of these sections would be headed by an experienced researcher
(internationally recruited) and include a Central African assistant
researcaer.  Financing would also be provided under the proposed project for
housing and office repairs, support personnel, vehicles and equipment required
to function efficiently, and fellowships (one annually) for practical training
and familiarization v;sits to other research institutions abroad (details in
Project File). Field research would be consolidated at the farm research
stations: Poumbaidi, Soumbe, Ngoul.ngan and Bambari.  The research program and
related budget would be an integral part of the project's annual work program
and would be submitted to IDA for prior review, and SOCADA's annual report
would contain a special section summarizing the main findings of the applied
research program (para 5.19). The research and seed multiplication department
would also reinforce the existing working relations with international and
regional research institutions such as IITA, CIMMYT, IDESSA and WARDA, inclu-
ding the exchange of experience and planting materials.
3.15     Seed Multiplication.  SOCADA is currently multiplying cotton and food



- 18 -
crop seeds at the six experimental stations utillzed for research. Since only
four of them would be retained under the project, seed production would be
consolidated in these centres (para 3.14). For cotton, the ongoing scheme,
which gave good results, would be maintained: breeders and foundation seeds
would continue to be produced by the cotton research section (para 3.13), as
well as the multiplication of the first generation seed at SOCADA's multipli-
cation centres; further multiplications of second and third generation seeds
would continue in farmers' fields. The cotton research section would monitor
the quality and purity of the seed produced. A similar scheme and the same
facilities would be utilized for the food crop seed multiplication, except at
the farmers' field multiplication stage, since the quantitles envisaged (maize
20 t, sorghum 10 t, groundnuts 40 t and paddy 30 t by PY4) for renewing
farmers' seeds every third year could be produced on the land available at the
multiplication centres (less than 80 ha at PY4). Food crop seeds would be
conditioned and stored at the multiplication centres from where they would be
distributed and sold by the extension service.  The seed multiplication
division would be headed by a seed production specialist assisted, at each
seed multiplication centre, by a chief of centre and his assistant. Project
funds would be provided for: housing, repairs, the construction of drying
floors (400 m2), the purchase and operating costs of vehicles, motorbikes and
agricultural equipment and implements, and salarles of the technical and
support personnel (details in Project File).
3.16     Feeder Roads.  SOCADA operates three heavy road brigades for
reconstruction and periodic maintenance, and one light brigade for maintenance
only. One of the heavy brigades and its maintenance workshop are located at
Bossangoa and the other units, together with their maintenance facility, are
located at Bambari. The proposed project component would maintain and
strengthen the existing SOCADA roads division, specifically to rehabilitate
950 km of rural roads and to carry out an annual upgrading maintenance program
on 2,300 km.  The component would comprise: (a) the purchase and operating
costs of equipment and vehicles; (b) the supply and installation of additional
accommodations and equipment to carry out repairs and maintenance at the
Bossangoa and Bambari bases; (c) technical assistance in the form of an
internationally recruited director for the roads department and two
internationally recruited workshop managers; (d) construction materials
(cement, structural steel, gabions, timber); and (e) salaries and training
programs for local staff.
3.17     All rehabilitation and maintenance works would be done on force
account by SOCADA's brigades, and consiruction standards would be essentially
similar to those already established under the ongoing programs. Unit costs
(in end 1982 prices, including equipr'ent amortization but excluding contingen-
cies) are estimated at US$3,385/km for rehabilitation, US$250/km for full
maintenance and US$97/km for minimum maintenance. A tentative list of roads
to be improved was agreed upon during appraisal, based on priority needs of
the agricultural development program, Furthermore, not later than July 1 of
each year, SOCADA would prepare and sTbmit to IDA for prior review an annual
work program and related budget for f.eder roads in the project area to be
rehabilitated. The proposed project would provide only for additional
equipment and vehicles, and necessary replacements of worn-out equipment. An
assurance was received from SOCADA and Government that all equipment presently
operated by SOCADA's road brigades would be made available for utilization
under the project (para 8.01).  On-the-job training would be emphasized under



- 19 -
the project, through progressive delegation of work responsibillty, in such a
way that the deputies to the three expatriate managers could carry the major
load by the end of the project.  In addition, the project would provi;de for
the enrollment of SOCADA's rural roads staff (12 per year) in the 6-week
training course at the DGTP training center for foremen and artisans, and
three fellowships (1 per year in PY2 to PY4) for training to be undertaken in
nelghboring countries (e.g. the technical college at Ouagadougou in Upper
Volta).
3.18     Rural Water Supply.  The proposed project aims at laying foundations
for a Government service to supply rural water, by introducing suitable
techniques for constructing safe, clean wells and capturing springs, and for
developing the existing small nucleus of staff of the G6nie Rural (GR), at the
Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE), into construction teams. The
proposed project component would include: (i) a preliminary feasibility study
(3 man-months equivalent) to find the best approach to well construction -- in
particular hand-dug versus machine-drilled -- in the Ouham, Gribingui
Economique and Ouaka provinces; (ii) a construction program (personnel,
materials, vehicles and equipment and related operating costs) of some 150
wells in the three foregoing provinces; (iii) the purchase and installation of
150 handpumps; and (iv) technical assistance.  To ensure continuity, a single
firm of consulting engineers would be selected for both the preliminary
feasibility study and the subsequent provision of technical assistance.
Technical assistance is envisaged for 25 months of the continuous presence,
from mid-PYl to mid-PY3, of an hydro-geologist experienced in location and
sinking of wells, followed by a 3-month visit in PY4. This specialist would
help to set up the GR well-sinking teams, to select the locations and to
lnltiate the construction of wells.  An advisory committee to the Minister of
Agriculture, to be established under the project not later than September 30,
1983 and including representation of GR, local authorities and SOCADA, would
advise on the selection of villages. The selection of villages would be based
on the following criteria: location inside the project area and demons- trated
potential for further agricultural development; demography (about 600 persons
per well, equivalent to 10 litres/person/day); distance from existing water
point.  The MAE's Genie Rural division would prepare the initial list of
proposed villages together with justifications which would be submitted to IDA
for prior review not later than two months after the reception of the consul-
tant's feasibility study. The contribution from beneficiary villages would be
to provide free labor to transport all materials, and to assist in construct-
ing the well-head flnishing and protecting barricade, in appointing one person
to be responsible for pump maintenance (to be trained under the proposed
project) and in purchasing all necessary spare parts. Assurances to these
effects were confirmed during negotiations.
3.19     Pending the recommendations of the feasibility study, it is envisaged
that 100 hand-dug and concrete-lined wells would be constructed over the
schist formations of the Gribingui Economique and Ouaka provinces, and that 50
machine-drilled tubewells of up to 60 m depth would be built in the Ouham
province.  Hand-sinking and concrete lining of shallow wells would be carrl4 d
out on force account by GR teams. Deep drilling through rock would be put eut
to contract drilling.  Since the number involved (50 boreholes) is too small
to attract international competitive bidding, it is recommended to contract
the work to the drill-rig to be established under the ADACOP project (para
2.03). Details of physical equipment, civil works and costs are presented in



- 20 -
the Project File.
3.20     Two types of training would take place under the proposed project.
The first type would be on-site training, provided by the hydro-geologist,
through full involvement of the GR engineer in the location of the wells and
the preparation of work programs. The second type would consist of two
fellowships annually to provide practical training in a neighboring country
for a 6-month period.
3.21     Ginning Factories.  SOCADA has recently completed the process of
reducing the number of ginneries from 18 to 5: Pende, Bossangoa, Guiffa,
Bambari and Alindao. However, the remaining factories must be reinforced,
where necessary, to a minlmum of three 120-tooth gins which give a capacity
(over 23 hours per working day) of 650 t seed cotton per week. The proposed
project would provide for the related improvements required due to the
increase in capacity and the replacement of old equipment. These improvements
include purchase and installation of: (i) two new diesel-generator groups of
500 KVA for the Pende and Bossangoa factories; (ii) one new cotton baler for
the Bossangoa factory; and (ii-) three new pneumatic seed cotton discharger-
loaders for the Pende, Bossangoa and Bambari factories.  No additional storage
i3 required for the output (about 35,000 t) considered under the project.
Details of physical equipment, civil works and costs are presented in the
Project File.
3.22     Transport Maintenance Facilities.  Two-thirds of SOCADA's transport
fleet is 10 years old or more and spends much time under maintenance. The
transport maintenance facilities at Bossangoa and Bambari are deficient in
sheltered space, and in-servicing and repair equipment.  Therefore, to assist
routine servicing and maintenance, the proposed project would provide for
additional sheltered workshop buildings at Bossangoa and Bambari, and in
servicing and repair equipment at both facilities. Details of physical
equipment and costs are provided in the Project File.
3.23     Monitoring and Evaluation.  A Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
(PMEU) would be established within SOCADA, under the direct administrative and
technical responsibility of its General Director. It would give project
management, the Government and the co-financiers impact information from the
field to assess progress toward project objectives and to make constructive
modifications (as needed) during project implementation. Based on data
collected by SOCADA's other units (mainly extension and applied research
serv.ces) and through special surveys and studies as appropriate, the unit
would measure and evaluate the project's physical progress and effectiveness,
examine topics such as farmers' reactions to proposed technical packages and
the effectiveness of support services, and collect and maintain detailed
documentary data on the cotton zone's development constraints and potentlal.
This information would be required for a reorientation of project activities
and for preparation of a possible follow-up project.
3.24     Under the proposed project, financing would be provided for staff
salaries and allowances, office construction and improvements, vehicles and
equipment, and necessary operating costs.  An internationally recruited M+E
specialist would be recruited to establish and lead the unit for three
years. Assisted by a Central African agronomist or agro-economist as his
deputy, he would select, train and supervise a field staff of 4 team leaders



- 21 -
and 20 enumerators. (Details on cost and terms of reference of the interna-
tionally recruited specialist are in the Project File). The unit would be
established in mid-1983, with the assistance of a PPF advance, to allow for
the training of staff and completion of a baseline survey of the zone prior to
commencement of project activities.  A detailed PMEU work program would be
submitted to IDA for approval within six months of the specialist's arrival in
Bangui. Evaluation of data would be summarized in the project's quarterly and
annual reports, which would be submitted to the Government and the co-
financiers, and in special reports to be also submitted to them within three
months of completion of the field work survey (para 8.01).
3.25     Project Coordination Unit.  A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would
be created within SOCADA to assist its Director General for the overall
coordination of project activities and disbursement of funds (para 8.01).
Provision would be made under the proposed project for the services of an
internationally recruited project coordinator to head this unit, a small
support staff, office and housing accomodations and the purchase and operating
costs of a vehicle for field visits.
3.26     Studies and Preparation of a Possible Follow-Up Project.  Funds would
be provided for 10 man-months of short-term consultants required to carry out
specialized studies of problems arising during project implementation (e.g.
detailed review of SOCADA's overhead expenses) and to contribute to the
preparation of a possible follow-up project. The project preparation study
would be undertaken in PY3. All studies would be carried out by consultants
and under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para 4.11).
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Overall Structure
4.01     In accordance with its mandate as executing agency for the integrated
development of the cotton zone, SOCADA would be responsible for overall
project supervision and monitoring, including preparation of annual work
programs and budgets, and progress reports. It would also serve as the
channel for the release of all project funds and as procurement agency for all
contracts required under the project. The Government and SOCADA would enter
into a Convention, which would determine SOCADA's tasks and responsibilities
for the execution and coordination of the project, including a clear defini-
tion of the flow of funds, arrangements for pre-financing and claiming
reimbursement from the IDA Credit and other co-financiers, and for reimbursing
SOCADA for its overhead costs incurred while providing financial, accounting
and procurement services for the project. The draft Convention would be
submitted to IDA for prior review and its signing, on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
Credit (para 8.02).
4.02     SOCADA is managed by a competent Central African General Director,
who would be the Project Manager. He would report directly to the Minister of
Agriculture and Livestock on project-related matters. He would be assisted in
his reslonsibility of day-to-day supervision and financial control of project



- 22 -
activities by a Project Coordinator (para 3.25). An assurance was obtained
negotiations that SOCADA and Government would appoint, or cause to be
appointed, to the positions of Project Manager and Project Coordinator, and
for the duration of the project, experienced and qualified staff on terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (para 8.01).
B. Implementation
4.03     SOCADA would be responsible for executing all aspects of the agricul-
tural development program (extension services, provision of inputs and farm
equipment, applied research, seed production and distribution, and provision
of credit), construction of feeder roads, improvements of ginning factories
and vehicles maintenance facilities, staff training programs, and project
monitoring and evaluation. These components would be implemented with few
minor modifications in SOCADA's existing organizational structure (i.e.
creation of an applied research and seed multiplication department and a
project coordination unit).  The water supply component would be executed by
the Genie Rural division (GP) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock.
4.04     To avoid posible duplication of efforts, it would be essential that a
definition of the respective responsibilties of SOCADA and ACADOP be formally
stated in a Protocol which would specify the modalities of cooperation and
coordination between the two agencies. The draft Protocole has been reviewed
by IDA and its signing, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (para 8.02).
4.05     Financial Rehabilitation of SOCADA.  Government, having recognized
the need to restructure SOCADA's financial situation prior to commencement of
the project, has undertaken the following measures to clear up the CFAF 2.5
billion (US$7.4 million) accummulated deficits (para 1.13):
(i)    CFAF 0.2 billion would be made available by the CSPPA as its
contribution towards the 1982 deficit;
(il)    CFAF 0.3 billion consisted of a loan by local banks guaranteed and to
be reimbursed by Government over twelve months;
(iii)    CFAF 0.5 billion of SOCADA's debts vis-a-vis Government on account of
accrued taxes and export duties were written off; and
(iv)    a CFAF 1.5 billion long-term loan (30 years) has been obtained from
CCCE (para 5.05).  This loan will be utilized to reschedule the major
part of SOCADA's short term commercial bank borrowings.
These measures, combined with the gradual reduction in input subsidies (para
6.10) and the assurance that SOCADA shall suspend all profit distribution
during the four-year project implementation period (para 5.06), should restore
SOCADA's financial position to a sound basis and enable the company to carry
out its proposed development program.
4.06     Rationalization of Extension Services.  Responsibility for the
implementation of the agricultural development progams would lie with SOCADA's



- 23 -
production department, which would be strengthened and improved under the
proposed project. Principal Innovations would be: emphasis on training and
upgrading of field staff sk-ills; a "whole farm" approach with greater
attention to food crops; introductlon of the "trainig and visit" system and
the improvement of field organization and input d-istribution. The extension
service would be organized as shown in Chart I. At the regional level, there
would be a regional chief assisted by support staff (secretary, accountant,
storekeeper, drivers). Each of the four regional chiefs would be responsible
for about six sector chiefs (24 in all, who would in turn lead about three to
four chiefs of zones (81 in all by PY4). The ratio of extension agents to
participating farmers would be 1:150 in the areas covered by the proposed
project and about 1:300 in the remaining cotton growing areas (para 4.07).
These ratios which are higher than in other producer countries in West Africa,
are made possible by the fact that farmers traditionally plant their crops in
adjoining fields. The addition of a secretary and a storekeeper at the
regional and sector levels (para 3.05) to administer the ordering, stocking,
bookkeeping and distribution of farm inputs would release more of the region
and sector chiefs' time to supervise extension activities. Under the
"training and visit" system, extension agents in each sector would meet twice
a week with sector and zone chiefs and trainers for training/demonstrations,
and to review the progress of the past period and set the program for the next
two weeks.  The training section would be responsible for preparing and
distributing literature, drawings and other aud0o-visual aids to the extension
agents. To upgrade the operational efficiency, it would also be essential to
establish a unified structure of the extension service -- under the full
technical, administrative and financial control of SOCADA -- by transferring
all IAE's seconded staff to SOCADA's regular labor force.  This rationaliza-
tion must be completed before project inception, to avoid undue delays in
starting field activities; it would therefore be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed IDA Credit (para 8.02).
4.07     SOCADA's Role Outside the Project Area.  In order to avoid over-
extending SOCADA during the proposed project, which would focus primarily on
institution building, project activlties would cover only selected areas of
the cotton zone and reach directly some 61,000 farm families or about 40
percent of its total population (para 3.02). However, in line with its
mandate and in order to facilitate the eventual integration of these farm
families in a possible follow-up project, SOCADA would continue to provide
support services to the remaining cotton growing areas. Assurances were
received from the Government at negotiations that:  (i) during the project
period, no new investments would be undertaken outside the project area
without prior approval by IDA; (ll) support services provided by SOCADA in
these areas would remain at current levels, both in terms of extension
coverage and input distribution; and (iii) adequate funding would be
available, from domestic or other external sources, to cover the full cost of
these services and inputs (para 8.01).
C. Input Distribution and Credit Terms
4.08     All production inputs (improved seeds, fertilizeer and pesticides)
would be distributed to farmers through the production department's field
extension system in coordination with the technical department



- 24 -
(transportation) and financial department (maintenance of accounts and
financing), supported at the field level by the regional and sector store-
keepers and additional field stores to be constructed under the propsoed
project (para 3.05). To facilitate input distribution to the extensionists,
each agricultural region would also be provided with two small trucks.
Improved food crops seeds would be sold to farmers on a cash basis, at a price
suff,cient to cover the variable costs of productlon (i.e., personnel costs).
Seasonal inputs (fertilizer and insecticides) would be provided on short term
credit covering the full cost to farmers of these inputs. Ox-drawn equipment
(i.e., yokes, carts, toolbars and seeders) would be supplied to farmers on a
medium term credit of up to three years covering up to the full cost of the
equipment. To be eligible for such credit, participant farmers would be
required to own one pair of oxen. As at present, all credit would be secured
by cotton and credit recovery effected at the time of seed cotton purchasing
by SOCADA staff. Improved seeds and seasonal inputs would also be provided by
SOCADA on cash basis only to non-cotton farmers in the project area. Assuran-
ces on the implementation of the above arrangements were received from
Government and SOCADA during negotiations (para 8.01).
4.09     The Government's policy has been that farmers should not be charged
interest on credit for seasonal inputs and farm equipment. Also, because
credit operations are entirely handled by SOCADA's regular field services, it
is estimated that the incremental costs to the company for credit administra-
tion are rather modest. However, the present interest policy involves a
considerable financial burden on SOCADA since it relies on short term notes
with local banks to prefinance these farm inputs. Thus, SOCADA and Government
have agreed to introduce a mark-up of 9 percent on the prices to farmers for
seasonal inputs, equivalent to an annual rate of interest of about 13.5
percent. To facilitate the introduction of a new interest rate policy, medium
term credit would also carry an interest rate of 9 percent p.a. Since the
domestic inflation rate was estimated at about 13 percent per annum over the
1980-82 period and it is expected to remain at this level during the project
period, there would be a subsidy element in the interest rate applied on
medium term credit.  However, this rate, which would be In line with the
preferential rates available to public enterprises (5 to 10 percent) and
equivalent to the actual financial cost incurred by SOCADA, represents a
significant improvement over the present policy. The small subsidy element is
also justified in the context of the Government's efforts to promote animal
traction so as to increase agricultural productivity and rural incomes.
Furthermore, over the project period, the level of the interest rate would be
kept under constant review and it would be reconsidered as and when the use of
oxen cultivation increases (para 8.01).
D. Staffing and Technical Assistance
4.10     Staffing and Technical Assistance.  The lack of experienced local
staff as a major constraint to the implementation of agricultural development
projects in the CAR. The Government is aware of this and agrees that the
criticEl shortage of technical and middle-management personnel can only be
alleviE,ted in the short term by technical assistance (para 1.12). Thus, to
ensure the successful implementation of the proposed project, the following
key project positions would continue to be filled with internationally



- 25 -
recruited specialists for periods of up to four years: the director of the
production department (para 3.05); the four regional chiefs and five of the
twenty-four sector chiefs (para 4.06); the three applied research specialists
(para 3.14); and the director of the feeder roads department and the two
workshop managers (para 3.16). The following positions, to be created under
the proposed project would also be filled with internationally recruited
specialists: the monitoring and evaluation specialist (para 3.24); the
project coordinator (para 3.25) and the two senior trainig officers (para
3.06). This would aggregate 74 man-years of resident expatriate staff, plus
consultancy visits amounting to 116 man-months including 10 man-months for
special studies and the preparation of a possible follow-up project (para
3.26).
4.11      Except for the hydrologist, who would be recruited separately by the
MAE's Genie Rural division, all resident expatriate staff would be recruited
by contract(s) between SOCADA and a firm, or group of firms, in order to
benefit from the back-up services provided under such an arrangement. IDA's
approval of the qualifications and experience of all technical assistance
staff and short term consultants would be obtained prior to their selection
and appointment (para 8.01). The signing of a satisfactory contract(s)
involving the following positions--the project coordinator, the monitoring and
evaluation specialist and the director of the production department would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (para 8.02).
4.12      One of the major obligations of the resident expatriate staff would
be to provide the in-service training of their Central African deputies to
facilitate an eventual transfer of responsibility. To this end, assurances
were received during negotiations that Government and SOCADA would appoint, or
cause to be appointed, at all times, key local staff with qualifications and
experience, and terms and conditions of employment acceptable to IDA (para
8.01).
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
A. Cost Estimates
5.01      Total financing required for SOCADA's activities over the 4-year
project period is estimated at CFAF 18.2 billion (US$51.2 million) with a
foreign exchange component of 46 percent or CFAF 8.4 billion (US$26.7
million).  This includes CFAF 1.5 billion (US$4.2 million) for the financial
rehabilitation of SOCADA (para 5.05) and CFAF 5.9 billion (US$17.3 million)
representing the present level of expenditures incurred by SOCADA outside the
project area (para 4.06) and the recurrent cost generated by the proposed
project, so that the project cost on an incremental basis is CFAF 10.5 billion
(US$29.7 million), of which 49 percent is foreign exchange cost and CFAF 0.7
billion (US$1.9 million) or 7 percent represents custom duties and
identifiable taxes.
5.02      Cost estimates are based on end-1982 prices and include physical
contingencies of 10 percent on all costs except local salaries, technical
assistance and consultants' services.  Price contingencies are as follows:



- 26 -
Expected Price Increases.
Annual Rates %                   1983      1984       1985       1986
Local Costs                        13        13         13         13
Foreign Costs                      8        7.5          7         6
Price increases for all foreign costs are based on estimates of international
inflation. The price escalation factor on local costs is based on estimated
annual inflation for the Central African Republic taking account of the
composition of local costs. Total contingencies are equivalent to 39 percent
of baseline cost estimates, or 28 percent of total costs. Detailed estimates
are presented in Annex Table 1 and are summarized below.
B. Proposed Financing
5.03     Project Costs.  External financing would cover 80% of net-of-tax
project costs or CFAF 7.9 billion (US$22.2 million). The remaining 20% would
be covered by SOCADA CFAF 1.8 billion (US$5.0 million) mainly representing the
project's local staff salaries and the farmers CFAF 0.2 billion (US$0.5
million). Given the CAR's present and medium-term budgetary difficulties,
Government's contribution to net-of-tax project costs would consist only in
CFAF 50 million (US$0.1 million), representing the salaries of Genie Rural's
staff and operating costs of the village water supply component.
5.04     Recurrent Costs.  Out of the total of CFAF 5.9 billion (US$17.3
million), local personnel costs and operating costs account for CFAF 1.9
billion (US$5.9 million). These would be borne by Government CFAF 1.6 billion
(US$4.5 million) for local salaries, and SOCADA CFAF 0.5 billion (US$1.4
million) for operating costs. The remainder represents non-incremental inputs
worth CFAF 4.0 billion (US$11.4 million). Given the country's present
budgetary difficulties, and in order to ensure the timely implementation of
the proposed project, Government has requested the assistance of the external
co-financiers in financing the recurrent input requirements. Thus, these
expenditures would be financed as follows: IDA CFAF 1.5 billion (US$4.2
million); FED CFAF 340 million (US$1.0 million); FAC CFAF 150 million (US$0.4
million); SOCADA CFAF 210 million (US$0.6 million); and farmers CFAF 1,860
million (U$5.2 million).
5.05     Financial Rehabilitation.  To assist in the financial rehabilitation
of SOCADA, which constitutes the precondition to a successful implementation
of the proposed project, CCCE has also agreed to contribute CFAF 1.5 billion
(US$4.2 million) in the form of a 30-year loan to SOCADA (para 4.05).
5.06     SOCADA's contribution of CFAF 2.5 billion (US$7.0 million) to total
cost would be equivalent to 60% of its net income from cotton processing and
marketing from PYO to PY3, Annex, Table 11. This net income is estimated on
the following assumptions:



Table 1:  Project Cost SIummary
CFAF MLllion        -        US$ '000 
Component                                             Total        Local       Foreign       Total
A. ProJect Coordination Unit                           159.5        190.9         258.5        449.3
B. P'roduction and Extension Services               2,248.1       3,267.7       3,064.9    6,332.5
C. Applied Research                                    694.8      1,030.3         926.9    1,957.1
D. Seed Production Unit                                251.5        420.6         287.7       708.3
E. Training                                            485.7        635.3         732.8    1,368.1
F. Feeder Roads Unit                                1,575.5       1,985.5       2,452.6    4,438.0
C. Mtonitoring and Evaluation Unit                     283.7        504.0         295.1       799.1
H. Aniimal Traction                                    132.5        189.4         183.8       373.2
I. Village Water Supply                               517.7         770.4         687.9    1,458.4
J. Ginning Factories                             r     322.7         87.4         821.6       909.1
K. Maintenance Workshop                                 65.8         84.3         101.2       185.4
L. Supply of Inputs                                   818.6         515.3       1,790.8    2,306.1
Total Base Cost                                  7,556.3      9,681.0      11,603.8   21,284.8
Physical Contingencies                             427.0        384.5          818.5    1,203.0
Price Contingencies                              2,546.0      4,942.4       2,229.6    7,172.1
Total Project Costs                             10,529.3    15,007.9       14.651.9   29,659.8
Non-Incremental:
- Salaries and Operating Cost               1,933.6       5,015.0         925.2    5,940.2
- Inputs                                     4,044.4      3,320.0       8,070.0   11,390.0
Financial Rehabilitationi SOCADA               _1,500.0       4,200.0           -        4,200.0
Total Costs                                     18,007.3    27,542.9       23,647.1   51,190.0
Percentage (Incl. Taxes)                           100           54            46          100
.Net of Taxes                                    17,065.3    24,892.9       23,647.1   48,540.0
Percentage (Net of Taxes)                              95           51             49         100



Table 2:  Proposed Financing Plan
(US$'000)
Component and Category of                 T.otal           IDA        FED           FAC         CCCE          BADEA       SOCADA    Government  Farmers
Expenditures                               Costs     _____
1. SOCADA's PCU, Seed Production
Unit, Training, M+E Unit
(a)  civil works                       130.0          90.0                                                                            40.0
(b)  vehicles and equipment            530.0         530.0
(c)  operating costs                 1,050.0         940.0                                                                           110.0
(d)  TA and consulting services   1,740.0          1,740.0
(e)  local personnel                 1,253.0                                                                            640.0        103.0      510.0
2. Production + Extension Servi-
ces and Applied Research            11,706.8                                   3,480.0      4,300.0                   3,216.8         710.0
3. Feeder Roads and Animal
Traction                             6,520.0                     4,820.0                                              1,080.0         620.0
4.  Ginning Factory Equipment and
Workshop                             1,510.0                                                             1,500.0                       10.0
5.  Village Water Supply                 2,280.0                                                             1,900.0                      380.0
6.  Incremental Inputs                   2,940.0       2,940.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 29,659.8       6,240.0       4,820.0       3,480.0      4,300.0      3,400.0      4,936.8       1,973.0      510.0
Non-Incremental:
Salaires/Operating Costs          5,940.2                                                                           1,473.2      4,467.0
Inputs                           11,390.0        4,160.0         980.0        420.0                                   590.0                 5,240.0
Financial Rehabilitation of
SOCADA                            4,200.0                                                4,200.0
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED            51,190.0      10,400.0       5,800.0       3,900.0      8,500.0      3,400.0      7,000.0    6,440.0    5,750.0



- 29 -
(i)    costs of cotton lint sold include all operating costs associated with
processing and marketing, and depreciation for industrial installa-
tions as well as SOCADA's truck fleet;
(ii)    financial charges include pre-financing costs for total requirements
of inputs (ordered and distributed by SOCADA);
(iii)    Government's export tariff on cotton lint continues to be only 2
percent; and
(iv)    all profit distribution would be suspended during the four-year
project period. An assurance to this effect was obtained from
Government and SOCADA during negotiations (para 8.01).
5.07     The proposed repartition of total cost financing amongst the five
external donors is based on amounts indicated by such donors and their
preferences as concerns project components and categories of expenditures to
be financed. These preferences have been tailored to the overall objective of
achieving an administratively simple financing plan, as detailed in Annex
Table 2. External contributions are: FED CFAF 2,050 million (US$5.8 million),
FAC CFAF 1,390 million (US$3.9 million), CCCE CFAF 3,000 million (US$8.5
million), and BADEA CFAF 1,197 million (US$3.4 million). Together with an IDA
Credit of CFAF 3,685 million (US$10.4 million) external financing amounts to
CFAF 11,326 million (US$32.0 million).
5.08     The contribution of FAC and FED would be grants whereas the terms of
the CCCE and BADEA's loans are still to be negotiated. The IDA Credit would
be on standard terms. Except for the CFAF 1.5 billion (US$4.2 million) part
of the CCCE financing which would be loaned to SOCADA for 30 years with a 10-
year grace period at 1 1/2% during the first 10 years and 2 1/2% thereafter,
the external funds together with Government's contribution, would be channeled
through the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement des Dettes de l'Etat CAADE), the
Government's agency for handling all official foreign financing, and passed on
to SOCADA as grants.
C. Pre-Financing
5.09     Government would pre-finance project expenditures out of a special
account to be set up at a commercial Bank acceptable to IDA for this
purpose. The amounts required would be determined according to quarterly
investment and operating budgets prepared by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU), and would be included in the national investment budget. The required
funds would amount to about CFAF 570 million (US$1.6 million), equivalent to
about six months of project expenditures net of seasonal inputs, capital
costs, technical assistance and consultant services which would be financed by
advances from co-financiers in amounts pro-rata to their respective shares of
financing for these project expenditures. Establishment of the special
account would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 8.02). For
purposes of verification of statement of expenditures against which IDA would
replenish its share of this account, Government would maintain a separate sub-
account for the US$0.1 million advanced by IDA.



- 30 -
5.10     SOCADA's Director General would draw from the special account to
establish and replenish a project bank account used to finance working
capital. Establishment of this project bank account and deposit by Government
of its initial contribution of CFAF 120 million (US$0.3 million) would also be
a condition of credit effectiveness. Moreover, these pre-financing arrange-
ments designed to minimize SOCADA's cash flow problems would be included in
the Convention between Government and SOCADA (para 4.01).
D. Procurement
5.11     Works. The construction of input stores, office buildings and the
renovation of staff houses, all estimated to cost US$0.3 million (IDA US$0.2
million), would be procured by local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to IDA.
5.12     Goods.  Vehicles, farm machinery and office equipment for the PCU,
Seed Production Unit, Training and M&E Unit, totalling US$0.5 million (IDA
US$0.5 million), would be procured by international competitive bidding in
line with IDA guidelines. Tenders would be grouped as far as possible in
appropriate bidding packages of US$100,000 or more to derive optimum benefit
from bulk procurement. Vehicles and equipment totalling US$3.4 million for
the remaining project components would be procured in line with co-financiers
guidelines. Procurement of seasonal inputs worth US$14.3 million (IDA US$7.1
million) would be procured by ICB according to IDA guidelines.
5.13     Services.  Contracts for 15.3 man-years of technical assistance for
the components financed by IDA, at an average cost of US$7,550 per man-month,
and 24 man-months of consultants services averaging about US$10,340 per man-
month (excluding contingencies) with a total value of US$1.7 million (IDA
US$1.7 million) would be procured in accordance with guidelines acceptable to
IDA. Remaining technical assistance and consultants services worth US$5.8
million would be procured according to the respective co-financiers
guidelines.
5.14     Others.  About US$21.0 million (IDA US$1.0 million) of project
expenditures representing local salaries and operating costs would be
committed in accordance with established Government procedures satisfactory to
IDA.
5.15     Contract Review.  All contract estimated to cost over US$100,000
equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review of procurement documenta-
tion, resulting in a coverage of about 85% of the total estimated value of
goods to be procured according to IDA guidelines. The balance of contracts
would be subject to random post-review by IDA.
E. Disbursement
5.16     IDA funds (US$10.4 million), including refunding of the PPF advance,
would be disbursed over a five-year period according to the disbursement
profile in Annex Table 14. The following expenditures would be financed:



- 31 -
Amount of Credit        % of
Expressed in US$    Expenditures
Category:                                             Equivalent            Financed
1. PCU, Seed Production Unit, Training
and M&E Unit
a) Civil Work                                     45,000            66
b) Vehicle & Equipment                           325,000           100
c) Operating Costs                               690,000            90
d) TA & Consultants Services                   1,450,000           100
2.  Seasonal Inputs                                     5,780,000             50
3.  Refunding of PPF Advance                            1,000,000             --
4.  Contribution to Revolving Fund                         100,000            --
5.  Unallocated                                         1,010,000             --
Total                   10,400,000
Disbursement for vehicles, equipment, technical assistance, consultants' ser-
vices and seasonal inputs would be against full documentation. Disbursements
for civil works, operating costs and local salaries would be against certified
statements of expenditures. Full supporting documentation, showing costs
incurred by category, would be retained for review by independent auditors and
IDA supervision missions. The Director of the Finance Department, working in
close collaboration with the Project Coordinator to be recruited under the
project, would be in charge of these statements to assure correct accountab-
ilility.
F. Financial Control, Audit, Reporting Requirements
5.17     SOCADA's accounting department is satisfactorily run by competent
staff. Since 1981 accounts are well kept by professionals (para 1.12).
Within the context of its financial accounting system, SOCADA would keep
records consistent with sound accounting practices and adequate to reflect
both the overall financial situation of the company and the detailed costs of
operating the project components. Moreover, SOCADA's existing cost accounting
system would be refined to allow accurate cost allocation to the diversified
activities associated with the de facto change in its role to that of a more
general development agency. Such improvements would be introduced and begin
to have an effect in SOCADA's 1983-1984 financial year.
5.18     A condition of credit effectiveness would be submission by SOCADA of
its audited 1981/82 financial statements (para 8.02). During the project
period, SOCADA's accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA. The audit report would contain an opinion about SOCADA's documenta-



- 32 -
tion in support of statements of expenditures against which reimbursement from
the co-donors were claimed. The report would be submitted to IDA within six
months following the close of SOCADA's financial year.
5.19     SOCADA would submit annual and quarterly progress reports to
Government, IDA and all co-financiers, showing actual and budgeted expendi-
tures, statements of physical progress achieved and objectives for the
forthcoming period by project component. These reports would contain summary
information on seasonal credit recovery, levels of short-term borrowing and
any outstanding receivables from Government with respect to budgetary
allocations for the project. Assurances to the above effects were obtained
during negotiations.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES, FARMER RETURNS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production
6.01     Adoption Rates and Production.  Projections of participating farmers
and production increases have been based on analysis by socio-economic zone,
of expected adoption rates and yield increases, taking into account agronomic
considerations, an analysis of farmer incentives, demographic characteristics
and the stimulus that would be provided through measures proposed under the
project. Full details are provided in the Project File; summary information
on expected participants is tabulated below:
Farm Units Assisted by the Project
('000)
PYO    PYl    PY2    PY3    PY4
Stage 0                 24.0   20.8   17.7   13.5    9.2
Stage 1                 19.0   22.0   24.0   26.0   28.0
Stage 2                 12.0   15.0   16.0   18.0   20.0
Stage 3                  2.5    3.1    3.2    3.4    3.7
Total                   57.5   60.9   60.9   60.9   60.9
% of Cotton Farmers       38      40     40      41      42
% of All Farmers          31      32     31      31      30
In 1982 an estimated 150,500 farm units were producing cotton with SOCADA's
assistance (details in Project File). Of these, 57,500 (38%) are located in
the proposed project area. By PY4, the number of farm units participating in
the project is projected to grow to 60,900 (42% of cotton growers), or one
third of the farm families in the project area. The increase (3,400) in
participating farm units would occur in PY1 and represent the traditional
cotton growers who have abstained, for socio-political reasons, from planting
cotton in 1981 and 1982 (para 2.08). However, the number of participating
farmers is not expected to increase over the 4-year projectD period.



- 33 -
6.02     It is expected that farmers would gradually improve their cultural
methods, as described in para 3.09, thereby increasing their average yields as
tabulated below. Cotton yield estimates are based on results obtained through
research and on yields achieved by progressive farmers prorated for the crop
husbandry performance of the average farmer. The food crop yield increase
assumptions are based on experience in the CAR and neighboring countries.
These increases should be attainable, given that SOCADA's food crop seed
production would be expanded under the proposed project and that appropriate
varieties are already being used successfully by SOCADA farmers (paras 2.15,
3.15).
Yield Estimates (kg/ha)
Achieved by
Stage 1       Stage 2         Stage 3      Progressive
Crop        Stage O      PYO    PY4   PYO      PY4    PYO       PY4    Farmers       Research
Cotton        300        400    550   600      750    800       950       1,100        2,500
Maize         800        900    950   950   1,100  1,000    1,200         1,600        2,500
Sorghum       700        700    750   800      850    800       900       1,200        2,000
Groundnuts    450        500    700   900   1,100  1,000    1,200         1,800        2,200
Upland Rice   700        700    850   800      950  1,200    1,200        1,500        2,000
6.03     The proposed project would have a significant impact orn the area's
production of seed cotton which would increase from 13,000 t to 20,000 t in
PY4, an increase of 7,000 t or 54 percent. Aggregate food production
(excluding cassava) of the participating families is projected to increase
from 22,500 t to 31,500 t in PY4, an increase of 9,000 t or 40 percent.
Expected Production (in t)
Crop                    Without Project           PY4       Incremental
t      %
Seed Cotton                   13,000             20,000      7,000   54
Maize                           2,600              3,200       600   23
Sorghum                        4,400              5,100        700   16
Groundnuts                    14,400             21,700      7,300   51
Paddy                          1,100               1,500       400   36
Sesame                            310                360        50   16
Cowpeas                           300                320        20    6
Cassava (Chips)               43,200             46,080      2,880    6



- 34 -
B. Markets and Prices
6.04      Cotton Prices and Market Outlook.  Cotton prices, as reflected in the
CIF North Europe quotations for Mexican Middling 1-3/32 inch quality, were
relatively stable during the 1960s and into the 1970s. Wide fluctuations in
cotton prices occurred from 1973 until the end of the decade in response to
unusual instability in commodity and currency markets. Between January and
December 1981, cotton prices declined by 28% due to a very large harvest and
only moderate growth in consumption. They remained severly depressed in 1982
(with actual prices averaging US cents 161/kg by the prolonged recession in
industrial activity and abundant supplies of fibers. The short-term price
projections basically reflect the relationships of cotton price: (a) world
production plus beginning stocks, (b) worldwide consumption of cotton, and (c)
the price of rayon man-made fibers. On the basis of these relationships and
of the expected movements of the explanatory variables, the prices used for
project analysis (Annex Table 5) assume only a small improvement over the next
few years, with cotton price projected to rise in constant 1982 dollar terms
from US cents 170.5/kg in 1983 to US cents 175.6/kg. The medium and longer-
term outlock reflects basically an equilibrium situation with world cotton
consumption projected to increase by 1.8% to 2.0% per year and world
production by about 1.9% per year to 1995.
6.05     After ginning and grading by SOCADA, all cotton lint is exported and
sold on the world market by CFDT, which operates as a marketing agent for
several of the African producer countries. CFDT groups cotton with similar
milling/ginning qualities and assures customers volumes consistent with
manufacturing needs. In the past, CFDT has been able to sell Central African
cotton at prices within the range established in world markets for similar
grades. These satisfactory arrangements are expected to remain in effect
under the proposed project.
6.06     Food Crop Prices and Marketing.  Marketing prospects for food crops
appear to be reasonably favorable given the projected resumption of economic
growth and the rate of population growth of 2.5% per year (of which urban
growth is estimated at 4-5% per annum). Furthermore, the principal food crops
to be assisted under the proposed project (cassava, maize, sorghum) are
essentially subsistence crops, and it is expected that the bulk of the
project's incremental production would be consumed on the farm. Thus, the
marketed share of incremental project production of food crops will consist
essentially of groundnuts and upland rice, for which there is a rising market
demand in urban areas and to meet the requirements of the local processing
industry. Based on past experience, it is estimated that the marketable
surplus production due to the proposed project can easily be absorbed through
the traditional marketing system which has largely been revitalized as a
result of improvement in the road network. These investments in infrastruc-
ture would be continued under the proposed project. In addition, SOCADA would
contribute to increased marketing efficiency through the establishment of a
market information system designed to inform producers of prices being offered
in various market centres, and to advise traders of quantities coming onto the
market. This information on the time and place of sale decisions would be
collected and disseminated by the production department, as it is presently
being done on a pilot scale with the GIRs.



- 35 -
6.07     The Government sets official producer prices for all food crops.  In
practice, however, market prices for food crops have usually been above the
official prices. There are also significant seasonal variations in accordance
with the cropping cycle, as well as spatial price spreads, largely due to the
transport costs of produce. Thus, food crop prices used in project analysis
take into account local market price levels and trends. For the economic
analysis these prices are assumed constant (in 1982 terms), since the expected
supply and demand prospects should ensure that the present firmness of the
local market continues. It may also be noted that the economic prices for
imported cereals (maize, sorghum) and groundnuts would be significantly above
local market prices.
6.08     Input and Cotton Producer Price Policy.  As part of a production
package, SOCADA provides cotton farmers with fertilizer and insecticides. For
the latter, the extension agent provides the sprayers, assist the farmers in
preparing (mixing) the solution and supervises the spraying, which is carried
out by the farmers themselves. The farmers are not charged for the use of the
sprayers. Fertilizer and insecticides prices are fixed annually by Government
decree. SOCADA recovers the farmers' input costs at the sale of seed cotton
at the marketplace, and the cost of the subsidy is to be covered out of its
budget. For the past campaign all fertilizers, irrespective of CIF import
prices, were provided to the farmers at CFAF 1,800 per 50 kg (CFAF 36/kg),
while insecticides (ULV) were provided at CFAF 1,800 for 3 treatments (CFAF
200/litre). The subsidy element on these prices is 72 percent on fertilizer
and 86 percent on insecticides, giving a (weighted) average subsidy level of
about 80 percent for these inputs. The financial implications of this input
subsidy policy are substantial. For the 1982/83 campaign SOCADA's payment for
the entire cotton zone amounted to about CFAF 370 million (US$1.1 million).
Over the 4-year project period and with the projected increase in input use
and prices, the estimated total cost of subsidies on these inputs would amount
to CFAF 3.2 billion (US$9.1 million) in current prices, not including the cost
of transport of inputs from Bangui to the farmers and the cost of sprayers.
This situation is untenable, the more so as the CSPPA is clearly unable (para
1.15) to reimburse SOCADA for the resultant operating deficits. It would,
therefore, be essential to modify the Government's input subsidy policy.
6.09     For the 1982/83 campaign, producer prices for cotton were increased
to CFAF 70/kg for white cotton and CFAF 60/kg for yellow cotton, resulting in
an average (weighted) price of CFAF 68.5/kg. However, an analysis of crop
budgets, based on current producer prices for cotton and market prices for
food crops, shows that the returns per manday for most food crops exceed that
of cotton (para 6.12). This could, at least in part, explain the declining
trend in cotton production. To provide the necessary incentives for farmers
to return to cotton production, it would be necessary to progressively
increase the producer prices of seed cotton during the project period. At the
same time significant subsidies would continue to be provided for agricultural
inputs, but these would be gradually reduced with a view to their being
totally phased out over a 7-year period. The subsidy reductions would be
coordinated with projected yield increases and producer price increases so as
to ensure that farmer returns per manday would increase sufficiently to
provide incentives to cotton producers. The following table summarizes a
proposed regime of (average) producer prices for seed cotton and inputs that
would meet these objectives (details in Annex Table 6).



- 36 -
Indicative Evolution of Cotton Producer Prices and Input Subsidies
(in CFAF at Current Prices)
PYO        PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4
Average Producer Price - Seed Cotton
- CFAF/kg                          68.5       78.5       90.0      105.0      120.0
- % CIF Price (N. Europe)          33.4       33.2       32.7       34.2       36.2
Producer Price - Insecticides
- CFAF/litre                      200.0      310.0      430.0    -635.0       935.0
- % CIF Price                      14.2       21.3       27.2       37.0       50.4
Producer Price - Fertilizer
- CFAF/kg                          36.0       50.0       75.0      105.0      145.0
- % CIF Price                      28.3       30.1       47.8       61.6       78.6
Total Farmer Contribution (%)                20.0       24.4       33-9       45.2       60.0
Total SOCADA Subsidy (%)                    80.0       75.6       66.1        54.8      40.0
6.10     The above adjustment in the Government's cotton pricing and input
subsidy policies would be supported by the external co-financiers (para
5.04). To this effect, Government would, over the 4-year project period: (i)
set seed cotton prices satisfactory to IDA and adequate to ensure cotton
production incentives; and (ii) progressively raise the producer prices for
fertilizer and insecticides to levels satisfactory to IDA, with a view to
reducing SOCADA's contribution to input costs. These prices would be
announced annually before the planting season and in any case not later than
May 1 of each year and this would be a condition of disbursement against input
expenditures (para 8.03).
C. Financial Results
6.11     Financial Results for Farmers.  Farmers' benefits were analyzed on
the basis of the four illustrative farm models below, representing typical
farms at the different stages of development. The underlying technical
assumptions are presented in the Project File. The financial assumptions are
as follows:
(i)    all input and output prices and farm family tax in constant 1982
levels; and
(ii)    interest charges on seasonal and medium term credit following terms
described in paras 4.08 and 4.09.



- 37 -
The analysis show that the adoption of improved techniques for cotton and food
crops would significantly increase the net family income, due largely to the
impact of improved cotton production. Thus, for example, the typical farm
family would more than double its net income by shifting from the traditional
husbandry (Stage 0) to the first stage of improved cultivation techniques, and
at the final development stage (oxen cultivation) the PY4 net farm income
would increase at least sixfold over the net income without the project.
There are, therefore, strong financial incentives for the families to
participate in the proposed project.
6.12     Annex Table 8 compares returns per hectare and per manday for the
various crops in constant 1982 prices. The results also show that there is a
strong financial incentive for farmers to adopt the proposed technical
packages. At the current farmgate prices, food crops offer higher returns per
manday than cotton, but expansion, except for groundnuts and upland rice
(paras 2.10, 6.06), is limited by the size of the domestic market and the lack
of export possibilities. Since it offers a guaranteed price and a secure
market outlet, cotton is, therefore, expected to remain the major source of
cash income in the project area. Nevertheless, a gradual increase in the
producer prices of seed cotton appears appropriate to ensure the incentives
for farmers to produce cotton and to compensate for the progressive removal of
input subsidies (para 6.09).



Table 3
Summary of Family Farm Budgets
(constant 1982 CFAF)
Without Project                             With Project (PY4)
Manual                    Improved Manual              Improved Ox-Drawn (III)
Traditional            I                II              Renters            Owners
Gross value of production 1/                 73,770              85,178           95,643            143,625           143,625
/2                /3
Production costs                                 800              1,700            3,800             22,495-           31,5253-
Net value of production                      72,970              83,478           91,843            121,130           112,100
Family consumption                           62,630              62,630           62,630             62,630            62,630
Cash income from production                   10,340             20,848           29,213             58,500            49,470
Cash income from outside plowing 4/              -                           -                 -                       30,000
Total cash income                            10,340              20,848           29,213             58,500            79,470
(of which: cotton)                         (9,720)            (17,438)         (22,188)          (52,775)           (52,775)
Taxes                                          1,800              1,800            1,800              1,800             1,800   X
5/I
Interest charges                                 -                   81              270              1,080             3,475
Net farm income                                8,540             18,967           27,143             55,620            74,195
Family labor (mandays/farm)                      152                171              182                206                206
Net value of production per manday               480                488              505                588               690 /6
Net income per manday                             56                111               149               270               360
1/ Net of seed requirements and storage losses.
2/ Including rental fee of CFAF 10,000/ha (cotton).
3/  Assuming a 5-year amortization period for the ox-drawn equipment (total value: CFAF 53,500); plus spare parts
anu repairs (10% of value of implements) and veterinary services and products (CFAF 1,500 per animal).
4/ Assuming 3 ha/year of outside plowing.
5/ Interest charges of 9% p.a. on seasonal credit (fertilizer, insecticides) and medium term credit (ox-drawn implements).
6/  Including cash income frorm outside plowing (CFAF 30,000).



- 39 -
6.13     SOCADA's Income Statement/Cash Flow.  The assumptions underlying
these projections are summarized above (para 5.06). The funds generated by
the project as shown by Annex Tables 11 and 12 would permit SOCADA to fully
pay for project related expenditures including input subsidies in PY5 and
thereafter. Moreover, there would remain a modest net income, 80% of which,
according to SOCADA's statutes,would be distributed to Government.
6.14     Government's Cash Flow.  An analysis of Government's cash flow
resulting from the project is given at Annex Table 13, and assumes that:
(i)    project expenditures include those for the four-year investment
period and incremental recurrent costs of maintaining services at
levels obtained by PY5;
(ii)    Government recovers taxes from project expenditures and recurrent
expenditures, and obtains external financing following conditions of
the IDA Credit, the CCCE, BDEAC and BADEA loans, and the FED and FAC
grants;
(iii)    subsidies on fertilizer decline to 20 percent and on insecticides to
50 percent by PY4, and remain at these levels;
(iv)    producer prices for seed cotton are being raised during the project
period as recommended in para 6.09;
(v)    SOCADA's accumulated losses are being partly absorbed by a loan of
FCFA 1,500 million (US$4.2 million) and its net income is being
retained during the project period to help finance project
expenditures (mainly local salaries, operating costs and subsidies on
input); and
(vi)    Government's export tariff on cotton lint would remain at the present
level.
Based on these assumptions, Government's net cash flow would begin to exceed
project related expenditures by PY5. Over a 15-year period Government would,
after contributing to recurrent project costs and servicing debts on the IDA
Credit and BADEA and CCCE loans, derive a total net cash flow, in constant
1986/87 terms, of some CFAF 3.4 billion (US$ 9.7 million) from project
production of cotton. This, would be made possible by projected, modest
increases in real terms of the world cotton prices and improved domestic
efficiency in the cotton sub-sector.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits and their Distribution
7.01     Expected benefits from the project would be both direct and
indirect. Direct economic benefits would be the expected increase in the
production of cotton and food crops in the project area. These benefits would
accrue at full development (PY4) to some 60,900 farm families, representing



- 40 -
about 40 percent of the cotton zone's population and 20 percent of the total
rural population of the Central African Republic. These families have annual
net farm incomes averaging only CFAF 77,300 (US$228) or about CFAF 13,500
(US$40) per capita, which would imply that most of their members are in the
absolute poverty group. The project would represent a significant beginning
in the reversal of past trends of declining agricultural production and rural
incomes in the cotton zone.
7.02     The project's directly quantifiable benefits would be through
increased production of cotton and food crops. By PY4, seed cotton production
is expected to increase by 7,000 tons (54%) over PYO production levels of
participating farmers. This would result in an annual increase in FOB exports
of cotton lint valued at about US$11.8 million in 1982 constant terms, which
is equivalent to 11 percent of the country's total exports in 1982. Food crop
production is expected to increase by about 12,000 t by PY4. The bulk of this
incremental production would be autoconsumed, thereby improving family
nutrition, and the remainder would be marketed domestically, mainly in urban
centres, thereby providing additional cash income for project beneficiaries.
The economic farmgate value, in constant 1982 terms, of project incremental
production by PY4 is estimated at about US$2.3 million for seed cotton and
US$2.0 million for food crops.
7.03     In line with the objectives described in para 5.01, the expected
indirect benefits through institutional reforms are at Icast equally
important. The proposed project would be the vehicle for introducing the
major operational and financial improvements needed to transform SOCADA into
an effective rural development agency capable of gradually expanding its
activities to the whole cotton zone. It would eliminate the uneconomic
duplication of extension services in this area so as to ensure the best use of
limited resources. The applied research and seed multiplication components
would provide the basis for further increases in productivity, hence for
longer term improvements. In addition, the water supply component of the
project would provide safe, clean water to rural areas, reduce time spent
fetching water and have significant long-term health benefits.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04     The project's economic rate of return has been calculated in constant
1982 terms over a 20-year period, based on a comparison of the economic cost
of project activities (including physical contingencies but not identifiable
taxes) and the expected incremental benefits. An exchange rate of CFAF 355:
US$1 has been used throughout. Details of the cost and benefit stream are
given in Annex Table 4.
7.05     Costs.  Economic costs were derived as follows:  (a) for PY1-4,
economic costs include the full cost of the project components, including the
cost of internationally recruited staff and consultants; (b) it is assumed
that project activities will be maintained at PY4 levels for the years PY5-
20. However, for PY5-7 economic costs reflect the expected gradual
localization of expatriate-held management and technical posts over this
period; (c) the rural road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance program has
been costed at 75 percent of the cost of this component, assuming that the



- 41 -
other 25 percent would be offset by user-cost savings to existing and future
non-project related traffic; (d) improvements in ginning factories and
transport maintenance workshops have been excluded from the cost stream on the
grounds that it would be difficult to allocate these costs between the
existing production outside the project area, the proposed expansion and any
further expansion of cotton production which might benefit from them; (e) the
cost streams exclude also the village water supply component, for which no
meaningful rate of return could be estimated because of the predominance of
non-quantifiable benefits; and (f) the maintenance components of the rural
roads and village water supply programs were retained in the post-project
period. Incremental family labor has been valued at CFAF 250 per day, which
is estimated to be the opportunity cost of farm labor. Staff salaries and
paid labor have been costed at actual costs net of taxes.
7.06      Benefits.  In calculating the economic rate of return, only the
project's directly quantifiable incremental benefits have been taken into
account. For all food crops, project benefits were taken as the incremental
production over PYO which was assumed as the "without projet" level. Cotton
presented a special case, as the CAR's total production, including production
in the project area, has declined sharply and steadily. The CAR's total
production, which was 58,700 tons in 1969, declined to 28,100 tons in 1977;
the decline in the last four years was from 32,150 tons to 16,800 tons, each
year registering a decrease. The estimate of production for PYO is 25,000
tons, of which 13,000 tons are expected to be produced in the proposed project
area. This increase is due to an intensified campaign by the Government to
increase cotton production, but it is doubtful that such a production level
could be maintained in subsequent years.  Therefore, in calculating the
incremental cotton production, the trend of decline of cotton production from
1969 to 1981 was used as the "without project" production level. Beginning in
PY1, a 4.1 percent p.a. decline was taken on the PYO level of the 13,000 tons
to derive the "without project" production as follows:
Cotton Production (tons)
PYO        PYl        PY2        PY3        PY4
With Project                  13,000    15,580    17,120    19,110    20,005
Without Project               13,000     12,474    11,955      11,465     10,995
Incremental Production                    3,106      5,165      7,645      9,010
7.07      Rate of Return.  Under these assumptions, the project is profitable
with a net present value of CFAF 1,991 million (US$5.6 million) and an econo-
mic rate of return (ERR) of 22 percent. This analysis includes the full costs
of the production-oriented components which account for 88 percent of total
base costs. When the applied research and training components (whose benefits
are long term) are excluded from the economic costs, the ERR rises to about 32
percent. A summary of results of the principal economic tests and switching
value for key variables is given below:



- 42 -
Summary of Economic Analysis
ERR(%)
1.       Base Estimate                                          22.4
2.       Variations in Costs and Benefits
Costs                     Benefits
+ 10%                     Unchanged                   16.7
+ 20%                     Unchanged                   11.9
Unchanged                 +10%                        28.8
Unchanged                 +20%                        35.5
+10%                      -10%                        10.0
Unchanged                 Lagged 1 year               14.0
+ 10%                     Lagged 1 year               10.3
3.       Switching Values (at 12% opportunity cost of capital)
- Cost must increase by 19.9%
- Benefits must decrease by 16.6%.
4.       Net Present Value:  CFAF 1,991 million (US$5.6 million), discounted
at 12%.
7.08     Sensitivity.  The project's economic viability is sensitive to
variations in costs and benefits, due mainly to the large values of the
extension, applied research and feeder roads components after the investment
period.  For instance, a 20 percent increase in costs would reduce the ERR to
12 percent, and a simultaneous 10 percent rise in costs and a one-year lag in
benefits would yield an ERR of 10.3 percent. Alternatively, an analysis of
switching values indicates that a rise of about 20 percent in costs or a
reduction of about 17 percent in benefits would bring down the ERR of the
project to 12 percent, which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
the Central African Republic. No sensitivity tests have been carried out for
variations in participation rates, since the project would focus only on
selected areas, and the number of participating farmers is not expected to
increase over the project period (para 6.01).
C. Project Risks
7.09     There are no major technological risks under the proposed project.
The proposed production packages for cotton and improved seed varieties for
food crops have been proven in the CAR and in other ecologically similar West
African countries, including neighboring Cameroon. Furthermore, the project's
sociological risks are relatively low since beneficiary farmers have been
selected in terms of their demonstrated receptivity to recommended technical
packages. Therefore, the major constraint to achieving the projected yield
improvements is the poor quality and inefficiency of SOCADA's extension
services. The proposed project would specifically address these deficiencies.



- 43 -
A systematic extension staff training program is expected to get underway
shortly, and the proposed project would provide further support for these
activities. Government and SOCADA have agreed that all key project posts
would, at all times, be filled with persons of experience and qualifications
acceptable to IDA, and the conditions of Credit effectiveness would include
the appointment of key technical assistance staff and the reorganization and
transfer of all extension staff under the full administrative and technical
control of SOCADA's production department.
7.10     The successful implementation of the proposed project would also
depend on the timely acquisition and distribution of production inputs. This
risk would be lessened by the repayment of the company's short-term debts and
the restoration of its capital reserves, thereby ensuring that adequate
funding is available to pre-finance these inputs. The establishment of a
special account, financed by advances from IDA, would also help to reduce this
risk by minimizing SOCADA's cash flow problems.
7.11     A significant risk facing the project is that given its present
financial situation, SOCADA may be overextended by the proposed agricultural
development program. Already during project preparation, the Government took
concrete measures to streamline and improve the efficiency of the company's
industrial and commercial operations. This, together with the restructuring
of the company, provision of technical assistance and introduction of cost
control measures would ensure an adequate and rising level of the self-
generated funds required to contribute to the financing of project expendi-
tures. To this end, Government and SOCADA have also agreed that: (i) SOCADA's
activities outside the project area would be maintained at present levels
during the project period; (ii) no new investments would be undertaken in
these areas over the project period without prior consultation with IDA; and
(iii) subsidies on fertilizer and insecticides would be gradually brought down
to about 40 percent, so as to lessen their impact on SOCADA's budget.
7.12     Financially, the project would generate satisfactory returns for both
the Government and the farmers. However, given the returns on the various
crops there is a risk, albeit limited by the size of the domestic market and
the lack of export possibilities, that farmers would switch out of cotton into
food crops. In view of the significance of cotton in the project, both with
respect to its share of incremental project benefits and its role as the lead
crop in the technology adoption process, it is, therefore, essential and
Government has agreed to gradually increase the producer prices for seed
cotton as recommended in para 6.10. At present, cotton growers receive only
about 70 percent of the estimated economic farmgate value of seed cotton
(Annex Table 5). As a result of the projected modest rise in world market
prices for cotton, and provided that cost savings materialize at the
processing and marketing stages, the net marketing surplus from the cotton
sector is expected to rise over the project period. This projected surplus
would allow for the recommended progressive increases in producer prices for
seed cotton without negative consequences for SOCADA's financial situation.



- 44 -
VIII. ASSURANCES, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01     At negotiations, agreement was reached with Government and SOCADA on
the following major points:
(a)    a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (PMEU) would be established
within SOCADA, under the direct administrative and technical respon-
sibility of its Director General (para 3.23); a detailed PMEU's work
program would be submitted to IDA for approval within six months of
the M&E specialist's arrival in Bangui, evaluation of data would be
summarized in the project's quarterly and annual reports, which would
be submitted to the Government and IDA, and in special reports to be
also submitted to them within three months of completion of the field
survey (para 3.24);
(b)    a project coordination unit (PCU) would be established within SOCADA,
to assist its Director General for overall coordination of project
activities and disbursement of funds (para 3.25).
(c)    the posts of Project Xanager and Project Coordinator would be filled
at all times by persons with qualifications and experience,and on
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (para 4.02);
(d)    during the project period, no new investments would be undertaken by
SOCADA outside the project area without prior consultation with IDA;
support services provided by SOCADA outside the project area would
remain at current levels, both in terms of extension coverage and
input distribution; and adequate funding would be available from
domestic or other external sources to cover the full costs of these
services and inputs (para 4.07);
(e)    improved food crop seeds would be sold to farmers on a cash basis, at
a price sufficient to cover the variable costs of production;
improved seeds and seasonal inputs would be provided on a cash basis
only to non-cotton farmers; participant farmers would be eligible for
short-term credit for seasonal inputs, and medium-term credit of up
to three years for ox-drawn equipment; all credit would be secured by
cotton and recovery effected at the time of cotton purchasing (para
4.08);
(f)    the sale price to farmers for seasonal inputs would include a mark-up
of 9 percent; all medium term credit would also carry an interest
rate of 9 percent, and the level of this interest rate would be kept
under constant review over the project period with a view to raising
it as and when the use of oxen cultivation increases (para 4.09);
(g)    Government and SOCADA would appoint, or cause to be appointed, at all
times, key local staff with qualifications and experience, and on
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12);
(h)    all profit distribution by SOCADA would be suspended during the 4-
year project implementation period (para 5.06);



- 45 -
(i)    over the 4-year project period, Government would undertake a staged
;,ncrease in producer prices for seed cotton in order to ensure cotton
production incentives; and subsidies on seasonal inputs for cotton
would be gradually reduced from about 80 percent in PYO to about 40
percent by PY4 and with a view to their total phasing out over a 7-
year period (paras 6.09, 6.10).
8.02     Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a)    signature of a satisfactory Convention between the Government and
SOCADA, determining SOCADA's tasks and responsibilities for the
execution and coordination of the project (para 4.01);
(b)    signature of a Protocol between SOCADA and ACADOP, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA (para 4.04);
(c)    the transfer of all the MAE's extension staff in the cotton zone to
SOCADA's regular labor force (para 4.06);
(d)    signature of a satisfactory contract or contracts involving the
following key technical assistance staff: project coordinator,
monitoring and evaluation specialist and the director of the
production department (para 4.11);
(e)    establishment of a special account at a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA (para 5.09);
(f)    establishment of a project bank account and deposit by Government of
its initial contribution of CFAF 120 million (para 5.10); and
(g)    submission by  SOCADA of its audited 1981/82 financial statements
(para 5.18).
8.03     A condition of disbursement against the expenditures for seasonal
inputs (fertilizer, and insecticides) would be the announcement not later than
May 1, by Government decree of input prices to farmers for the following
growing season judged satisfactory to IDA (para 6.10).
8.04     Under these conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of US$10.4 million.



ANNEX
Table I
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPONENT BY YEAR
(CF,.F Million)
Total          ------ US$ '000--------
COMPONENT                                              PYO          PYl          PY2          PY3           PY4         CFAF        (US$ '000)      Taxes       Foreign
A.  Project Management tlnit                                   -            33.9          30.2         65.1         30.2        159.4          449.3
B.  Production and Extension Services                          -           668.6         479.3        553.7        546.4      2,248.0        6,332.5
C.  Applied Research                                           -           200.8         164.3        165.4        164.3        694.8        1,957.1
D.  Seed Production Unit                                       -             77.5         69.2         52.7         52.1         251.5         708.3
E.  Training                                                   91.0        126.6         133.3         91.6         43.2        485.7        1,368.1
F.  Feeder Roads Unit                                          -           552.1         375.6        402.1        245.8      1,575.6        4,438.0
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                             32.1          88.0         61.3         66.5         35.7         283.6         799.1
H.  Animal Traction                                            -             26.1         54.8         28.7         22.9         132.5         373.2
I.  Village Water Supply                                       -            32.9         129.8        189.4        165.6        517.7        1,458.4
J.  Ginning Factories                                          -           108.5         214.2         -            -           322.7          909.1
K.  Maintenance Workshop                                       -             17.1         43.8          5.0                       65.9         185.4
L.  Supply of Inputs                                          563.9          88.9         70.0         95.9         -            818.7       2,306.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                          687.0      2,021.0      1,825.8      1,716.1       1,306.2      7,556.1      21,284.8
Physical Contingencies                                     63.5        121.6         97.2          84.1         60.7        457.1       1,203.0
Price Contingencies                                        69.8        403.3        560.3        749.8         762.8      2,546.0       7,172.1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                       820.3      2,545.9      2,483.3      2,550.0       2,129.7      10,529.2    29,659,8         1,940.0       14,651.5
Non-Incremental:
- Salaries & Operating Cost                           -           381.5         469.9        502.7        579.6      1,933.7         5,940.2
- Inputs                                             273.3        882.9      1,164.1       1,724.1         -         4,044.4        11,390.0
Financial Rehabilitation of SOCADA                         -         1,500.0         -             -            -         1,500.0         4,200.0
TOTAL COSTS                                             1,093.6      5,310.3      4,117.3      4,776.8       2,709.3    18,007.3         51,190.0      2,653.8       23,647.1
a, z



- 47 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                          aNNeX
Table 2
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCING BY COMPONENT AND EXPENDITURE CATETORY
-------- Total -------  ------------------------------------------------ CFAF Million  -------------------------------------------
Component and Expendit-re                     CFAF (n)       US5 (a)   Gover-m-otll    SOCADA        Farners          IDA          FED          FAC            CCCE         BADEA
A. Project ManagemenDt Unit
Vehicles                                 4.9        0.02              -              -4.9                                    ----
Operating Cost                          30.4        0.09              1.4            -           _            29.0
Local Personnel                          2.3        0.01              0.3            2.0                        -
TA & Consultants' Services             189.7        0.52              _              _           _           189.7 
Slb-Total A                        227.3        0.64             1.7             2.0         -           223.6
B. Production and Eotessi-n Services
Buildings                               55.2        0.16             17.7            -           -             -             -            -            37.5
Vehicles and Eqoipment                 473.4        1.33              -              -           _             _             _            _           473.4
Operating Cost                         752.7        2.12             99.3          184.3         -              -            -            _           469.1
Local Personnel                      2,960.3        8.34         1,671.6         1,288.7                                                                -
Teohnical Assistasne                 1.046.5        2.95              -              -           _             _             -          526.5         520.0 3
Slb-Total B                     5,288.1        14.90         1,788.6        1,473.0          -             -            -          526.5        1,500.0
C. Applied Research
Buildings                               24.7        0.07              7.9            -           -              -            -           16.8           -
Vehioles and Eqoipment                  27.4        0.08              -              -           -              -            -           27.4
Operating Coot                         195.7        0.55             17.7            -           -              -            -          178.0
Local Personnel                        248.1        0.70             32.2          215.9                                                  -
Technical Assistance                   491.5        1.39              -              -           -              -            -          491.5
Sob-Total C                        987.4        2.79            57.8           215.9         -             -            -          713.7
D. Seed Production Unit
Ruildings                               11.3        0.03              3.6            -           -              7.7
Vehicles and Equipment                  58.4        0.16              -              -           -             58.4
Operating Cost                         130.9        0.37             11.0            -           -           119.9
Local Personnel                        186.5        0.53              -              -         186.5            -
Slb-Total 1                       387.1         1.09            14.6             -         186.5         186.0
F. Training
Vehicles and Equipment                  92.8        0.26              -              -           -            92.8
OperatiOg Cost                         154.5        0.44             17.7            -           -           136.8
Local Personnel                         88.5        0.25             10.2           78.3                        -
TA and Connultants Services            309.5        0.87              -              -           -           309.5           -----
Sob-Total E                       645.3         1.82            27.9            78.3         -           539.1
F. Feeder Roads Unit
Buildings                               24.3        0.07              7.8            -           -              -           16.5
Vehicles and Equipment                 254.2        0.72              -                                         -          254.2
Operating Cost                       1,109.1        3.12            147.4            -           -              -          961.7
Local Peroonnel                        384.2        1.08             43.1          341.1                                     -
Technical Assistasnc                   348.9        0.98              -              M           -              -         348.9
Sob-Total F                     2,120.7         5.97           198.3          341.1          -             -        1,581.3
G. M & E Unit
BuildinRg                               34.0        0.10             10.9            -           -            23.1           -
Vehicles and Equipment                  30.2        0.09              -              -           -            30.2
Operating Cost                          54.6        0.15              7.3            -           -            47.3
Loral Personnel                        167.5        0.47             19.9          147.6                        -
Technicel Assintance                   108.6        0.30              -              -           -           108.6           ----- 7
Sob-Total G                       394.9         1.11            38.1          147.6          -           209.2                                                    -
H. Animal Traction
Buildings                               40.0        0.11             12.8            -           -             -            27.2
Vehicles and Equipment                  74.7        0.21              -              -           -              -           74.7
Operating Coot                          33.0        0.09              2.9            -           -              -           30.1
Local PFrnoonel                         48.1        0.14              5.8           42.3         -             -             -           _            -               -
Sob-Total H                       195.8         0.55            21.5           42.3          -             -          132.0          -              -             -
I. Villace Water Suppl
Vehicles and Equipment                  92.6        0.26              --                                                     - _  _                                  92.6
Operating Cist                         475.3        1.34             68.6            -           -              -            -            -             -           406.7
Local Personnel                         61.9        0.17             61.9            -
Consultants Services                   181.2        0.51              -              -           -             -             -            -             -           181.2
Sob-Total I                       811.0         2.28           130.5             -           -             -            -            -              -          680.5
J. Gincin FPartory
Equipment                              441.6        1.24              -              -           _             _             -            -             -           441.6
K.  Maintenance Wborkshop
Buildings                               59.5        0.17             19.0            -           -             -             -            -             -            40.5
Vehicles and Equipment                  34.8        O.10              -              -          _               -            -            -             -            34.8
Slb-Total K                         94.3        0.27            19.0             -           -             -            -            -              -           75.3
L. Inputs
-  Incremental                       1,044.4        2.94              -              -           -         1,044.4                        -                           -
-  Non-Incremental                  4,044.4        11.39              -            211.0    1,860.0        1,482.7        340.7         150.0
Sob-Total L                     5,088.8        14.33             _            211.0    1,860.0        2,527,1         340.7        150.0            -
M.  Financial Rehabilitation SOCADA           1,5500.0       4.20              -              -                 -             -            -      -          1,500 ,0
TOTAL COSTS                         18,182,3       51.19         2.298.0         2,511.2    2.046.5        3,680.0      2,054.0       1.390.2       3.000.0       1.147.A
US$ THOUSANDS                       51,200.0                     6,450.0         7,000.0    5,750.0       10,400.0      5,800.0       3,900.0       8,500.0       3,400.0



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Production and Yields
Crop                                      1969      1970      1971       1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       1978      1979      1980       1981
Production ('000 t)                     58.7      53.6      46.3      51.8       45.7      47.5      33.1      41.0      28.1       32.2      27.8      22.6      16.8
Acreage ('000 ha)                      134.1    125.9    133.5    135.5    125.0    134.8    135.6    135.0    122.5    109.9                 83.7      82.2       51.8
Yield (kg/ha)                          438.0    425,0    347.0    382.0    366.0    353.0    244.0    297.0    229.0    293.0                332.0    275.0      324.0
Producer Price - White  (CFAF/kg)   30.0          31.0      31.0      31.0       45.0      45.0      50.0      50.0      50.0      50.0       60.0      60.0      70.0
Yellow (CFAF/kg)   22.0        22.0      22.0      22.0       35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0      35.0       45.0      45.0      55.0
(D



- 49 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                ANNEX
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                         Table 4
Key Indicators of Cotton Production by Administrative Provinces
Average                   *
1977     1978      1979      1980   1977-80    1981        1982
OUHAM PENDE
Farmers ('000)               52.0      46.5      43.6      46.6      47.2      22.3        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)            28.0      26.8      22.1      24.0      25.2      10.3      13.0
Production ('000 t)           5.7       7.6       6.5       6.4       6.6       2.5       4.1
Yield (kg/ha)               204.0    284.0    284.0    268.0    260.0    245.0    315.0
OUHAM
Farmers ('000)               57.5      58.7      43.2      49.2      52.2      24.7        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)            33.7      31.6      21.7      23.0      27.5      12.0      14.2
Production ('000 t)           5.3       5.9       4.5       5.2       5.2       3.2       4.8
Yield (kg/ha)               158.0    186.0    207.0    226.0    194.0    257.0    338.0
GRIBINGUI ECONOMIQUE
Farmers ('000)               15.5      18.8      15.4      13.0      15.7      10.3        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)             9.2       8.4       7.4       6.6       7.9       5.3       6.3
Production ('000 t)           4.6       2.5       4.4       2.6       3.5       2.0       2.8
Yield (kg/ha)               500.0    300.0    676.0    390.0    467.0    377.0    444.0
KEMO GRINBINGUI
Farmers ('000)               16.3      16.1      14.2      11.7      14.8       8.8        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)             8.3       7.2       7.0       6.1       7.2       4.4       5.5
Production ('000 t)           3.7       3.5       3.4       1.9       3.1       1.9       2.9
Yields (kg/ha)              445.0    493.0    586.0    311.0    459.0    419.0    527.0
OUAKA
Farmers ('000)               46.4      44.1      37.0      37.4      41.2      36.9        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)            20.9      22.8      15.7      14.9      18.6      14.8      17.3
Production ('000 t)           5.1       8.1       5.3       4.5       5.8       5.8       6.8
Yield (kg/ha)               242.0    357.0    338.0    339.0    319.0    390.0    393.0
BASSE KOTTO
Farmers ('000)               30.3      28.2      17.3      16.7      23.1      14.8        NA
Acreage ('000 ha)            12.5      13.4       8.3       7.5      10.4       5.1      10.0
Production ('000 t)           2.8       2.8       3.0       1.6       2.6       1.4       3.3
Yield (kg/ha)               222.0    286.0    361.0    213.0    270.0    275.0    330.0
Total (Cotton Zone)
Farmers ('000)              218.0    212.4    170.8    174.6    193.9    117.7             NA
Acreage ('000 ha)           112.6    110.2       82.2      82.2      96.8      51.8      66.3
Production ('000 t)          27.2      30.4      27.2      22.2      26.8      16.8      24.7
Yield (kg/ha)               242.0    276.0    330.0    270.0    280.0    324.0    373.0
Total Production (CAR)          28.1     32.2      27.8      22.6      27.7      16.8      25.0
*
Estimate



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cotton Price Structure
(constant 1982 terms)
Financial Prices                                       Economic Prices
1982/83       PYl           PY2          PY3          PY4          PYI           PY2          PY3          PY4
COTTON LINT
Ref. price (Mexican Middling 1-3/32")
CIF N. Europe 1/                          US$/MT       1,706       1,727         1,754        1,756        1,756
CIF N. Europe 2/                         CFAF/MT    605,630    613,085        622,670       623,380      623,380
Less: Quality Adjustment                       "         41,183      41,690       42,342       42,390       42,390
Plus: Linters                                             3,270       3,311        3,362       _3366         3,366
Value CAR Lint CIF N. Europe                           567,717    574,706        583,690      584,356      584,356
Freight, transit and insurance                 "         37,957      37,957       37,957       37,957       37,957
Selling Costs (2.3%)                           "         13.057      13.218       13.425       13,440       13.440
Adjustment from CIF to FOB                               51,014      51,228       51,498       51,465       51,465
Value CAR Lint FGB                             "       516,703    523,478        532,192      532,891      532,891      523,478       532,192      532,891    532,891
Export Duty (2%)                               "         10,334      10,470       10,461       10,658       10,658          -            -            -            -
Ginning Costs                                           74,854      72,450        71,526       70,446       70,080       56,644        53,870       51,073      49,723
Transportation handling
Ginnery to FOB 3/                                     51,344      51,344        51,344       51,344       51,344       49,928        49,928       49,928      49,928
Farmers to Ginnery 3/                                 64,822      61,489       60,921        59,758       58,709       51,165       50,693        49,725      48,852
Overhead expenses                              "        36,921      32,453        30,535       28,418       27,527       32,453        30,535       28,418      27,527
Financial Charges                                        8.464       f6697         6,738      72120          7,660        6,697         6,738        7,120       7,660
Total Costs                                            246,729    233,026        231,026      227,744      225,978      196,887       191,764      186,264    183,690
Farmgate Value
Lint                                     CFAF/MT    269,974    290,452        300,484       305,147      306,913      326,591      340,428       346,627    350,201
Seed cotton equivalent                   CFAF/kg           99.9      107.5         111.2        112.9        113.6        120.8         126.0        128.3       129.6
Farmgate Value                             CFAF/kg           99.9       107.5        111.2        112.9        113.6
Farmgate Price                                "              68.5        68.5         68.5         68.5         68.5
Marketing Surplus                                            31.4        39.0         42.7         44.4         45.1
1/  IBRD projections (December 21, 1982)
2/  Exchange rate: CFAF 355 - US$1.0                                                                                                                                  190
3/  Includes turnover tax                                                                                                                                               X
ax



- 51 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC                             ANNEX
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                        Table 6
INPUT COSTS AND SUBSIDIES
(in current prices)
PYO          PY1          PY2           PY3          PY4
CIF Input Prices
ULV/litre                                          1,400        1,450         1,580        1,715        1,855
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate (2:1)/kg                        101.6        133           145          158          171
NPKSB/kg                                             174          165           180          195          211
Subsidized Prices
ULV/price 1/                                         200          310           430          635          935
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate (2:1)/kg 2/                      36           50            75          105          145
NPKSB/kg 2/                                           36           50            75          105          145
Volume Distributed
ULV (1,000 1)                                        197          388           396          411          428
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate (t)                             974.9      1,505        1,260         1,370        1,486
NPKSB (t)                                            500          620           640          680          740
Total Cost ('000 CFAF)                                 463.1        865.1         923.6      1,054.0      1,204.1
ULV                                                  275.7        562.6         625.7        704.9        793.9
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate                                 100.4        200.2         182.7        216.5        254.1
NPKSB                                                 87.0        102.3         115.2        132.6        156.1
(Total Farmer Contribution ('000 CFAF)                  93.1         211.5        312.8        476.3         722.9
ULV                                                   39.4        120.2         170.3        261.0        400.1
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate                                  35.7         60.3          94.5        143.9        215.5
NPKSB                                                 18.0         31.0          48.0         71.4        107.3
Total Farmer Contribution (%)                           20.0          24.4         33.9         45.2         60.0
ULV                                                   14.2         21.3          27.2         37.0         50.4
Urea/Ammonia Sulfate                                  35.5         30.1          51.7         66.5         84.8
NPKSB                                                 20.6         30.3          41.7         53.8         68.7
Total SOCADA Payment (%)                                80.0         75.6          66.1         54.8         40.0
1/ Adjusted at the average rate of about 46% p.a.
2/ Adjusted at the average rate of about 42% p.a.



- 52 -
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
ANNEX
COTTON PRODUCER PRICES, INPUT PRICES AND SUBSIDY LEVELS                 Table 7
RETURNS PER HECTARE AND MANDAY
(in CFAF)
PY0         PYl          PY2         PY3          PY4
Cotton Lint Prices
Cotton lint: Average CIF price N.Eur. (CFAF/kg)lf          553         639           744         831          895
Seed cotton equivalent                    (CFAF/kg)        205         236           275         307          331
Producer price seed coton                 (CFAF/kg)         68.5         78.5         90.0       105          120
Intensive Stage B
Yield kg/ha                                                400         450          500          550          550
Gross cash return/ha                                    27,400      35,325       45,000      57,750        66,000
Producer cost insecticide                                1,800       2,790        3,870       5,715         8,415
Net cash return                                         25,600      32,535       41,130      52,035        57,585
Mandays                                                    123         127          131          133          133
Return/manday                                              208         256          314          391          433
Intensive Stage C
Yield kg/ha                                                600         650          700          750          750
Gross cash return/ha                                    41,100      51,025       63,000      78,750       90,000
Producer cost insecticide                                2,400       3,720        5,160       7,620       11,220
Producer cost fertilizer                                 3,600       5,000        7,500      10,500        14,500
Net cash return                                         35,100      42,305       50,340      60,630        64,280
Mandays                                                    135         138          140          143          143
Return/manday                                              260         307          360         424           450
Intensive Stage D
Yield kg/ha                                                800         850          900          950          950
Gross cash return                                       54,800      66,725       81,000      99,750      114,000
Producer cost insecticide                                3,000       4,650        6,450       9,525       14,025
Producer cost fertilizer                                 7,200      10,000       15,000      21,000       29,000
Cost of hire animal traction                            10,000      10,000       10,000      10,000       10,000
Net cash return                                         34,600      42,075       49,550      59,225       60,975
Mandays                                                     96          98          100          103          103
Return/manday                                              360         429          496         575           592
1/ Based on December 1982 IBRD projections (Mexican 1-3/32) and adjusted for quality differential.
It is assumed that production is sold at a ratio of 50/50 to the price prevailing in the fiscal year
and the price prevailing in the previous year.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Cash Returns For the Various Crops
(constant 1982 CFAF)
Improved Manual                     Ox-Drawn
Traditional (Stage A)                       I                               II                               III
Crop            Per hectare      Per manday      Per hectare      Per manday       Per hectare      Per manday      Per hectare       Per manday
Cotton             19,550            199            34,713             265            43,835             307            41,695             405
Groundnuts         17,200            229            29,500             355            49,500             510            54,500             545
Sorghum            30,750            370            32,950             388            37,450             426            39,700             441
Maize              33,900            408            40,450             482            47,200             549            51,700             594
Sesame             27,725            478            30,575             527            37,225            642             37,225             642
Upland rice        51,600            543            63,900             639            72,900             694            95,400             852
Cassaval/         134,700            929           134,700             929           134,700             929           134,700             929
1/  Family labor used in the analysis does not include the mandays required for making chips.
It
U,n
H >4I



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
INTEGRATED RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN COTTON AREAS
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Constant 1982, CFAF miXlion)
PYl          PY2          PY3           PY4          PY5           PY6          PY7           PY8-20
A.  ECONOMIC COSTS
Project Management Unit                                  33.9-       30.2         65.1          30.2          -              -            -             -
Production and Extension Services                      668.6        479.4        553.7        546.3         326.5          278.7        234.7         234.7
Applied Research                                       200.8        164.3        165.4         164.3        164.3          150.0        150.0         150.0
Seed Multiplication Unit                                77.4         69.2         52.7         52.0          52.0           51.3         51.3          51.3
Training                                               217.6        133.3         91.6          43.2         43.2           39.3          39.3         39.3
Feeder Roads Unit                                      414.0        281.7        301.6         184.3        150.7          147.0        147.0         147.0
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit                          120.2        61.3         66.5          35.7         35.7           35.4          35.4         35.4
Animal Traction                                         26.1         54.8         28.7          22.9         22.9           12.8          12.8         12.8
Supply of inputs                                       563.9         88,9         69.9          95.9         95.9           92.7          92.7         92.7
Total Baseline Costs                               2,322.5    1,363.1       1,395.2       1,174.8        891.2          807.2         763.2        763.2
Plus Physical Contingencies                          157.9         72.2         68.4         54.0          49.0           44.7         42.2          42.2
Less Taxes                                           126.5        130.6        150.8        154.8         118.5           55.6         52.5          52.5
Plus Incremental Labor                               177.2       202.9         248.9        278.8         278.8          278.8        278.8         278.8
Total Economic (osts                               2,531.1    1,507.6        1,561.7      1,352.8       1,100.5       1,075.1       1,031.7       1,031.7
B.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS
Cotton (Incremental Production) (t)                  3,106        5,165         7,645        9,010         9,010        9,010         9,010        9.010
Economic Farmgate Price                                120.8         126.0        128.3        129.6         129.6        129.6         129.6         129.6
Benefits                                         375.2         650.8        980.9      1,167.7       1,167.7       1,167.7      1,167.7       1,167.7
Manioc (Incremental Production) (t)                  2,880        2,880         2,880        2,880         2,880        2,880         2,880        2,880
Benefits (75CFAF/kg)                             216.0         216.0        216.0         216.0        216.0         216.0        216.0         216.0
Groundnuts (Incremental Production) (t)              1,580        3,230         4,870        7,300         7,300        7,300         7,300        7,300
Benefits (50 FCFA/kg)                              79.0        161.5        243.5         365          365           365          365           365
Maize (Incremental Production) (t)                     209           301          436          583           583          583           583           583
Benefits (45 FCFA/kg)                               9.4         13.5          19.6         16.2         26.2          26.2         26.2          26.2
Sorghum/Millet (Incremental Production)(t)             322          466           547          698           698          698           698          698
Benefits (45 FCFA/kg)                              14.5         21.0         24.6          31.4         31.4          31.4         31.4          31.4
Sesame (Incremental Production) (t)                     69           113          137          196           196          196           196           196
Benefits (95 FCFA/kg)                               6.6         10.7          13.0         18.6         18.6          18.6         18.6          18.6
Paddy (Incremental Production) (t)                      80           157          250          375           375          375           375           375
Benefits (90 FCFA/kg)                               7.2         14.1          22.5         33.7         33.7          33.7         33.7          33.7
Cowpeas (Incremental Production) (t)                    20            20           20           20            20           20            20            20
Benefits ( 90 FCFA/kg)                              1.8          1.8           1.8          1.8          1.8           1.8           1.8          1.8
TOTAL ECONOMIC BENEFIT                               704.7      1,089.4       1,521.9      1,860.4      1,86U.4       1,860.4      1,860.4       1,860.4
NET ECONOMIC BENEFIT                              -1,826.4       -418.2         -39.8        507.6         759.9        798.5         839.9        839.9



ANNEX
Table 10
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCADA BALANCE SHEET
(rCFA Million)
---------------- Actual ----------___----                         ---------------------------------Projected----------------------------------
10-31-80           10-31-81           10-31-82                    10-31-83           10-31-84            10-31-85           10-31-86            10-31-87
FY O               FY 1               FY 2                FY 3                FY 4
Cash                                     80                370                  25                        264                 498                528                 540                 461
Receivables                             298              1,162               2,043                         500                640                 755                890               1,015
Inventory                             3,785              3,080               2,700                      3,319               4,264              5,035               5,916               6,763
Prepaid expenses                          3                  97                101                           -                  -                   -                  -
Current Assets               4,166               4,709              4,869                       4,083              5,402              6,318               7,346               8,239
Net Fixed Assets                        914                 707                900                         750              1,318              1,540               1,386               1,116
Participations                           43                 43                  43                          43                 43                  43                 43                  43
Guarantees                               27                  27                 27                           -                  -                   -                  -                   -
Capital increase Costs                   23                   -                                -                                -                   -                  -                   -
Fixed Assets                 1,007                 777                970                         793              1,361               1,583              1,429               1,209
TOTAL ASSETS                          5,173              5,486               5,839                      4,876               6,763              7,901               8,775              9,448
Short-term debts                      2,962              2,056               3,111                         220                 80                100                 290                 157
Accounts & Notes Payable                515                 887              1,020                         606                690                 790                955               1,065
Accruals                                547                569                 660                         250                440                 510                460                 390
Income of other Taxes                    95                 62                  35                           -                  -                   -                  -                   -
CFDT                                    523                221                 200                           -                  -                   -                  -
Current Liabilities          4,642               3,795              5,026                       1,076              1,210               1,400              1,705               1,612
Long-term Debt
CCCE                                      -                891               1,000                      1,950               2,700              2,700               2,700               2,700
FAC (Subvention)                        213                213                 213                         170                130                  90                 50                   -
FED (Ginneries)                           -                   -                  -                          97                237                 498                468                 448
Long-term Debt                  213              1,104              1,213                       2,217              3,067               3,288              3,218               3,148
CAPITAL                               1,000              1,000               1,000                       1,000              1,000              1,000               1,000               1,000
Reserves 1/                               -                   -                                            485                704                 767              1,034               1,985
Retained earnings (loss)               (682)               (413)            (1,400)                         98                782              1,446               1,818               1,703
Net Worth                       318                587               (400)                      1,583              2,486               3,213              3,852               4,688
TOTAL LIABILITIES IN NET WORTH        5,173              5,486               5,839                      4,876               6,763              7,901               8,775               9,448
I/ Represents grants passed on by Government on account of project lending by external donors.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCADA INCCHE STATEMENT
Actual                     - ----------------------Projected/  ----            ---     -
10-31-80     10-31-81      10-31-82       10-31-83      10-31-84      10-31-85      10-31-86      10-31-87        10-31-88      10-31-89
PYO           PY1           PY2           PY3           PY4            pym/i0        PY6
Revenues
Cotton lint                                          3892             4734          3065            5014          6632          8108          9620         10560          10560         10560
By products                                           106              111            90             140           180           220           260           290            290           290
Other                                                   67             298             -               -             -             -             -
Total                                           4065            5143          3155            5154          6812          8328          9880         10850           10850         10850
Costs of goods sold
Raw cotton/   oc     n  /g                               -               -             -            1713          2244          2649          3279          3827           3827          3R27
Raw material/pro essinS-                              i883            2375          1940             678           773           851           935          1047           1047          1047
Transport                                              581             712           516            1110          1306          1486          1685          1853           1853          1R53
Other services, subsidies-/6                           462             654           370             353           427           487           563           626           1310          1310
Other charges                                          119             149           124              78            84            97           114           131            131           131
Personnel costs a                                      816             962           880             429           476           517           591           660           1145          1145
Taxes and fees/7                                       161             145           162             233           279           313           351           381            381           381   0'
Financial charges                                      542             280           120             203           180           190           213           234            215           200
Depreciation /3                                        215             305           383             259           261           292           331           388            313           313
Total                                           4779            5582          4555            5056          6030          6882          8062           9147          10222         102n7
NET INCCME (Loss) /9                                    (714)           (439)        (1400)             98           782          1446          1818          1703           '628            643
Lint price US i/kg (current)                                                           161             185           215           251           270           290L'
Quality adjustment 0.9 at FCFA 355                                                     493             591           687           802           863           927
Production t                                                                         16800           25000         28055         29435         31230         31890
Lint (37%)                                                                            6216            9250         10380         10891         11555         11799
Raw cotton, producer price                                                               -              68.5          80.0          90.0         105.0         120.0
1/  Partially estimated by appraisal mission.
2/  To arrive at revenues, it is assumed that any given vear the production is sold at tle ratio ef 50/50 to the price
prevailing in the year of production'.and the price prevailing in the following year.                               pe
3/  On non-project assets, shall be utilized to renew SOCADA's existing truck fleet.
4/  Included in raw material/processing in FY 80-81 and 82.
5/ From PYO onwards processing only.
6/  Insurance, freight, transit charges from PY5 onwards including subsidies on input.
7/  Export duties, commissions and sales personnel.
8/ Excluding project during PYO - PY4, thereafter project cost included.
9/ 75% of cumulative net income over PYO - PY3 towards financing of project cost, 80% thereafter to Government.
10/  From PY5 onwards including all project related expenditures.



- 57 -                                     ANNEX
Table 12
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCADA CASH FLOW
(CFAF million)
PYO         PYl          PY2          PY3          PY4
Net income                                             98          782         1446         1818         1703
Depreciation                                          259          2fi          299                    __1 'IR
Operating funds generation                            357         1043         173%         2149         2091
Less : Operating cash needs
- increase receivables                       (1543)         140         115          135          125
- increase inventory                           619          945          771         881          847
- increase prepaid exp.                       (101)           -            -            -           -
Operating needs                                     (1025)        1085          886         1016          972
Plus : Operating cash sources
- increase in accounts payable                (414)          84         100          165          110
- increase in actuals                         (410)         190           70         (50)         (70)
- increase in taxes                            (35)           -            -           -            -
- CFDT                                        (200)           -            -           -            -
Operating sources                                   (1059)         274          170          115           40
Net operating cash generation                         323          232         1022         1248         1159
Less : Non-operating cash needs
- project investment cost                       70         820         1356         1623         1986
- reduction short-term debt                   2891         140             -           -          133
Non-operating needs                                  2961          960         1356         1623         2119
Plus : Non-operating sources :
increase LT.-debt (subvention)             1000          850          221          (70)         (70)
- increase in SF-debts                           -            -          20          190            -
- Govt, IDA, FED, FAC, CCCE, BADEA            1877         112           63          267          951
Non-operating sources                                2877          962          304          387          881
Net increase (decrease) in cash                       239          234           30           12          (79)



ANNEX
Table 13
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ILLUSTRATIVE GOVERNMENT CASH FLOW 1/
(CFAF Million)
Project Year                                         PYO      PYl       PY2      PY1       PY4     PY5        PY6      PY7      PY8       PY9     PY10      PYIl      PY12     PY13      PY14      PYl5
Calendar Year                                     1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   1985/86  1986/87 1987/88  1988/89 1989/90  1990/91  1991/92  1992193  1993/94  1994/95  1995/96  1996/97  1997/98
------------  PROJECT -------------
I. INFLOW
Taxes: - On Total Costs                             7      200      236        252       248     181       181     181       181       181      181       181       181      181       181       181
- On Export of Cotton Lint                 61       100      133        162      192      211      211      211      211       211       211      211       211       211       211      211
SOCADA's Net Income 2/                             -           -      -                          502       514     526       538      550       562       574       586      598       610       622
TOTAL INFLOW                                 68       300      369        314      440      894       906     918       930      942       954       966      978       990      1002     1014
II. OUTFLOW
Project Cost:  Civil Work                           2       -         61        -         -         4        4        4        4         4         4        4         4         4        4         4
Local Salaries                      2      250       340        550      703      235      235      235      235       235       235      235       235       235       235      235
Operating Costs                     2       70        85        115      170       70       70       70       70        70        70       70        70        70        70       70
Revolving Fund                                     -       120        -         -         -        -        -        -        -         -
TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 6       440      486        665       873     309       309     309       309      309       309       309       309      309       309       309
III. NET CASH FLOW BEFORE DEBT SERVICE                  62      (140)    (117)      (351)    (433)    585       597      609      621       633      645       657       669       681      693       705
IV. EXTERNAL FINANCING: 3/
Debt Service - IDA                                 -        20        20        23        25       26       28       28       28        28        28       65        64        63        62       61
- CCCE                               -          4        8         15       18       20       22       22       22        22        22       111      109       107       105      103
- BADEA                              -          1        3          5        7       10       36       35        35       34        34        33       33        32        32        31
-         5        15        22        39      48       114     109       104        99       94        89        84        79       74        69
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                            -        30        46        65        89     104       200      194      189       183      178       298       290      281       273       264
V. NET CASH FLOW                                       6      (110)    (163)      (416)    (522)    481       397      415      432       450       467       359      379       400       420      441
CUMULATIVE                                         -       (104)    (267)      (683)   (1205)   (724)    (327)       88      520       970      1437     1796      2175      2575     2995      3436
1/ In current terms throughout the broject, thereafter in constant 1986/87 terms.                                                                                                                         m
2/ Zero PYO-PY4, and 80/. thereafter.
3/ Debt Service only, FAC and FED Grants.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year                            Cumulative          Disbursements          Undisbursed        Project Year
and Semester 1/       Disbursements      Disbursements           Profile 2/            Amount             and Semester
FY 83        I              -                                                          10,100            PYO           I
II              -                  -                   -                   10,100                        II
FY 84        I           1,000 LE            1,000                 100                  9,100             PYl          I
II          1,100               2,100               1,500                  8,000                         II
FY 85        I           1,300              3,400                2,450                  6,700             PY2          I
II          1,200               4,600               3,500                   5,500                        II
FY 86        I           1,300              5,900                4,500                  4,200             PY3          I
II          1,300               7,200               6,250                   3,200                        II
FY 87        I           1,000               8,200               6,950                  2,200             PY4          I
II          1,000               9,200               7,550                   1,200                        II
FY 88        I             600               9,800               8,100                     600            PY5          I
II            600              10,400               8,450                      -                         II
1/  Fiscal Year:  July 1 - June 30
Closing Date: June 30, 1988
Project Completion:  December 31, 1987                                                                                        X
2/  Region-wide sectoral disbursement profile, adjusted to 4 years project
3/  PPF advance



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCADA Organigram
Admn,istrative Council
6 CAR tGovernnent) -2 CFDT
I
Director General
Procrement        jec Moiorn
Project Coordination                                                                                   anTvaution Unito
Unit aPCUn
I  Assistant Directo   eea 
l  l                 l                       |                     l ~~~ ~ ~ ~~                                                                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~l General
CTton i                Fiac                   esne                  Research and                                 Agrcetum enitraehia
Caiication            Dpren                  Dpatnt               Send Multiplication                             Prdcintaeos                                  Dprmn
Cimificatio.                                        ~~~~~~~~~Depent,enent                        Departmen
I   Detailed   |  |   General   |               Applied                Seed                Traininn G                                                 Maiae                             B                          ofGa
| Accounting         Acraunig                    Research           Multiplication                                                           sGa       Tri                              Bosango a              Bambari
Accounting  Section         Center                           4 Regions                        ~~~~~~~~~      ~      ~~~~~InspectedInpceBradBige
[ i1   d  Section    Centera                                                    |{<  } {X}                                             {                [Gn
24 Sectors                          P
_  Phyto            Ngoulingrn   . 
Section            Center                    *                                          osnol           | B       r 
Center                                                                   Ginn~~~~~~~Boego  Bmeri
-|  4 Research  |  |   Barmbari  |-                   8f Zones           $                                |   Ginneri
Scations           Cetr81 Zones
Exten sionists                                                                                       W
World Bank-24410



-61-                                              CHART 2
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC.
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCADA's Production Department Structure
Training                                     Director
Consultant                                  Production
Region       Region        Region        Region
Chief        Chief         Chief         Chief
Sector
Chief
Permanent                              Zone         __I nitial
Training     \Chief                                _lTraining
Extension
Agents
l
'/   I         
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WrdBn-41






I B R G  16666R
20'                                                    APRIL 1982
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
REPUBLIQUE CENTRAFRICAINE
COTTON AREA RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                              ToSrr N-LEh
PROJET Of DEVEZOPPEMEN"ARURA Z EN ZONE COTONN/ERE                                                                                                                     NDELE
-8° To«Jourdorv (5 /;>~~~~~~7i M-d,                                                         2                                              4tBAMING     I -        AGRAN 8°
HAUTE KOTTO
0                                                                                     B.t.og af          j;                                  \J/  _F                               ,_H    WL,R
OU HAM'                                                                                                / A NDOR
NANA- MAMBERA Ae                        oul,a
Z p~~~ ,r,rlyec F <> \ \~~~~~ Rivers /°ZAr>y _->
/      (>LTiRAl   AFPII. N    REPUel-lc                          -     Socodr,'s Region Lomots                                                                                   - )                               n
O.  a   ,.      , CbA     )                      \              r     i~ L,ormtes Pdprc'rs Socodca                          Th,UI  recap has een prepaedbbyttr
U    \   |                                       _._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a InernoCstonl51deres  }vVorldibaakitardssat!es/aanre' fe                                              MO5R10 A,n
V          agi.""                      '                 -                 ,tipms es D/natearno                                 baodarres sharmen en thes medlsapu fI_L --  
N YREPLIBLI/                 Z  AI    R E                                              .                                          (any teerrtary beany eodoroe,eesrrl 
_   LJPTHE COPLES                                                                                                           or ac-epe af                                                              __eb   ._adare,
~~.J REPUBLIC1                                I c8m                                                                                      20'



