RESTRICTED
Report No. P-545
FILE COvY
This report v.as prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR THE
WESTERN HIGHWAY PAVING PROJECT
May 9, 1967



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOW1ENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HOINDURAS FOR THE WESTERN
HIGHWAY PAVITG PROJECT
1.       I sublnit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $8.6 million to the Republic
of Honduras to assist in the financing of the Western Highway Paving Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       The proposed project is the fifth highwray project to be financed in
Honduras by the Bank and the Association. The first loan, made in 1955,
helped finance a highway maintenance project and the subsequent two loans
and two credits helped to finance construction of the North Road and the
W4estern Highway, the latter to gravel surface standards.  A request for a
loan to pave the Western Highway was received in April 1966.   An appraisal
mission visited Honduras in June 1966.
3.       Negotiations were held in Washington during the week of March 20,
1967.  The Government was represented by Mr. Ricardo Midence, Ambassador to
the United States, lMr. Pedro Garcia, Vice-Miinister of Communications and
Public W4orks, and technical advisers from the Ministry of Communications and
Public Works.
4.       The proposed loan, the seventh to Honduras, would increase the Bank's
total lending in Honduras to US$39.32 million (net of cancellations). IDA has
granted twro credits totalling $12.10 million (net of cancellations). The
following is the sumnary of Bank loans and IDA credits in Honduras, as of
April 30, 1967:
Amount (US$ million)
Undis-
No. Year        Borrower                   PuLrpose         Bank   IDA  bursed
135  1955  Republic of Honduras     Highway Maintenance      4.2          _
195  1958  Repubolic of Honduras    Highway Construction     5.5          -
226  1959  Empresa Nacional de
Energia Electrica       Power (Interim Pro-
ject)                1.4          -
261  1960 Empresa Nacional de
Energia Electrica      Power (Caflaveral
Project)             8.8           -
1  1961  Republic of Honduras     Western Highway
Extension                   8.6  O.A
400 1965   Republic of Honduras )                          (6.0          6.0
71  1965  Republic of Honduras )   North Road             (       3a5   3,0
463  1966 Empresa Nacional
Portuaria              Port (Puerto Cortes)     4.8    _    4.7
Total (less cancellations)                       3&.7  12.1 l14.3
of which has been repaid                       6"9
Total now outstanding                         23,8
Amount sold                                2.2
of which has been repaid               1.7     0.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                23^3 12.1
Total undisbursed                           TI57     -77  1h.3



- 2 -
5.       Four Bank loans have been completely disbursed.   On the remainder,
disbursements are generally proceeding satisfactorily. Construction work on
the North Road project has been delayed. Most recent information on costs
and savings has led the Governmentts consultants to recommend a new alignment.
Their proposal has been accepted by the Bank and work on the project is now
expected to proceed normally.
6.       The Bank has one other project in an advanced stage of consideration
in Honduras, a hydro-power project which should be ready for appraisal by the
middle of this year.  The financing required is estimated to be of the order
of US$10 million.
7.       As of April 30, 1967, IFC had one active investment in Honduras of
$332,250 (loan outstanding and equity) in a tannery (Empresa de Curtidos
Centro Americana S. A.).
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.       BORRaJER:                    Republic of Honduras
M4OUNT:                      The equivalent in various currencies
of US$8.6 million
PURPOSE:                     To assist in financing the reconstruc-
tion of 37 kms. and bituminous surfac-
ing of the entire length of the Western
Highway and feasibility studies for
further highway development.
AMPORTIZATION:               20 years including a 5-year grace
period; principal repayments semi-
annually from February 1, 1972 to
August 1, 1987
INTEREST RATE:               6 percent per annum
COPJI.IITMENT CHARGE:        3/8 of one percent per annum
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.       An appraisal report entitled "Honduras - Appraisal of the Western
Highway Paving Project" (TO-58h) on the proposed project is attached.
10.      The zone of influence of the Western Highway stretches from the El
Salvador border in the south along the Guatemala border in the west to the
Caribbean coast in the north. Although this region covers only about 16
percent of Honduras' total area, it is the most heavily populated. It
accounts for nearly 35 percent of the population; its population growth is
higher than the national average. It produces more than 40 percent of the
country's major agricultural commodities, 47 percent of its total industrial
output and 26 percent of its total forest production.



- 3 -
11.     The Western Highway is the main channel for trade between Honduras
and El Salvador. The trade between the two countries was facilitated by the
construction of the Western Highway to gravel surface standards in 196h, with
the help of an IDA Credit. This paving project should further assist in the
movement of traffic within the Western region and between Honduras and El
Salvador.
12.     The project would be executed by the Highway Department (Direccion
General de Caminos) of the Ministry of Communications and Public Works. The
design for the construction works have been prepared by engineering consul-
tants who would also supervise the construction of the project. The key
personnel of the Highway Department are well qualified and with the help of
the consultants should be able to execute the project satisfactorily.
13.     The project consists of the reconstruction of five sections of the
Western Highway between Chamelecon and La Entrada, totalling about 37 kms.
in length and the paving and bituminous surfacing of the WSestern Highway
between Chamelecon and the border with the Republic of El Salvador, totalling
about 247 kms. in length. The project also includes feasibility studies for
feeder roads in the service a-ea of the Western Highway and for the recons-
truction of the Tegucigalpa - Juticalpa Highway which now carries a substantial
volume of traffic connected with exploitation of forest resources.
14.     Total project costs are estimated at US$12.6 million equivalent.   The
amount of the loan of US$8.6 million represents the presently estimated foreign
exchange cost component of the project. The balance would be provided by the
Government. The Project is expected to be completed by mid-1971.
15.     The project has high priority in the country's road development
program. Paving the W4estern Highway will reduce transport costs and prevent
a rapid rise in the cost of transport and road maintenance that would other-
wise occur in the near future. The rate of economic return on the investment
from savings in transport costs alone ranges from 11 percent to 25 percent
for various sections according to traffic volumes and terrain, with an aver-
age rate of return for the project of lh percent. This does not take into
account some additional benefits which are not readily quantifiable such as
time savings to both passenger and freight and closer national and regional
integration.
16.     All construction work under the'project will be carried out by con-
tracts let on the basis of international competitive bidding. The road w'lork
would be divided into sections and contractors will be allowed to bid for one
or more of them thereby permitting participation by smaller local firms. Dis-
bursements for construction work wfill be made on a percentage basis, Direct
payments will be made for the foreign eAchange cost of consultants services.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS ANID AUTHORITY
17,     The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Banlc which contains the covenants normally included in highway projects and



-4 -
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section (iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
18.     The loan documents will be submitted for approval to the National
Congress of Honduras before the Effective Date.
PART V - ThE ECONOMY
19.     An economic report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Honduras" (WL{-158a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on May 20,
1966. It concluded that even with reasonable effort to increase public
savings in the next few years, Honduras would need external financing for
about 50 percent of its public investment program and that, to reach this
level, Honduras would have to obtain external financing for some 70 to 80
percent of the cost of projects eligible for external financing. It also
concluded that some portion of this assistance could appropriately be sought
on concessionary terms.
20.     The general background for this conclusion has not changed signifi-
cantly since the last report was written. Honduras, with a gross national
product per capita of approximately $220, remains the poorest of the Central
American republics, and one of the poorest in the Western Hemisphere.  The
rate of economic expansion, which in 1960-65) averaged better than 6 percent
per year, reached an impressive 10 percent in 1965 due to sharp gains in
export earnings, principally bananas. However, growth is likely to level
off at about 5 percent per year over the next few years because of the subs-
tantial completion of expansion programs for bananas and the uncertain pros-
pects for coffee, two crops that account for almost two thirds of the countryts
export earnings.
210     After several years of declining public investment expenditures and
gross foreign borrowing, the Government during 1966 became more active in
initiating new projects, largely public infrastructure. The present outlook
is for a more than doubling of past investment levels in the next few years.
Compared with a total public investment in 1962-65 of approximately $75
million, total investment expenditures could reach about $160 million over
the period 1967-1970, of which $89 million would be expected to come from
existing and new external financing. Honduras should be able to finance a
reasonable share of this enlarged program. Public revenues have increased
faster than expenditures in each of the past five years, so that public
savings after debt amortization could cover about 45 percent of the substan-
tially stepped up public investment effort over the next few years, better
than the 40 percent domestic financial contribution achieved in recent years.
22,     The total external public debt of Honduras in mid-1966 amounted to
US$61 million. Debt service payments in 1966 were US$3.5 million, equivalent
to 2.8 percent of export earnings. If the new borrowing for suitable projects
of about $85 million required to complete the financing plan for 1967-1970
were all obtained on conventional terms, debt service would be raised to $7e3
million or to 5 percent of export earnings likely in 1970 and to $12.4 million



or about 6.5 percent in 1975. Such a debt service burden would be a substan-
tial increase in debt burden and relatively high for a country like Honduras
which is poor and has uncertain export prospectse While the debt service
burden is still such as to Justify substantial new borrowing on conventional
terms, the Honduran Government may, appropriately, seek to borrow for some of
its needs on concessional terms to alleviate the strains on domestic savings
that the rapid rise in debt service would occasion.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGR$EMENT
23.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECCMMENDATION
24.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following resolu-
tion:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of a Loan to the Republic of Honduras (western
Highway Paving Project) in an amount equivalent
to US$8,600,000
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Republic of Honduras in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million six hundred thousand
United States Dollars (US$8,600,000), to mature on and prior to August 1,
1987, to bear interest at the rate of six percent (6s<) per annum, and to be
upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Western
Highway Paving Project) between the Republic of Honduras and the Bank, wlhich
has been presented to this meeting.
George D0 Woods
President
by S. R~ Cope
1,a1av 9, 190(7



