Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23518
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-407 10)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION
TO THE
HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
FORA
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
October 31, 2002
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 8, 2002)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar (JD)
JD 1 = US$ 1.41
US$ 1 = JD 0.71
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBJ           Central Bank of Jordan
CIP           Community Infrastructure Project
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
GOJ           Government of Jordan
HUDC          Housing and Urban Development Corporation
JLGC          Jordan Loan Guarantee Corporation
JMRC          Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
SMF           Secondary Mortgage Facility
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SSC           Social Security Corporation
TA            Technical Assistance
Vice President:  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Joe Saba
Sector Manager/Director:  Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Deane N. Jordan



HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                               15
10. Additional Information                                                        16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             27
Annex 8. Counterpart Completion Report                                            28






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HAsHEMITE KiNGDOM OF JORDAN
LOAN No. 4071-JO
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Housing Finance and Urban Sector
Reform Project to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. The Project was approved on July 25, 1996
and made effective on April 24, 1997.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. Elisabeth Sherwood under the supervision of Mr. Deane N. Jordan,
Lead Operations Officer, and Mr. Samir El Daher, Regional Financial Sector Advisor. The report
is based on a final supervision and ICR mission in February, 2002, material in the project files,
and information received from Project counterparts at the Ministry of Planning, the Housing and
Urban Development Corporation, and the Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company.






Project ID: P005323                                       Project Name: JO-HOUSING FINANCE/URBAN
Team Leader: Deane N. Jordan                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: October 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: JO-HOUSING FINANCE/URBAN                       L/C/TFNumber: SCL-40710
Country/Department: JORDAN                                               Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: Housing finance and real estate markets (100%)
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/29/1994                             Effective: 10/17/1996         04/24/1997
Appraisal:  12/15/1995                                MTR: 12/16/1998            01/24/2000
Approval:  07/25/1996                              Closing: 03/31/2002          03/31/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: Goverrnent of Jordan/Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company; Government of
Jordan/Housing and Urban Development Corporation
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:     Joseph Saba                               Inder Sud
Sector Manager:       Emmanuel Forestier                        Alastair McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:  Deane Jordan                              Deane Jordan
ICR Primary Author:  Elisabeth Sherwood
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project was intended to support the Government of
Jordan's (GOJ) strategy to improve the efficiency of the housing and housing finance sectors, promote
private-sector development in land and housing production, and reduce the Government's role in both
sectors. The primary focus of the Project was the liberalization and deepening of housing finance; a
secondary focus was on policy and institutional changes in low-income housing development Within the
first area, the objectives of the Project were to (i) improve the efficiency with which medium- and long-term
financial flows for mortgage lending are mobilized, (ii) facilitate and foster competition for market-based
mortgage lending, and (iii) lengthen the term structure of mortgage lending. Within the second area, the
objectives were to increase private-sector participation and competition in land and housing development
for lower-income households.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the Project did not change during the course of implementation.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project had two components corresponding to the Project's development objectives. Under the
objective of fostering medium- and long-term mortgage finance, the Project's primary component was the
establishment of a secondary mortgage facility -- the Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company (JMRC) -- that
would provide term financing to banks engaged in residential mortgage financing. The Project provided a
small amount of fimding (US$ 500,000) for technical assistance needs and equipment, but the great
majority of project funds -- US$ 19 million -- were made available for onlending through the secondary
mortgage facility. Both technical assistance funds and funding for onlending to banks were made available
to JMRC by the GOJ under a subsidiary loan agreement.
Under the objective of promoting private-sector involvement in land and housing development for
lower-income households, a secondary and significantly smaller component of the Project was to fund
technical assistance to Jordan's public-sector housing and land development agency -- the Housing and
Urban Development Corporation (HUDC) -- to support HUDC's evolution from a direct land and housing
provider to a policy-making and development-facilitating body. While HUDC and GOJ were to pursue
policy and organizational changes related to land and housing development, the Project provided US$
400,000 to fund (i) studies related to land-use planning and zoning, (ii) studies related to Jordan's housing
subsidy systems, and (iii) institutional improvements at HUDC, such as development of an appropriate cost
accounting system.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Project components did not change during the course of implementation.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
This ICR rates the Project's quality at entry as satisfactory. (Note that QAG did not assess the Project's
quality at entry.) The Project fit extremely well with GOJ's stated commitments in the sector and with
GOJs overarching reform goals, which included improved financial intermediation and reducing the role of
the public sector in commercial activities and ensuring a competitive, level playing field for the private
sector. Reforms in housing finance were specified in the CAS as part of GOYs strategy in the financial
sector and in the housing sector. The Project's design fit particularly well with GOJ policy changes in
housing finance, which included, as part of the plan for developing the Project, the prior removal of the
privileges of the Housing Bank in residential mortgage lending. The introduction of a secondary mortgage
facility was a key measure in encouraging other banks to enter into residential mortgage lending, thereby
-2 -



filling any gaps created by the Housing Bank's removal. All necessary prerequisites for implementation of
the housing finance component were completed either prior to Board presentation, including the
establishment, capitalization, and key staffing of JMRC, the setting of its charter and operating parameters,
agreement on refinance arrangements with participating banks, and agreement on onlending arrangements
between GOJ and JMRC.
Based on the housing finance component alone, the ICR would rate the Project's quality at entry as highly
satisfactory. However, it should be noted that early project design had focused largely on transformation of
HUDC from a public land and housing developer to a significantly smaller policy agency and private-sector
facilitator. The World Bank had long worked with HUDC on housing and urban development projects, and
this relationship continued as the Government began to consider ways to open up the market, to improve
the provision of housing, and to reduce the role of the public sector in land development. Significant
Project preparatory work went into feasibility studies and plans for hiving off commercially viable
departments, and land purchase, development and construction departments were to have been privatized.
Proponents of a policy-focused HUDC -- recognizing that housing finance was a bottleneck to affordable
home ownership -- were also the primary proponents of the creation of a secondary mortgage facility, and
HUDC officials became a key driving force within the Jordanian administration for the development of
competitive and market-based mortgage lending.
However, in the final design, housing sector reform tasks were a relatively minor, complementary aspect of
the Project. Despite this, several reforms intended to reduce the public sector's involvement in housing
remained as part of the Project. The continued inclusion in the Project of objectives and tasks tied to
reform measures proved problematic during Project implementation. For these reasons, the Project's
quality at entry is rated only as satisfactory despite the excellent preparation and design of the Project's
primary component of housing finance development.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
This ICR rates the achievement of Project objectives as satisfactory. This rating is based on the significant
achievements in the area of housing finance, the ongoing operations of JMRC, and the meeting or
exceeding of most of the key project indicators set for that component. These impressive achievements are
tempered somewhat by lack of progress in the area of housing sector reforn. While there were visible
increases in formal private-sector involvement in housing construction, the private sector was not
successful in taking over HUDC's role of land developer. In addition, while the affordability of urban
market housing improved (largely due to refonns in housing finance), the provision of land for new housing
for low-income households remained largely directed by HUDC, and measures to expand affordable
housing standards outside of HUDC land were not implemented. It needs to be stressed that weak progress
in the housing sector component did not have a negative effect on the housing finance component.
However, in the long term, constraints to the supply of affordable housing will affect demand for housing
finance.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Housing Finance Component (US$ 19.6 million): The Housing Finance Component is rated as highly
satisfactory. The most concrete output of the project is the secondary mortgage facility -- JMRC -- which
was the primary beneficiary and counterpart for the Project. From its establishment, JMRC has steadily
built and maintained its business of providing a source of funds for mortgage loans. JMRC lends banks
- 3-



term funds (generally between 2 and 5 years) against pledged mortgage loans originated by the borrowing
bank, reducing interest-rate and asset-liability matching risks for the banks. JMRC funds these operations
through its own capital (6.8 percent of total assets at Project end), through the World Bank loan (onlent
from the Government; 17.8 percent), and through its own bond issues (72.6 percent).
At the end of the Project, JMRC's refinance operations totalled nearly JD 48 million (US$ 67 million
equivalent) in outstanding loans to banks. This represented over 30 percent of mortgage loans in the
system eligible for refinancing (a large portion of pre-reform loans made by the Housing Bank were not
eligible for refinancing. In addition, at Project end, JMRC was not able to provide refinance facilities to
Islamic banks.). JMRC had outstanding bonds of approximately JD 52 million (US$ 73 million), whose
original yields were between 100 and 200 basis points below other corporate bond issues. (GOJ and the
CBJ no longer issue medium-term bonds.)
The combination of Government reforms (removal of privileges of the Housing Bank, removal of legal
provisions that effectively prevented banks from making long-term housing loans) and the availability of
JMRC as both a source of liquidity and a source of information regarding mortgage lending had a very
strong impact on the overall availability of mortgage loans. Although statistics are inexact, the task team
estimated that the stock of market-rate mortgages had increased from approximately JD 100 million (USD
141 million equivalent) in 1997 to nearly JD 336 million (US$ 474 million equivalent) at the end of the
project. There is significant evidence that JMRC played a truly catalytic role in encouraging lenders to
enter the mortgage market by providing a source of funds in the event of tight liquidity.
The number of lenders active in providing mortgage loans has mushroomed from effectively a single lender
in 1996 to approximately 10, six of which are very active. Banks are actively soliciting residential
mortgage business, generally competing on the basis of maturity, down payment requirements, and
loan/income requirements. Several lenders have made arrangements with housing developers to provide
financing to purchasers. In addition to the general expansion of lending, the most impressive change in the
primary mortgage market has been the extension of loan maturities offered by lenders -- maturities have
more than doubled in the last four years, and are now generally between 12 and 15 years, with some lenders
offering up to 20 years. This has greatly improved housing affordability by lowering the monthly payments
of borrowers, and has increased the availability of loans to middle and lower-middle income borrowers. As
further evidence of the impact of GOJ reforms and the Project, mortgage loans have gone from being only
2.5 percent of the banking system's net loans, to nearly seven percent.
While several of the key performance indicators that had been set to monitor achievement of the Project's
development objectives were met (total mortgage lending, loan maturities; seee Annex I for details), the
project did not meet all the indicators set. In particular, high systemic liquidity in recent years (due in part
to the unrest in the region) has limited demand for refinancing by banks, and JMRC's refinance loans are
below expectations. It should be noted, however, that this is not a reflection of any type of failure on the
part of JMRC. Because JMRC plays a counter-cyclical, balancing role in the financial sector, lower use of
their funding in a period of high liquidity is expected.
In addition, the task team had expected to see a reduction, concurrent with greater competition for lending,
in the gross operating spreads of lenders to approximately 200 basis points. Instead, operating spreads
have remained high enough to conclude that the original estimates (250 basis points) were likely too low.
However, the task team did find that, as overall interest rates fell in Jordan (related to the generally lower
interest rates in the global economy and falling pressure on the CBJ to protect the Dinar), rates on
mortgage loans fell slightly faster than rates to the rest of the economy.
-4 -



Finally, JMRC was not able to issue bonds with as lengthy maturities as intended. It was hoped that, by
Project end, JMRC would be able to issue bonds with maturities up to 10 years. However, market
soundings revealed that investors are simply not comfortable with such long maturities, or that they
required returns that greatly exceeded those of shorter-term bonds. Although not a specific objective of the
Project, it was hoped that primary lenders would use access to fixed-rate term funds to offer fixed-rate
mortgages. However, this has not yet occurred, and borrowers do not yet "demand" the product from
lenders. This also reduced demand for JMRC funding, as lenders did not seek to use term funding as a
means to reduce interest-rate and asset-liability matching risk.
Housing Sector Reform Component (US$ 400,000): The achievement of the objective of the housing
sector reform component is rated unsatisfactory. This rating is based on the fact that several fundamental
reforms that were necessary for the achievement of Project objectives -- and that had been approved by the
Cabinet and announced in the media -- were not undertaken, and implementation of technical assistance
was not carried out. Key performance indicators for the component -- related to private-sector development
of land -- were not met. In addition, loan conditionality related to restricting HUDC purchase of
Government land was not adhered to. It should be noted that Project loan funds to this component were
minimal, even at design, and component outputs therefore depended heavily on counterpart pursuit of
changes. Cancellation of the component was discussed with HUDC and the GOJ from the mid-term review
forward, with a recommendation by the Bank to cancel made following a January 2001 mission. GOJ
requested cancellation of the relevant amount in November, 2001.
The component was intended to pursue three primary tasks: (i) overall HUDC restructuring; (ii) the
establishment of an office within HUDC to facilitate private-sector development (sub-division and
infrastructure provision) of HUDC land and housing construction (this was to be part of HUDC's transition
from state provider of developed land to policy body); and (iii) pursuit of land-use, zoning, and regulatory
reform.
Regarding (i), a 1996 Cabinet decision to change HUDC's mandate from that of public sector producer of
serviced land to that of policy formulator, facilitator, and promoter of private sector development of land
and housing for low- and moderate-income households was not aggressively pursued. Related to planned
project activities, only the establishment of the Public-Private Partnership Unit (3PU, see below), which
remained under-staffed and -budgeted, and some work regarding the upgrading of management systems,
were undertaken. Project loan funds were not used for this work; trust funds were identified and used.
Regarding (ii), the original targets for the 3PU program (after taking into account delays in Project
start-up) called for private-sector development of approximately 1250 housing plots on raw land by the end
of the Project, or, altematively, 75 percent of the total number of land plots developed by both the public
and private sectors. At Project end, the 3PU program had succeeded in partnering with a developer to
service raw land in only one instance, although the development had not yet gone forward. (Once platted
and serviced, approximately 200 homes will be built on the land.) Contrary to expectations at the time of
project appraisal, private sector developers proved hesitant to take on the role of independent developer of
raw land for social housing, preferring instead to play the role of housing developer in partnership with
HUDC on land already provided with infrastructure and services by HUDC. HUDC and its partners
(purchasing HUDC-equipped land) are exempted from various registration fees and benefit from more
economical building standards. Other reasons for the lack of interest of private developers in land
development include their small size and relative financial weakness (in addition, because of tax and
registration laws, developers effectively cannot leverage their equity through borrowing), the high costs of
planning, administrative processes, and lengthy time periods required to obtain zoning and other approvals
for affordable housing projects on non-HUDC land. The costlbenefit equation associated with the
- 5-



development of raw land is therefore not attractive to most private developers.
Although the objectives of increasing private-sector land development were not achieved, the 3PU was
relatively more successfiil in partnering with developers for the construction of affordable housing. At
Project end, private developers built or were about to build approximately 1,300 units of affordable
housing on HITDC land. In addition, it needs to be noted that formal private-sector construction of housing
for middle- and upper-income housholds increased considerably during the Project period. From annual
production levels by the private sector in 1995 of 1,435 units, production increased to 2,416 units in 1998,
2,779 units in 1999, and 3,230 units in 2000. The average sale price for formal private-sector constructed
housing decreased from approximately JD 23,500 in 1998 to JD 20,000 in 2000. While still only a small
part of total housing construction (approximately 10 percent; the largest segment of housing in Jordan
remains owner-constructed), private-sector developers are increasingly organized and professional, with
several partnering with banks to offer purchase financing.
Regarding (iii), three tasks were to be pursued: the adoption of HUDC building standards (e.g., smaller plot
sizes, reduced set-back requirements, fewer off-street parking facilities) within existing municipal zoning to
enable more affordable housing development; re- and down-zoning by municipalities; and the carrying out
of a comprehensive land-use, zoning, and regulatory reform study to identify ways in which current
processes and regulations could be streamlined or improved.
Regarding down- and re-zoning, no comprehensive changes were possible. Significant effort was made
during the first half of Project implementation to carry out a comprehensive land-use, zoning, and
regulatory study (terms of reference had been agreed during Project preparation). However, no agreement
could be reached between HUDC, the Council of Ministers (responsible for regulations in urban areas), and
the Ministry of Municipalities, Rural Affairs, and Environment (MMRAE, the agency responsible for
regulatory controls in non-urban areas), to undertake the study. The impasse was never broken. HUDC
did work with muncipal authorities in two cities (al-Mafraq and As-Salt) to down-zone some areas; in the
former case, agreement was made between HUDC and the city, but the recommendation was in the end
rejected by the Council of Ministers. In as-Salt, it was not possible to reach an agreement on re-zoning.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A quantitative estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR) of the changes in the mortgage market was
calculated for this ICR using the model developed for the appraisal estimate and actual and projected
lending figures for the market as a whole and the costs of JMRC. The appraisal ERR calculation resulted
in a 22.8 percent return to the economy as a whole on the investment in the establishment of a secondary
mortgage facility. (Note that the ICR's review of the appraisal's economic analysis identified a small
discrepancy in the projection of benefits. In addition, it was decided not to include estimated benefits to the
corporate bond market. Correcting for both these items in the original appraisal analysis results in an
estimated ERR of 22.8 percent, rather an the 20.4 percent return indicated in the SAR.)
The ICR recalculation, based on actual figures and revised projections, indicates an ERR of 29.2 percent
This higher-than-expected ERR is the result of maturities in the mortgage market being extended longer
than initially expected -- at appraisal, it was expected that market loan maturities would extend from 7
years to 10 years; in fact, loan maturities have extended to 15 years, with some loans offered for as long as
20 years. This extension results in significant benefits for both the economy and individual households.
For individual households, and not taking into account reductions in interest rates, the lengthening of
maturities from 7 to 15 years has resulted in a 32 percent reduction in annual mortgage payments (given
identifical initial loan amounts). At an equivalent periodic payment level, borrowers are able to take out an
-6 -



initial loan approximately 34 percent larger at 15 years' maturity than at 7 years' maturity. If one takes
into account the lower interest rates in the Jordanian economy, of which only a part can be attributed to
JMRC, households' annual mortgage payments have been reduced 42 percent.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Project appraisal included detailed financial projections for the secondary mortgage facility that were based
on assumptions regarding (i) growth in the primary mortgage market, (ii) the percentage of new mortgages
refinanced through JMRC, (iii) prevailing interest rates on bank deposits and Central Bank of Jordan CDs,
and (iv) JMRC operating costs and the cost of issuing and servicing bonds.
While JMRC is operationally viable, in retrospect it is clear that assumptions regarding (i) through (iii)
above were overly optimistic, as were assumptions regarding banks' treatment of their interest-rate risks
and asset-liability management. The key assumptions made at appraisal were that JMRC would be
refinancing an increasing percentage of outstanding mortgage loans each year -- from 10 percent in the first
year to half in the fifth year. JMRC's outstanding refinancing loans were projected to be JD 14 million the
first year, rising to JD 107 million by year 4. Actual figures were lower -- JD 5 million in the first year,
and just under JD 49 million at the end of year 4.
Expectations regarding banks' use of JMRC facilities were premised on banks' taling into account their
all-in cost of funds -- interest rates, reserve requirements, and operational costs -- which make deposit
mobilization more expensive than JMRC funding. Had interest rates remained at their 1996-1997 levels, it
is likely that use of JMRC facilities would have been stronger, though probably not at the levels projected
at appraisal. At stable interest rates with a positive yield curve, JMRC's rates would have been
competitive. However, interest rates fell steadily from 1999 onward due to global economic conditions and
low domestic demand for loans. At end 2001, rates on deposits were between 4 and 5 percent, although
with some reports of 6 percent rates for favored clients. In addition the CBJ reduced reserve requirements
on deposits by six percentage points, further increasing banks' liquidity and reducing their all-in cost of
funds. But it was likely falling interest rates -- and the expectation that interest rates could fall further still
-- that reduced banks' incentive to lock in to fixed medium-term commitments with JMRC. Continuing
high liquidity also reduced banks' incentive to use JMRC as a means of reducing asset-liability mismatches.
For the above reasons, JMRC's level of business and operational returns were below expectations made at
appraisal. This risk was strongly recognized at appraisal and in the SAR: "(E)stimates for the SMF are
based on a number of assumptions with ranges of reasonable error that impose on the SMF a significant
risk that it could be left with a customer base too small for it to be commercially viable." This risk was to
some degree realized -- while JMRC was able to maintain an adequate spread between its cost of funds and
interest rates, net operating revenues were significantly lower than expected due to lower volumes, while
JMRC's fixed administrative costs could not be reduced. Nevertheless, JMRC's after-tax revenues did
generate returns on equity of between 3 and 6 percent for the last three years.
The following tables summarize projected and actual operations and financial results for the first four years
of JMRC operations:
Assumptions:
Projected              Actual
Rate on 3-year fixed-rate JMRC bonds                    9.75%                 5.2%
Spread between JMRC bonds and refinance loan rates  135 basis points      130 basis points
-7-



Maximum acceptable cost to banks of alternative
loanable funds
Assuming banks pay 9% on deposits, reserve         11.3%
requirement is 14%, and banks invest 26% of deposits in
CBJ CDs at 8.5%
Assuming banks pay 4% on deposits, reserve                              4.3%
requirement is 8%, and banks invest 26% of deposits in
CBJ CDs at 4.5%
Assuming banks pay 5% on deposits, reserve                              5.8%
requirement is 8%, and banks invest 26% of deposits in
CBJCDs at 4.5%
Projections (JD):
Year I          Year 2        Year 3      Year 4
JMRC refinance loans              14,000,000     22,000,000    31,000,000  41,000,000
Outstanding refinance loans       14,000,000     36,000,000    66,000,000  107,000,000
Oustanding bonds                  14,000,000     36,000,000    66,000,000  107,000,000
Income from refinance loans        760,000        2,706,000     5,551,000   9,434,000
from investments             448,000        456,000       469,000     489,000
Bond interest expense              686,000        2,444,000     5,014,000   8,521,000
Overhead expense                   256,000        273,000       317,000      337,000
Net income after taxes             173,000         289,000       448,000     692,000
Return on equity                    3.45% °        5.78%         8.96%       13.84%
Actual (JD):
1998            1999         2000         2001
JMRC refinance loans              16,000,000      8,000,000     4,500,000   32,000,000
Outstanding refinance loans       5,000,000      21,600,000    23,700,000   48,700,000
Oustanding bonds                  10,000,000     14,800,000    19,250,000   42,700,000
Income from refinance loans        73,000         1,576,000     2,121,000   2,662,000
from investments             605,000        672,000       724,000      998,000
Bond interest expense              165,000        1,085,000     1,491,000   1,741,000
Other interest expense             83,000         539,000        713,000     825,000
Overhead expense                   313,000        409,000       458,000      372,000
Net income after taxes             89,000         213,000        178,000     353,000
Retum on equity                     1.64%          3.90%         3.22%        6.15%
4.5 Institutional development impact:
This ICR rates the institutional development of the Project as substantial. The Project had a strong and
beneficial impact on the establishment and institutional development of JMRC. Without the support of the
World Bank, in particular, of implicit techical assistance provided by supervision missions, JMRC may not
have overcome initial obstacles to operations.
In addition, the Project had an indirect but significant impact on the institutional development of bank-s that
-8-



developed their mortgage finance business. JMRC worked with banks and their staff to set refinance -- and
therefore lending -- standards, and provided informal and formal technical assistance and training in
mortgage lending and asset-liability management. JMRC reports that bank staff at all levels show a much
greater understanding of housing finance, which interviews with bank management confirmed.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
With respect to the housing finance component, JMRC's operational results are to a very large degree
dependent on factors in the economy and in the financial sector. Demand for JMRC financing from banks
depends not only on the stock of primary mortgage lending, but also the degree to which lenders feel at risk
due to liquidity constraints, interest rate risks, and asset-liability matching risks. High interest rates on
mortgage loans -- 15 and 16 percent -- during project preparation had led to the expectation that lenders
would compete for borrowers by offering fixed interest rates (probably for limited periods of time, say, four
to five years) to borrowers wary of the risks of rising rates. Offering fixed-rate mortgages would expose
banks to mismatch risks, which refinancing with JMRC would help to alleviate. It was also anticipated
that the availability of term finance from JMRC would encourage banks to offer fixed-rate loans.
However, excess liquidity that has emerged in the banking system in recent years, low economic growth,
and a highly stable and inexpensive deposit base has resulted in banks' not being constrained in offering
relatively long-term loans despite nominally short-term deposits. Mortgage loans have continued to be
adjustable rate loans, however, they are not tied to benchmarks, resulting in banks being slow to reduce
rates on existing loans as general rates in the system have declined. The excess liquidity, in particular, has
resulted in banks' being able to fund loans from deposits, rather than from JMRC's funds. However, the
availability of JMRC funds has provided banks a level of comfort regarding any future liquidity tightening.
On the capital market side, it was anticipated that there would be high demand for medium- and long-term
JMRC bonds, given the dearth of term investments available in Jordan. The task team found that the
demand for long-term investment instruments -- which would enable the development of fixed-rate loans
with lower interest rate risk to borrowers -- is severely hindered by the predominance of relatively well
remunerated short-term deposits. While JMRC now effectively sets a benchmark for term bond issues,
overall development of the corporate bond market has been limited. The size of the bond market, as
measured in terms of bond issues having maturities of more than one year, grew from JD 131 million in
1998 to JD 363.5 million in 2001. However, this growth was due largely to government bond issues. The
volume of private sector issues has varied widely, and has not shown an increasing trend: JD 83 million
(1998, JD 53 million (1999), JD 99 million (2000), JD 63.5 million (2001). Moreover, average bond
maturities have shortened rather than lengthened; excluding issues by the Government, which has only
issued bonds with 2 and 3 year terms since 1998, average maturities have declined from about 5 years in
1998 and 1999, to 4.7 years in 2000, and then to 3.1 years in 2001. Thus, the modest appetite in the
market for even medium-term bond issues adds to the difficulty of promoting the emergence of a fixed-rate
securities market.
One important reason for this modest market appetite for medium- and longer-term bond issues seems to be
competition from high-yielding, quasi-liquid deposits offered by banks. Typical interest rates paid on
savings accounts are between 3 and 4 percent, with large time deposits paid around 5 percent (up to six
percent quoted by some banks for their best customers). Most of these (about 90 percent) have terms of
one month or less.
These returns on savings accounts and time deposits appear high relative to the current rate of inflation (1
-9-



percent or less in the last several years), the stability of the JD, and the low rates offered on dollar deposits.
They are also high compared to the yields on government bonds. The Government has refrained from
issuing bonds with maturities longer than 2 to 3 years to avoid paying a premium on longer maturities. In
addition, the majority of institutional, long-term funds are assets of the Social Security Corporation (SSC),
which maintains approximately 50 percent of its assets in bank deposits. Slow development of life
insurance and private pension funds reduce overall demand for term investments.
Perhaps the most pervasive problem, yet the most difficult to overcome, is the lending and funding
practices of Jordanian banks. Generally, the Jordanian banking sector appears to be extremely
conservative in extending loans to its customers. Banks are excessively liquid: between 30 percent and 50
percent of the assets of the major institutions are composed of cash, deposits with the Central Bank, and
interbank lending. The ratio of loans to deposits -- on the order of 50 percent on average -- remains very
low, even after taking into account the presence of dollar-denominated deposits.
While in more developed financial markets banks pursue asset-liability management policies that aim to
match maturities and costs of assets and sources of funds, banks in Jordan appear to pursue a policy of
maintaining well-above-necessary short-term deposits to fund long-term assets. In addition, because
interest rates on long-term loans in Jordan are technically variable (loan contracts specify that interest rates
can be adjusted, however, in practice, they rarely are), banks have no incentive to find fixed-rate sources of
funds that would match fixed-rate loans. This comfortable method of dealing with interest rate risk -- which
is particularly successful for banks in an atmosphere of falling rates -- is not only detrimental to individual
borrowers, but also discourages lenders from using longer term sources of funding such as that provided by
JMRC.
5.2 Factors generally sub]ect to government control:
With respect to the housing finance component and JMRC operations, the GOJ took reasonably prompt
corrective action regarding issues within the sphere of their control (e.g., changes to the law prohibiting
total interest charges exceeding the principal of the loan ["the Ottoman Law"]; regulations regarding
treatment of JMRC bonds with respect to capital adequacy calculations). One main issue, however,
requiring joint GOJ, HUDC, and JMRC coordination, has never been solved -- changes to mortgage
registration rules. Throughout the Project, JMRC staff had to manually assign mortgages that had been
pledged as collateral for refinance loans to the benefit of JMRC, rather than to the benefit of the originating
bank. It would be significantly more efficient and less costly to allow automatic assignment of the
mortgages when they are pledged by the banks, but solutions to this problem are quite complex and have
not been implemented. One solution that was envisaged would have required the creation of a new trust
law, and significant time was spent pursuing this solution. However, Government did not move forward
due to concerns regarding potential implications for other areas of the economy and for political reasons.
With respect to the housing sector reform component, despite a Council of Ministers decree regarding the
restructuring of HUDC, further Government decisions that were necessary to effect restructuring were not
taken. Equally important Government did not pursue key changes regarding land-use and planning,
including ensuring agreement of key agencies regarding a comprehensive study of rules, practices and
procedures.
Finally, it needs to be noted that the World Bank, as an institution, sent conflicting messages regarding
HUDC's restructuring. Shortly after this Project was agreed on, the Bank began preparation and
subsequent implementation of the Community Infrastructure Project (CIP), to which HUDC was assigned
as the primary Project entity responsible for infrastructure upgrading in CIP-targetted areas. HUDC
effectively acts as a contractor for the program, receiving a fee in exchange for management of the CIP. It
-10-



should be noted that the CIP was prepared under exceptional circumstances and required expedited
implementation, which would likely have been delayed if HUDC had not been the implementing agency.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
With respect to the housing finance component and JMRC operations, there were no major problems that
were not addressed by JMRC. In contrast, the overall positive operational results of JMRC are very much
the product of consistent professionalism on the part of staff there. While more proactive or more forceful
management attention to some business issues may have been useful, within the business and banking
environment of Jordan, JMRC's steady methods seem appropriate.
With respect to the housing sector reform component, many of the tasks under the responsibility of HUDC
as the implementing agency were heavily dependent on the willingness of other GOJ bodies, such as the
Municipality of Amman and MMRAE, to carry out tasks and to coordinate changes to local zoning and
land-use rules. The lack of success of the component is jointly shared among relevant agencies. At the
same time, few resources were allocated to pursue these tasks, and the office responsible for coordination
was overburdened with these and other activities. HUDC did not adequately staff relevant offices. The
argument has been made that it was not possible to fully staff and supply the relevant offices, given
HUDC's overall budget situation and the generally recognized need for cost recovery (HUDC's
infrastructure and construction units do recover their costs through the sale of developed land). However,
the premise of the component was that HUDC would significantly scale back its land activities and focus
on its policy activities, which would have required HUDC's no longer being a self-sustaining entity, or in its
finding other ways to generate revenue.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Funding for technical assistance needs for both components had been allocated in the Project but were not
used. Presumably this was due to the general unwillingness of the GOJ to borrow IBRD funds for
technical assistance. Limited grant funding was identified and used to fund scaled-down technical
assistance, primarily to JMRC. While other problems related to the housing sector reform component may
have made the TA funding to HUDC a moot point, JMRC would likely have benefitted from more
consistent and integrated technical assistance and training of staff. The issue of borrower unwillingness to
use loan proceeds for technical assistance is a serious one that should be addressed at the country (not
project) level.
Loan proceeds allocated to fund JMRC's refinancing loans were used as planned. The mechanism used to
price funds (which were onlent from the GOJ) were market-based (based on the cost of JMRC's own bond
issues) and funds were disbursed in a way that (i) tied them strictly to JMRC's refinance business and (ii)
ensured that JMRC's operations became increasingly less dependent of Bank funding as business expanded.
Cancellations of US$950,000 and US$49,976.87, representing the amount of the loan allocated to technical
assistance, were made effective September 27, 2001 and November 16, 2001, respectively.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of Project results is considered Highly Likely. This rating is based on JMRC's corporate
presence and ongoing business operations, which have been and continue to be viewed as independent from
the World Bank
JMRC's business has grown during each year of its operations -- from 65 percent growth in total assets



during its second year, to lower growth of 33 percent during its third year, to nearly doubling during its
fourth year. JMRC has been profitable, despite paying market rates on all its funding. Retums on assets
and on equity have been respectable, although not stellar -- return on assets ranged between 0.5 and I
percent each year of JMRC's operations; return on equity has ranged from 3.2 to 6.1 percent over the last
three years.
Regarding the minor institutional changes within HUDC, the task team expects that the Public-Private
Partnership Unit, even in its small state, will be maintained by HUDC to facilitate private-sector
involvement in HUDC land and housing projects where it is seen as feasible. If development companies'
capacities expand significantly, there could be much greater scope for their collaboration with HUDC.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
No transition arrangements to regular operations are necessary, as JMRC has been operating as an
independent company throughout Project implementation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during Project preparation is rated as satisfactory. Rated purely on its own merits --
i.e., on the quality of Project preparation materials and analyses and the degree of Government commnitment
evidenced at the outset - Bank performance would be rated highly satisfactory. However, subsequent
problems with the housing sector reform component indicate that, for a variety of reasons, Govenmuent's
effective ability to implement reforms may not have been fully taken into account in the final project design.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision is rated as satisfactory, which is based on the extremely positive
performance with respect to the housing finance component and the less susccessful performance with
respect to the housing reform component. The majority of the supervision record is very positive, based on
the Bank team's consistent and continuing communications regarding the housing finance component, the
level of technical assistance provided to counterparts, and dialogue with the Government on complementary
issues.
The Bank team supervising the housing finance component included very highly regarded specialists in
housing finance and secondary mortgage market development who were able to form solid and consistent
communications with counterparts. There was a high degree of trust evident in communications between
the parties that has continued beyond Project closing.
The Bank was able to use Project supervision to advise GOJ on the design of a subsidy program for
housing purchase for low-income households. This assistance had not been planned as part of the Project
-- reviews of existing programs and dialogue on possible forms of subsidy delivery for housing had been
included in grant funding -- but windfall privatization revenues had been unexpectedly used to create a
housing fund. The World Bank was able to provide direct technical assistance and to coordinate with
grant-funded consultants in the design of the subsidy program. Despite pressures to use the fund to
guarantee fixed-rate, subsidized rates to low-income borrowers, the World Bank team largely succeeded in
convincing the authorities to keep the fund non-distortionary (providing a portion of interest payments, but
keeping the rate paid by borrowers tied to market costs of funds), sustainable (by limiting the number of
awards each year), and targeted (by prioritizing recipients by income and need). The Bank was not
successful, however, in convincing authorities that one-time down-payment assistance, rather than ongoing
mortgage repayment assistance, was the first-best option for subsidy design.
- 12 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory, based on the above assessments.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance during project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The Government was very
serious and diligent in studying and finding solutions to the many policy and technical issues associated
with the proposed project. In January 1994, the Government established a high-level steering committee
under the chairmanship of the Minister of Public Works and Housing and three working groups led by
HUDC. The working groups managed five consultant studies related to the reform and restructuring of
HUDC and led extensive debates within the Government and with the Bank on the studies' findings and
recommendations. Subsequently, in September 1995, the Director General of HUDC was appointed as
Project Director. In addition, the Government appointed a development team to study the feasibility of a
secondary mortgage facility. The team comprised broad representation from the central bank, concerned
government ministries and agencies, and the Housing Bank. A detailed report was produced by the team in
November 1995, just prior to project appraisal in December 1995.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory, especially due to its willingness to take
actions for the housing finance component that entailed considerable political and performance risks in the
process of restructuring the sector. By proceeding with the removal of the special privileges of the Housing
Bank, it created a major, and long-lasting market vacuum in housing finance for which it put full faith in
the eventual success of the secondary mortgage facility and the emergence of new commercial-bank
mortgage business activity to fill. The Government also took many financial sector policy actions during
project appraisal and implementation to establish JMRC and ensure that it could become an operational
reality, on a market basis, including the decision to allow JMRC to become predominantly private-sector
owned. Consistent, close attention was given to JMRC development by senior government and CBJ
officials during project implementation.
Government performance in implementing the real sector component was unsatisfactory. Although the
Cabinet took a number of critically important housing sector policy decisions prior to Board presentation,
some of them were not implemented (e.g., the allocation of HUDC standards to private developers) and
some were not pursued at local levels (e.g., those relating to land zoning and plot sizes). The Government
also allowed HUDC to continue the procurement of land for development, contrary to one of the criteria
agreed under the project to shift greater responsibility for land development from the public sector to the
private sector. This latter action may have been due in part to a belief that private sector developers, which
had grown but which are mainly focused on housing construction rather than land development, were not
developing fast enough or sufficiently enough to permit the Government to restrict HUDC's land
development activities. On the other hand, HUDC also did not give sufficient prominence in its
organization for an aggressive pursuit of its public-private partnership program, intended to attract and
assist private developers to enter the business of land development as well as housing construction, in order
to allow the private sector to gradually take over this activity from the public sector.
Government representatives, especially from the Ministry of Planning, consistently assisted the Bank
during supervision missions, often participating closely with the task team. The Government also complied
for the most part with all reporting and auditing requirements.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
- 13 -



JMRC's performance as the implementing agency for the housing finance component is rated as
satisfactory. This rating is based on JMRC's strong performance described above in developing, from
scratch, the secondary mortgage market, and in promoting the emergence of a strong, commercial bank
primary mortgage market The rating is also based on JMRC's highly competent handling of Bank
procurement and other implementation policies, its open communications and collaboration with the Bank,
and its regular progress and financial reporting.
HUDC's implementation performance was unsatisfactory, although it needs to be noted that several
individuals involved with the Project worked hard to try to address Project objectives. As an institution,
however, HUDC did not actively implement the component This was not due to lack of capacity or
capability - HUDC's implementation of the housing subsidy program mentioned above, for which they
allocated sufficient staff and resources, provides a counterexample. Unlike the Project tasks, though, the
housing subsidy program did not threaten HUDC's core business or ongoing operations.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory, based on the above assessments.
8. Lessons Learned
The Projecfs successes in housing finance are owed to a very large extent to (i) good financial and judicial
fundamentals and (ii) extreme care taken in the design of JMRC and its lending and borrowing mechanisms
to avoid both uncertainties in financial contracts and distortions in the sector.
Although Jordan's financial sector is not particularly deep, skills are relatively high and practices are
conservative. A banking crisis a decade previous had resulted in strengthened supervision and better credit
assessment, provisioning, and collateral. Equally important, although the Housing Bank had formerly been
a state-owned bank with a near monopoly in housing lending (as well as having been the delivery
mechanism for housing subsidies), it had not fallen victim to many of the practices common among other
state-owned financial institutions in the region -- it had a good record of ensuring loan repayments,
including using repossession as a tool to enforce good borrower behavior. Finally, the judicial system,
while slow, did (and continue to) have a reputation for contract enforcement. Repossession of a borrower's
home could take several years (and resale by the repossessing bank could take additional time and face
certain constraint), but it was an effective threat. All these factors led to an atmosphere where banks had a
margin of comfort in entering the primary mortgage market. Without this, the availability of term sources
of finance from JMRC would not have made a difference.
Extreme care had been taken in establishing the fundamentals of JMRC's operations prior to Project
effectiveness - loan, project, and other agreements laid out very clear guidelines for the characteristics of
mortgage loans eligible for refinancing, which in tum set a standard for the industry as a whole. The legal
basis for loans pledged as collateral to JMRC had been researched, and framework agreements with
participating banks made clear. The results were positive -- there is not a single instance of a conflict
arising between JMRC and a bank regarding mortgage-loan collateral. The only main point of contention
between JMRC and banks has been the pricing of JMRC's loans, with banks invariably wanting loans at
rates too low to support JMRC's costs of funding and operations. That problem has not been the effect of
too high operating costs, but of a distortion in the financial sector that had not been clear during project
preparation -- a system that is both highly liquid and generates expectations of high returns.
This last point leads to an additional key lesson regarding the housing finance component - deepening
financial markets, including creating secondary markets for loans and increasing institutional investmnent
- 14 -



opportunities, depends not only on creating frameworks for new financing mechanisms, but most
importantly on the underlying market for primary lending and general economic activity. This project and
JMRC's results show that excess liquidity will slow the development of secondary and capital markets, and
that as long as market participants cannot clearly assess the benefits of new sources of funds, new
mechanisms will be underutilized.
Finally, experience during the Project indicated that complementary aspects of the housing finance system
need to receive attention. In Jordan, one weak arm of housing finance is the availability of an appropriate
mortgage insurance program. An existing program available from the Jordan Loan Guarantee Corporation
(JLGC) provides neither appropriate coverage nor pricing, and therefore is not widely used by banks.
While it has not yet had a serious impact, the lack of an attractive insurance program will slow both the
availability of mortgages to lower-income households and the development of new bond instruments backed
by mortgage receivables.
The Project had much less success in implementing housing sector policy reforms and in transferring the
main responsibility for land development for low income housing from a public sector institution - HUDC
- to private sector developers. Despite their initial support by the central government at the Cabinet level,
the implementation of housing sector reforms (e.g., re-zoning, down-zoning, etc.) was dependent
particularly upon their acceptance and adoption by local authorities, most of whom were not readily willing
to accommodate more affordable standards for land development and housing within their communities.
Leaving the responsibility for low-income land development in the hands of another government agency
(HUDC) was perhaps perceived by them as being more manageable and less risky.
Regarding institutional restructuring of HUDC, for a variety of reasons Project objectives and expectations
were too optimistic. A key lesson is that internal opposition to changing the status quo - an important risk
factor cited in the SAR - can be strong, and therefore improved incentives for such change, and much
stronger local participation in designing such change, needs to be built into project design. In addition, the
strategy of reforning a public-sector institution from within, even if the change process is carried out over
a lengthy period, can be fraught with growing opposition as existing public sector jobs and roles become
increasingly threatened. To oversee such reform, it is important in project design to ensure that the
authority for and commitment to take such key decisions lies at a high policy-making level outside the
institution.
Another important lesson relates to the capacity of the private sector and its incentives to quickly fill a role
vacated by the public sector, in this case land development for low-income housing. Project preparation
may have benefited from more in-depth analysis of the prospective ability and willingness of the private
markets to respond to this need in a timely manner.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The GOJ, in conjunction with HUDC and JMRC, provided comments on this ICR in a letter dated October
30, 2002. The GOJ commended the Bank for presenting a well prepared and fair analysis of the project
and its achievements. The GOJ conveyed its agreement wiith the conclusions of the ICR, in particular, the
highly successful outcome of the Housing Finance component and the strong working relationship between
the World Bank, JMRC, and the GOJ with respect to that component and other aspects of housing finance,
i.e., the design of the Housing Fund assistance program. The GOJ expressed its hopes that the Bank and
Jordan can continue to work together in the area of housing finance.
- 15 -



The GOJ agreed with the less satisfactory outcome of the Housing Sector Reform component, but agreed
that the outcome there should not affect the overall assessment of the Project. However, it was stressed
that the GOJ remains committed to the goal of greater private sector involvement in the housing sector, and
that HUJDC's role as facilitator would be strengthened. In addition, the GOJ stated its continued interest in
legislative and regulatory reform that would improve urban land use and regulation.
JMRC provided detailed comments regarding the development of its liquidity facility for housing loans and
the development of a secondary mortgage market which were in agreement with the assessment of the ICR.
JMRC stressed its ongoing operations despite the high liquidity of the banking system and its growing body
of experience with the housing finance and bond markets in Jordan, which they believe will continue to
promote the deepening of the housing finance system. JMRC also commented on the highly supportive and
collaborative actions of the CBJ with respect to reforms in housing finance, which together with JMRC's
operations have expanded housing finance and opened it to lower income segments than previously had
access. JMRC also reiterated the strong working relationship with the World Bank team, which they felt
significantly strengthened their capacity and operations.
(b). Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
-16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
j1lndlcator1MatrIx-        |'       Projocted InlastPSR   i               Actual/Latest Estimato
Cumulative amount of market-based      JD 220 million                        JD 330 million
mortgage loans
Average length of market-based mortgages  10 years                           12 years
Gross operating spreads of mortgage lenders 200 basis points                 350 basis polnts
Private-sector developed land as a    75 percent                             0 percent
percentage of total land developed by private
sector and HUDC; and/or
Total number of plots of land developed by  1,250 plots                      0 plots
the private sector
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix    Y .             Projocted In last PSR                 ActualLatest Estimate
Profitability and reasonable retum on equity                                 6 percent ROE
achieved by JMRC.
Amount of JMRC portfolio of            JD 100 million                        JD 48.7 million
mortgage-refinance loans
Outstanding mortgage refinance loans as a  40 percent                        15 percent
percentage of outstanding mortgage loans
End of project
- 17 -






Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
d' ,  '  >  1  ......  si Hs ' ' t ^ .....'Appraisal," .'ActuallLatest  ,Percentage of`',
EstiratEststimate           Appraisal
Project Cost By Component,            ' US$ million;,, `,$ mrnillion'F
Secondary Mortgage Facility
Refinancing Program                              19.00          19.00             1
SMF Equipment                                     0.10           0.00             0
Technical Assistance                              0.30           0.00             0
Institutional and Regulatory Reforms
Technical Assistance to HUDC                      0.30           0.00             0
Total Baseline Cost                                19.70          19.00
Physical Contingencies                             0.00           0.00             0
Price Contingencies                                0.10           0.00             0
Total Project Costs            19.80          19.00
Total Financing Required             19.80          19.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
.,         '            ' ~~~~~Procurement Method                      ,
Expenditure Category     ICB        P  Cu         2thor         N.B.F.     Total Cost
NCB      ~Other
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.15         0.00         0.00         0.15
(0.00)       (0.15)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.15)
3. Services                  0.00         0.75         0.00         0.00         0.75
(0.00)       (0.75)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.75)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.90         0.00         0.00        0.90
(0.00)       (0.90)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.90)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category     iCB           NCB         Othe         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
-18 -



3. Services                     0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal.
- Component        1   Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
. ~   ;.   Bank      Govt.     CoF.,     Bank      Gova       CoF.    Bank   Govt   CoF.
Secondary Mortgage
Component
Refnancing Program      19.00              122.00     19.00               66.85    100.0          54.8
SMF Equipment           0.10                          0.00                          0.0
Technical Assistance    0.30                          0.00                          0.0
Institotlonal and
Reglatory Reforms
Technical Assistance    0.30                          0.00                          0.0
to HUDC
-19-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
A quantitative estimate of the economic rate of return (ERR) of the changes in the mortgage market was
calculated for this ICR using the model developed for the appraisal estimate and actual and projected
lending figures for the market as a whole and the costs of JMRC. The appraisal ERR calculation resulted
in a 22.8 percent return to the economy as a whole on the investment in the establishment of a secondary
mortgage facility. (Note that the ICR's review of the appraisal's economic analysis identified a small
discrepancy in the projection of benefits. In addition, it was decided not to include estimated benefits to the
corporate bond market. Correcting for both these items in the original appraisal analysis results in an
estimated ERR of 22.8 percent, rather than the 20.4 percent return indicated in the SAR.)
The ICR recalculation, based on actual figures and revised projections, indicates an ERR of 29.2 percent.
This higher-than-expected ERR is the result of maturities in the mortgage market being extended longer
than initially expected -- at appraisal, it was expected that market loan maturities would extend from 7
years to 10 years; in fact, loan maturities have extended to 15 years, with some loans offered for as long as
20 years. This extension results in significant benefits for both the economy and individual households.
For individual households, and not taking into account reductions in interest rates, the lengthening of
maturities from 7 to 15 years has resulted in a 32 percent reduction in annual mortgage payments (given
identifical initial loan amounts). At an equivalent periodic payment level, borrowers are able to take out an
initial loan approximately 34 percent larger at 15 years' maturity than at 7 years' maturity. If one takes
into account the lower interest rates in the Jordanian economy, of which only a part can be attributed to
JMRC, households' annual mortgage payments have been reduced 42 percent.
The following summarizes the inputs into the economic analysis:
*   Assumptions regarding initial (year 1) market rate and subsidized loans remained the same as those at
appraisal: That the stock of market-rate loans was JD 50 million, with a maximum maturity of 7
years, and that the stock of subsidized loans was also JD 50 million, with a maximum maturity of 15
years.
*   The new analysis replaced the projections for new loans with the task team's estimates for actual new
loans for years 1 through 5, as follows:
*   JD 0 new loans in year 1 (1997)
*   JD 41 million new loans in year 2 (1998)
*   JD 58 million new loans in year 3 (1999)
*   JD 78 million new loans in year 4 (2000)
*   JD 106 million new loans in year 5 (2001)
*   We assumed a four percent annual growth rate in new loans in years 6 and beyond. This is judged to
be a very conservative estimate when compared to the actual growth that has taken place between 1997
and 2001.
*   Based on reported offered maturities during Project supervision, the following assumptions were made
regarding the initial maturities of new loans:
*   no change in average maturities in years 1 and 2;
*   an increase to a 10-year maturity in year 3;
*   an increase to a 12-year maturity in year 4
*   an increase to a 15-year maturity in year 5 and beyond.
*   While the appraisal estimate assumed a four percent inflation rate, the current estimate used actual and
estimated inflation rates for 1997 through 2001, then the projected rates of inflation used in the Jordan
-20-



Country Assistance Strategy, which is currently under preparation. The actual and estimated inflation
rates for 1997 through 2001 are:
*   1.1 percent in year 1 (1997)
*   5.6 percent in year 2 (1998)
* - 0.9 percent in year 3 (1999)
* - 0.1 percent in year 4 (2000) (estimate)
* 0.3 percent in year 5 (2001) (estimate)
*   The appraisal estimate assumed that the value to banks of the declines in liquidity risks was 20 basis
points (applied to outstanding loan principal) in year 1, 30 basis points in year 2,40 basis points in
year 3, and 50 basis points in years 4 and beyond. The current estimate employs the same
assumptions. As in the appraisal estimate, this benefit is assumed to apply to the existing stock of
loans that are eligible for refinance, even if they are not actually refinanced. Thus, lenders enjoy a
windfall benefit from the reduction in risk on their existing portfolio.
*   The appraisal estimate assumed that the value to consumers of longer maturities was equivalent to 20
basis points (applied to outstanding loan principal) in year 2, 30 basis points in year 3, 40 basis points
in year 4, and 50 basis points in years 5 and beyond. The current estimate employs the same
assumptions.
* The appraisal estimate assumed that improved information in the bond market would reduce the cost of
issuing long-term corporate debt by 10 basis points. The current estimate has not included estimates
for reduced costs in the corporate bond market, because, despite a larger total bond market, most bonds
remain Government issued.
*   Estimates for the operating costs of the SMF have been replaced by the actual operating costs of
JMRC for years 1 through 5. Beyond year 5, operating costs are estimated to increase at the projected
rate of inflation.
*   The appraisal estimate assumed that approximately 50 percent of eligible mortgages would be
refinanced at JMRC; the current estimate assumes that approximately 25 percent of eligible mortgages
would be refinanced. This revision changes slightly the costs attributed to JMRC (i.e., JMRC's margin
on its refinance loans), but as the benefits of reduced liquidity risks accrue to the economy regardless of
whether loans are refinanced or not, this does not result in a significant change in estimated benefits.
Under the assumptions outlined above, the rate of return to the mortgage market of the investment and
ongoing costs of JMRC are calculated to be 29.2 percent, or approximately 28 percent higher than the rate
of return calculated at appraisal. A summary of the calculation is provided in the tables below.
-21 -



Actual and Projected Volumes of Lending Activity (JD Million)
Year I  Year 2  Year 3 Year4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7   Year 8 Year9 Year 10
Existing Market Loans             50      45       39     32     25     15      0      0      0       0
Existing Subsidized Loans(PV)     50      48       45     41     36     32     26     20      15     10
NewLoansYear I                      0       0       0      0      0      0      0      0       0      0
New Loans Year 2                           41      38     35     31     27     23      9       5      0
New Loans Year 3                                   58     54     50     46     42     37      31      24
New Loans Year 4                                          78     74     70     66     61      56     50
New Loans Year 5                                                106    103     99     95      90     86
New Loans Year 6                                                       110    107    103      99     94
New Loans Year 7                                                              115    111     107     95
New Loans Year 8                                                                     119     116    111
New Loans Year 9                                                                             124    120
New Loans Year 10                                                                                   129
End-Year Balance                  100     134     179    239    322    403    477    555    642     720
Net Real Benefits to Banks and Borrowers (JD Million)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7  Year 8 Year 9 Year 10
Cumulative Deflator             1.000   1.056   1.047  1:045  1.049  1.081  1.136   1.156  1.177   1.198
Real ValueofInitialLoansOutstg.   100      88      80     70     58     43     23      17     13      8
Decline in Liquidity Risk Prem.  0.20    0.30    0.40   0.50   0.50   0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50    0.50
Decline Net of Increase in Term           0.3     0.4    0.5    0.5    0.5    0.5     0.5    0.5     0.5
Value of Longer Terms                    0.20    0.30   0.40   0.50   0.50   0.50    0.50   0.50    0.50
Real Value of Benefits for:
Pre-Existing Loans              0.200   0.264   0.321  0.349  0.291  0.217  0.114   0.086  0.064   0.042
New Loans Year 1                0.000   0.000   0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000  0.000   0.000
NewLoansYear2                           0.195   0.218  0.232  0.207  0.174  0.140   0.055  0.030   0.000
New Loans Year 3                                0.385  0.425  0.382  0.340  0.296   0.255  0.211   0.163
New Loans Year 4                                       0.667  0.636  0.584  0.522   0.477  0.427   0.378
New Loans Year5                                                1.011  0.951  0.868  0.820  0.765   0.717
New Loans Year 6                                                     1.020  0.941   0.887  0.838   0.782
New Loans Year 7                                                            1.009   0.962  0.906   0.794
New Loans Year 8                                                                    1.031  0.983   0.925
New Loans Year 9                                                                           1.053   1.004
New Loans Year 10                                                                                  1.076
Total for Mortgages             0.200   0.460   0.923  1.674  2.526  3.286  3.891   4.573  5.277   5.881
Real Value of Total Benefits    0.200   0.460   0.923   1.674  2.526  3.286  3.891  4.573  5.277   5.881
JMRC Costs                      0.240   0.310   0.453  0.508  0.492  0.661  0.696   0.741  0.790   0.832
NetRealBenefitsfromJ   -5.000  -0.040   0.150   0.471   1.166  2.034  2.625  3.195  3.831  4.486   5.049
Internal Rate Of Return         29.2%
-22-






Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No: of Persons and.Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation  Development
--  Mon'th/Year  Count        Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Idendfication/Preparation
06/20/1994                  1    Co-Task Manager, Senior
Municipal Engineer
I   Co-Task Manager, Operations
Officer
I   Municipal Engineer
I   Financial Specialist
I   Principal Economist
I   Housing Finance Consultant
I   Economist Consultant
I   Financial Specialist Consultant
I   Municipal Engineer Consultant
11/05/1994                  I    Co-Task Manager, Operations
Officer
I   Co-Task Manager, Municipal
I        Engineer
Division Chief
06/07/1995                  1    Task Manager, Principal
Operations Officer
I   Operations Officer
I   Municipal Engineer
I   Housing Finance Consultant
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/16/1995                  1    Task Manager, Principal
Operations Officer
I   Municipal Engineer
I   Operations Officer
2    Housing Finance Consultant
04/29/1996                  1    Task Manager, Principal
Operations Officer
I   Senior Counsel
1   Operations Officer
3    Financial Specialist
I   Municipal Engineer
I   Housing Finance Consultant
I    Sr. Disbursement Officer
I   Loan Accounting Officer
I   Financial Policy Analyst
I   Financial Analyst
Supervision
06/10/1997                   1   Task Manager, Principal            S             S
Operations Officer
I   Senior Municipal Engineer
- 23 -



I   Housing Finance Consultant
02/02/1998                   1   Task Manager, Principal            S            S
Operations Officer
2   Housing Finance Consultants
I   Senior Municipal Engineer
11/27/1998                   1   Task Manager, Principal           S             S
Operations Officer
I   Housing Finance Specialist
I   Housing Finance Consultant
07/15/1999                   1   Task Manager, Principal            S            S
Operations Officer
I   Housing Finance Specialist
I   Housing Finance Consultant
I   Operations Officer
01/24/2000                   1   Task Manager, Principal            S             S
Operations Officer
I   Housing Finance Specialist
01/23/2001                   1   Senior Housing Finance             S             S
Specialist
I   Operations Officer
02/24/2002                   1   Task Manager, Lead Operations      S             S
Officer
I   Housing Finance Specialist
I   Operations Officer
ICR
02/24/2002                   1   Task Manager, Lead                 S             S
Operations Officer.
I    Housing Finance Specialist
Operations Officer
(b) Staff.
- Stige of Poject Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks      .       US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                                           311
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                333
Supervision                                                          415
ICR                                                                   22
Total    .                                                          1,081
-24-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Sector Policies                     O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Financial                            O H  *SUOM      O N  O NA
El Institutional Development          O H   O SU O M   O N  0 NA
[] Environmental                      O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Social
Oi Poverty Reduction            O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Gender                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
OI Other (Please specify)       O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
LI Private sector development          0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 25-






Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
Z Lending                                          OHS*S Ou OHU
Z Supervision                                      OHS OS       OU    OHU
N Overall                                          OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
S Preparation                                      OHS OS       OU    O HU
z Government implementation performance            O HS O S     O U   0 HU
s Implementation agency performance                O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
Z Overall                                          OHS OS O U O HU
-26 -






Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform
Project. World Bank Report No. 15331-JO. July 2, 1996
2. Loan Agreement, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan and EBRD, September 4, 1996
3.  Project Agreement, IBRD and Secondary Mortgage Facility (JMRC), September 4, 1996
4. Model Participation Agreement, JMRC and financial institutions, 1997
5.  JMRC Credit Policy, October 18, 1997
6. Housing and Urban Sector Reform Project Study, Final Report. Llewelyn-Davies, EDU international,
Al-Mustashar, and Arthur Andersen (consultants), under oversight of the Housing and Urban Development
Corporation. March, 1996
7.  Project Supervision Files, including Aide-Memoire dated as follows, and their associated Project
Supervision Reports:
June, 1997
February, 1998
December, 1998 (including a separate Operational Note on issues related to JMRC's operations)
July, 1999 (including separate Operational Notes on JMRC and on housing subsidy schemes)
January, 2000 (Mid-term review report)
January, 2001
February, 2002
8.  JMRC Quarterly Progress Reports, 1997 - 2002
9.  JMRC Annual Reports, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001
- 27 -






Annex 8. Counterpart Completion Report
Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
Implementation Completion Report
Back2round
HUDC had realized the urgent need to launch a major reform in the housing sector that would result in
liberalizing the housing market where the private sector would play the major role. Therefore, HUDC
decided to carry out the sector studies, and designed a five years reform project, that is quite detailed and
well defined that reflects its goals. The project consisted of a package of reforms covering the major issues
in the housing sector.
HUDC investigated the possibility of the World Bank support of the reform project. The World Bank
agreed to extend the support through a loan agreement (USA$20 Million) signed with the Jordanian
Government in 1997.
Proiect Obiectives and Desien:
1.     Expand the participation of the private sector and the volume of resources it provides for both
housing development and housing finance for low and moderate-income housing.
2.     Reduce the burden of housing development and finance on public sector institution and the
government budget and help to extract the public sector from obligations and risks that the private sector
should be willing to assume.
3.     Increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the markets of private sectors housing development,
particularly for low and moderate-income housing.
4.     Mobilize financial flows for mortgage lending and enhance the affordability of housing by
lengthening available maturates and fostering banking competition.
The Reform Packaze:
HUDC team has managed the designated reforms during the project period of five years. A "Housing
Sector Reform Directorate" was established in July 25 1996 within the Housing Policies Dept., and the
"Public Private Sector Unit (3PU)" was established at the same date, within the HUDC-Property &
Beneficiary Affairs Dept.
The reform package, which came as a result of sector studies, in depth analysis and discussion of all the
parties in the sectors, covers a wide range of interrelated issues. The project as a whole, focused on the
main issues in the housing sector through its simple but solid design.
The reform package, as a whole, addressed regulatory policy and institutional matters of the sector. In view
of implementing the reforms, they were categorized specifically under two stages:
Stave 1 - Immediate Action Program
-28-



Reforms comprise the following:
1.     Granting full rights to the private sector to adopt and use the more affordable plot sizes and
building standards developed and used by HUDC. All developers will benefit from improved zoning and
development of more low income directed building standards:
2.    Increasing through zoning and re-zoning, the availability of the residential areas in the major urban
centers that are zoned in Category D (300 m2) and E (150 m2) or smaller.
3.     Change of HUDC's role and mandate from that of public sector producer of service land to that of
facilitator and promoter of private sector development of land housing for low and moderate-income
households.
4.     Simplify and streamline regulatory processes and procedures in land and housing sector
development such as permits for building and land development by the private sector.
5.     Establishment of a Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF) under the Jordanian companies law. The
SMF will have ownership participation by all key participants in the financial system.
Stage 2: (to be implemented within three years)
Reforms comprise the following-
1.    Revision of the laws and by-laws governing zoning to rationalize land use.
2.     Amendment of HUDC law and other governing legislations to improve the forrnulations of housing
policy and its imnplementation processes at all levels.
3.     HUDC will initiate a comprehensive study of land and urban planning management regulations.
4.     Goverment Housing Subsidy.
5.     Rental Sector.
6.     Taxation
Proiect Achievements
The project impact on the housing sector was evident in housing finance. The achievement on the
institutional reforms of the urban sector was considerably satisfactory.
The project did achieve its goals as a whole package, although there are still some actions that need follow
up and others that can be implemented in the convenient time.
The major factors affecting the achievement of project objectives:
1.     Lack of coordination between the main actors in the housing sector mainly in the government
circles, caused interference among the decisions and instructions issued during the project five years
implementation period, that badly affected the total achievement of the project.
2.     The housing private sector was hesitant in his response to the project, all measures were taken to
encourage him through the 3PU. It is worthy to mention here that the economic circumstances during the
last five years were not helpful. Also the housing private sector in Jordan consists from relatively small
investors, individuals or companies, their policy is to invest in isolated apartment building or small housing
projects.
The project impact is expected to continue and grow up gradually in the near future, as the basic ideas
-29-



the project could initiate, were deeply established and adopted by the acting and concerned departments in
the urban sector through out the country.
The World Bank supervision team was very cooperative and helpful during the project initiation and
implementation period.
The lessons drawn from the project can be summarized as follows:
1.    The project proposed a package of reforms in the housing sector, some of which are easy to
implement but others are difficult due to their socioeconomic structure, and could not be completed in five
years.
2.    HUDC is supposed to perform as an umbrella for the housing sector. But on the other hand, there
are other parties, ministries or departments, who are considered as the main players in the sector according
to zoning law. This fact was ignored and thus caused a lot a of trouble to HUDC such as freezing the
action related to zoning law, which we consider as a key action.
The Housinig Fund
The Housing Loans Subsidy Program financed its payments from the privatization proceeds. It was
designed to provide low and moderate income civil servants an interest rate subsidy on qualifying
mortgages. Therefore, the program assists the affordability of the loans where the lending banks receive 5%
of the interest rate directly from the government.
This program was not included in the Housing Financed Project, but due to the World Bank encouragement
of the program during the previous missions and following up its progress and due to its importance in the
housing finance, its included in this report.
The program commenced its first cycle in August 2000, which lasted until June 2001. The second cycle
began in August 2001 while the third in March 2002. The detail of its operation is explained in the
following table:
Cycle        Time          No. of          No. of          No. of          No. of
Period      Applications     Qualified       Certificates     Loans
Applicants         Issued        Received
First     8/ 2000-6/ 2001    6193            3000            2638             171
Second     8/ 2001-2/2002     2000            1971            1521            323
Third         3/ 2001-
Total                       8193             4971            4159            494
As indicated in the table, the rate of certificates holders that was able to get loans had improved from 6.5%
in the first cycle to around 21% in the second and about 12% in over all. This improvement was due to the
modifications of some of the program eligibility criteria as a result of a study conducted on the certificate
holders. The modifications included:
*      Family income ceiling was raised from 500 JD a month to 1000.
*      The value of the unit was raised from the highest of 22000 JD to 30000 JD in order to get a
supported loan of 10000 JD for new residence not exceeding 150 sq. meters or 5000 JD for an extension up



to 150 sq. meters.
*      The validity period of the certificates extended from 4 months to 6.
A new detailed study commenced on the qualified applicants who received loans and who are rejected
which will take the mission notes and advice into account. The study, which will be completed in June, will
focus on the program weaknesses. Depending on its results and recommendations, the Housing Fund
committee is expected to undertake further changes in the criteria of the program.
Public Drivate partnership:
A unit for the public/ private partnership (3P unit) was established on the 23rd Sep 1996, within the
organizational structure of HUDC under the Property and beneficiary affairs department. The main goal of
the unit is to accelerate the implementation of HUDC housing policy concerning the reform of the housing
sector. Specially giving the private sector the right to use the housing models and standards developed by
HUDC for the different housing projects, and to increase the production of small suitable plots according to
such standards.
3P unit worked closely with developers members of (JHDA), the work has successfully produced
(655)-housing units (up to the end of 2001), out of which 83.5% was of an area below 120 m2.
Development of serviced land plots was not as successful, but HUDC has signed a project with a certain
developer for the development of (70 000) m2 land to produce about (197) serviced plots in Amman
(during 2002).
Tracldng of Indicators for the achievement of Project Objectives (Urban Sector Reform Component)
Objective: Reduction of regulatory barriers that constrain the private sector from operating in lower -
income markets:
*        HUDC instructions and guidelines for low and moderate-income housing projects were
formulated. These instructions are submitted to the Ministry of Municipalities Rural Affairs and
Environment for approval.
*      The High Planning Council issued Decision No. 1955 dated Nov. 23, 1997 concerning the
instructions pertaining to Investment & Cooperative Housing Projects. A workshop was held April 16,
1999 to disseminate these instructions to the private developers, financial companies and municipalities.
*      The law of the Tenants and Rentals No 11 (1994) was amended in 2001. The main feature of the
new law is the adoption the principle of contractual agreement between the two parties: the tenants and the
rentals.
Objective: Launch a new public-private partnership process to attract and promote private sector
participation in land and housing development for lower income households.
Achievement: A Public-Private Sector partnership Unit (3PU) was established in September 26, 1996
within the HUDC-Property & Beneficiary Affairs Dept.
*      HUDC developed mechanisms that will attract and facilitate private sector development of land
and housing for low and moderate-income households. HUDC land activities should decline over time,
- 31 -



while private sector involvement in low-income housing provision will be optimized. (PP3 Unit Report).
Objective: Regulatory Reform Measures including:
Granting full rights to the private sector to adopt and use the more affordable plot sizes and building
standards developed and used by HUDC:
Achievement: All developers will benefit from improved zoning and development of more low-income
directed building standards.
Increasing the availability of residential areas zoned for Category D (300m2) and E (1 50m2) or smaller
Plots.
Achievement: HUDC continued the efforts to promote the development of smaller plot sizes completing a
pilot project of down zoning a site in cooperation with the municipality of the city of Al Mafraq, and
starting a second project of re-zoning a second site at the city of Al-Salt. HUDC is intending to disseminate
such exercises into other cities in coordination with the Ministry of Municipalities and Rural Affairs and
Environment. A report was prepared documenting all activities and studies on this issue. The report
contained the related information and recommendation to foster this policy.
Simplifying and streamlining regulatory processes and procedures for land and housing sector development,
such as permits for building and land development:
Achievement: A committee was established from the representatives of concerned service departments and
private developers in housing sector. The committee reviewed the procedures in these departments and
suggested the required streamlining and issued a report.
Legislation designed to make zoning for land use more responsive to market needs and to improve the
formulation and implementation of housing policy:
Achievement: No progress has been achieved on this activity, since the Ministry of Municipalities Rural
Affairs & Environment did not support the execution of such study in particular or even similar study.
(Considerable progress was made to the stage of awarding the contract).
Objective: A fundamental change in HUDC role and mandate from that of public sector producer of
serviced land to that of policy formulator, facilitator and promoter of private sector development of land
and housing for low and moderate income households.
Achievement: No progress
Objective: Enhancement of HUDC cost allocation systems for each of its lines of business and
establishment of budgeting and financial management systems to ensure full coverage of its assets and
liabilities.
Achievement: HUDC carried out a study through a local consultant in April 2001 to improve its budgeting
and accounting systems (Tender No. 17/am/2000). The new systems were approved and adopted by the top
management and the implementation process is now in progress.
- 32 -



Objective: Cessation of HUDC purchase or acquisition of land exceeding an aggregate off 50 hectares,
except as approved by the minister of Public Works and Housing.
Achievement: HUDC continued to purchase a limited amount of land for development at a very limited
scale to enable keeping and financing its working staff. The total area of land purchased during the years
1997 through 2001 did not exceed 180 hectares. It is worthy to mention here that HUDC is self financing
its projects, and its land portfolio is insufficient
General component indicator:
Perfonnance Indicator           1998      1999     2000      2001
Private-sector developed land as a percentage  -      -         -        -
of total land developed by the private sector
and HUDC.
Total number of plots of land developed by the  -      -        -         -
private sector.
Area of HUDC land on which the private secto  -    13766 m'     -     20794 m'
has constructed housing.
otal number of private-sector developed housing  -   253        -     402 units
units.                                                m2
Private-sector developed housing units under         172                375
0120M2 on HUDC land.                                Units              Units
- 33 -



