Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15331-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
july 2, 1996
Private Sector Development and Infrastructure Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY
Currency Unit: Jordanian Dinar (JD)
(As of April 1996)
JD 1.0= 100 fils
JD 1.0  US$1.40
US$1.0 = JD 0.71
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFM                     Amman Financial Market
ASAL            =       Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
CBJ             =       Central Bank of Jordan
ERDL            =       Economic Reform and Development Loan
ERR             =       Economic Rate of Return
ESAL            =       Energy Sector Adjustment Loan
GAM             =       Greater Amman Municipality
GATT                   General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs
GDP             =       Gross Domestic Product
GOJ             =       Government of Jordan
HB              =       Housing Bank
HC              =       Housing Corporation
HUDC            =       Housing and Urban Development Corporation
ICB             =       International Competitive Bidding
IMF                     International Monetary Fund
JMRC            =      Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company
LSD             =       Land Survey Department
LSP             =       Letter of Sector Policy
PIU             =       Project Implementation Unit
PFI             =       Participating Financial Institution
PPE             =       Private Production Entity
PSD             =       Private Sector Development
SMF             =       Secondary Mortgage Facility
SOE             =       Statement of Expenditure
SSC             =       Social Security Corporation
TA              =       Technical Assistance
UDD             =       Urban Development Department
WTO             =      World Trade Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................. i-ii-iii
1. THE HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTORS .I
A. Sector Background .I
B. Policy and Institutional Constraints                      .2
An Incomplete Market in Housing Finance                     .2
Role of the Private Sector                          .3
C. Government Strategy                                 .3
D. Lessons of Previous Bank Experience                        .3
2 _   T  E P R  J  C   .................................................................................................3
2.  THE PROJECT..
A. Project Objectives and Description                        .3
Features of the SMF                              .4
Credit Demand                                  .6
Financial Analysis of the SMF                         .6
Features of the Institutional and Regulatory Reform Measures         .6
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement                           .8
C. Project Sustainability                              .8
D. Project Objective Categories and Environmental Impact               .8
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING                                      .9
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Jordan in December 1995. The
mission comprised Ms./Messrs. Deane Jordan, Principal Operations Officer/Task Manager, MN2PI;
Mohammed Feghoul, Municipal Engineer, MN2PI; Faye Lumsden, Operations Officer, MN2PI; Douglas
Diamond, Housing Finance Consultant; and Ahmed Sani bin Mat, Mortgage Market Specialist from
Cagamas Berhad, Malaysia. The report was produced by Mmes. Sonia Wheeler and Eugenia Dennis,
MN2PI. Peer reviewers were Ms./Messrs. Bertrand Renaud, Principal Housing Specialist, FSD; Robert
Buckley, Principal Economist, TWURD; and Tufan Kolan, Principal Operations Officer, MN2PI. The
Regional Vice President is Mr. Kemal Dervis, MNA; the Department Director is Mr. Inder K. Sud, MN2;
and the Division Chief is Mr. Alastair J. McKechnie, MN2PI.



ii                                                              Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform  Project
4.      PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ................................................I I
A. Implementation Arrangements ................................................11
B.  Bank Supervision ................................................1.1
C. Procurement ............................................... 12
D.  Disbursement ...............................................                                                 12
Special Accounts ............................................... 13
E.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ...............................................                           13
5.      BENEFITS AND  RISKS ...............................................                                              14
A. Project Benefits ...............................................                                              14
B.  Economic Analysis ...............................................                                            14
C.  Project Risks ...............................................                                                15
6.      AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND  RECOMMENDATION ............................................ 15
TEXT TABLES
I.   Project Cost Estimate .................................................9
2.   Project Financing Plan ................................................                                    10
3.   Disbursements Against Project Components ....................                    ............................ 1 3
ANNEXES
Annex I  -    Housing Finance and the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Annex 2  -    Letter of Sector Policy
Annex 3  -    Eligibility Criteria for Use of the SMF
Annex 4  -    Financial Analysis and Projections of SMF Operations
Annex 5  -    Project Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators
Annex 6  -    Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
Annex 7 -  Disbursement Schedule
Annex 8 -  Economic Analysis of the SMF
Annex 9  -    Selected Documents in the Project File
MAP:                IBRD 27762



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Implementing
Agencies:              Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ)
Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF)
Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC)
Beneficiaries:         Secondary Mortgage Facility
Housing and Urban Development Corporation
Participating financial institutions (PFIs)
Loan Amount:           US$20 million
Terms:                 20 years maturity, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard LIBOR-
based interest rate for US dollar-denominated single currency loans
Onlending Terms:       The Government would onlend to the SMF about US$19.6 million from the
proceeds of the Bank loan. The subsidiary loan would be denominated in
Jordanian Dinars and carry a market rate of interest. The interest rate would
be variable over the full term of the loan and the timing for resetting the rate
would be determined at the option of the SMF at the time of drawdown. At
each resetting, the new rate would be equivalent to that obtained by the SMF
on bonds of comparable duration within the preceding three months, or, in the
absence of such a rate, the rate on a ten-year government security plus a
premium reflecting the historical market premiums of SMF bonds over treasury
securities. The SMF would repay the subsidiary loan in accordance with an
amortization schedule similar to that for the Bank loan. SMF lending terms to
PFIs would be market-determined and, in the aggregate, would be made in a
manner that minimizes interest rate risk for the SMF. SMF loans to PFIs
would, at the option of the SMF, be for 3, 5, 7, or 10 year maturities, or other
maturities as may be agreed between the Bank and the SMF. Each SMF loan
to a PFI would be collateralized by PFI mortgage loans equivalent to 120% of
the principal amount of the loan being extended by the SMF. SMF loans to
PFIs would be repaid in full at maturity, without repayment of any principal
before maturity.
Project Objectives
and Description:       The proposed project is intended to support the Government's strategy  to
improve the efficiency of the housing and housing finance sectors, promote
private sector development in land and housing production, and reduce the
Government's role in both sectors. The primary focus of the project would be on
housing finance. Through the establishment of a Secondary Mortgage Facility,
the project would aim to improve the efficiency with which medium- to longer-
term financial flows for mortgage lending are mobilized, to facilitate and foster



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
competition in market-based mortgage lending, and to lengthen the term
structure of mortgage lending. Through the implementation of institutional and
regulatory reforms in the real sector, the project would aim to improve the
enabling environment for responsive private sector participation and competition
in land and housing development for lower income households. The proposed
Bank loan would finance: (a) a line of credit to the SMF of about US$19.0
million to support the first five year period of its mortgage refinancing program
(about US$141.0 million equivalent); (b) the establishment costs of the SMF,
comprising about US$200,000 for equipment and about US$400,000 for
consulting services, training, and technical assistance; and (c) technical
assistance services and training totaling about US$400,000 for HUDC, which
would be responsible for implementing the reforms in the real sector.
Benefits:              Principal project benefits, which may take several years beyond the project
implementation period to achieve, include: (a) better housing conditions
resulting indirectly from greater availability of medium- to longer-term
mortgage financing and from private housing development; (b) the financial
deepening of the banking system and bond market; (c) improved resource
efficiency in meeting the needs of the low and moderate income housing market;
and (d) a reduced claim on the Government's budget by the housing sector.
Principal beneficiaries would include: (a) low and moderate income households,
who should benefit from the lower costs of home ownership resulting from
increased efficiency in the real estate market; (b) most borrowers for housing,
who should gain from improved access to mortgage finance and lengthened
mortgage maturities; (c) banks and investors, who should be able to utilize the
SMF to gain substantial improvements in operational management and
efficiency; and (d) the Government, which should be able to reduce budgetary
expenditures and transfer much of the risks associated with housing
development to the private sector.
Risks:                 The major project risks relate to the SMF, which involves considerable risk
overall. First, there is a risk that loan demand from PFIs may not materialize as
early as forecast, or in the volume estimated. Second, there is a risk that SMF
bond operations to raise funds to meet loan demand may develop more slowly
than anticipated, either because it may take longer than anticipated for the SMF
to become proficient in bond operations, or because the market may take longer
than anticipated to accept bonds that are marketed without a government
guarantee. The SMF may not be viable without a guarantee of the initial SMF
bonds, subject to a sunset provision. This risk would be mitigated partly by the
amount of initial capitalization of the SMF, the ownership participation of the
CBJ, and the subordination by the SMF of debt service on the subsidiary loan
relative to payments on SMF bonds. Should any of these risks unfold, the
disbursement of the proposed Bank loan could be adversely affected. Overall,
the risks are considered acceptable when viewed in relation to the expected
benefits of the SMF, and in relation to the amount of resources being placed at
risk. Under the institutional and regulatory reform component, there is a risk
that internal opposition could weaken the Government's resolve to implement
the reforms, since they would reduce the public sector's role in land
development. Recent actions taken by the Government and HUDC should
mitigate this risk.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                                               iii
Project Cost Estimate
Foreign as   % of
Percentage  Total
Project Components            Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign    Total         of       Base
JD million               US$ million           Total     Costs
1. Secondary Mortgage Facility
1. 1 SMF Refinancing Program           86.5    13.5    100.0  122.0    19.0        141.0      13.5      99.4
1.2 Equipment for the SMF               0.0      0.1      0.1    0.0      0.1        0.1     70.0        0.1
1.3 Technical Assistance to the SMF    -ad. I   Q2        0l1 -3   1 OI    03        0.4     70.        __3
Subtotal SMF Component           86.6    13.8    100.4  122.1    19.4        141.5     13.7       99.8
2. Institutional & Regulatory Reforms
Technical Assistance to HUDC            0.1      0.2      0.3    0.1      0.3        0.4     70.0        0.2
Total Base Costs                        86.7    14.0    100.7  122.2    19.7         141.9     13.9      100.0
Physical Contingencies                   0.0      0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0        0.0     70.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                      0.0      0.1       0.1    0.0      0.1        0.1     70.0       0.1
Total Project Cost                      86.7    14.1    100.8  122.2    19.8         142.0     13.9      100.1
Financing Plan
Financing Sources                         Local        Foreign        Total         % of
__            US$ million ---                 Total
Secondary Mortgage Facility                                  0.02            -           0.02
Housing and Urban Development Corporation                    0.01            -           0.01            -
Private Sector (Bond Investors)                             122.0            -          122.0          86
IBRD                                                        -0.2            1.          -20            14
Total                               122.2           19.8         142.0         100
Commitment Fee:               0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Estimated Disbursement:
Fiscal Year                      1997           1998          1999           2000           2001          2002
------------------------------ US$ million ----------------------------------
Annual                            2.9            6.4            5.3            4.1            1.3           0.0
Cumulative                        2.9            9.3           14.6           18.7           20.0          20.0
Percent of Total                 14.6           46.4           72.8          93.4          100.0          100.0
Economic Rate of Return: 15 to 20 percent (for the SMF component)
Poverty Category:            Not applicable
Map No.:                     IBRD 27762
Project Identification No.: 5323






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1.  THE HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTORS
A. Sector Background
1.1    Housing is an important part of the Jordanian economy; it accounted for about one-fourth to one-
half of gross fixed capital formation during the period 1985 to 1991. Excluding the refugee camps, the
annual demand for new housing units is estimated at about 22,000. The contribution of the construction
sector to GDP (in constant prices), of which housing forms an important part, averaged around 8 percent per
annum between 1988 and 1992. In the low income housing market, a 1993 Bank poverty assessment found
no major housing quantity problems, but occupancy rates of about 3.3 persons per room suggest some
overcrowding.  In the urban areas where about 70 percent of the total population live, overall access to
infrastructure services is high; however, the infrastructure is currently facing increasing demand and many
older networks have deteriorated substantially.2
1.2    Like many countries, Jordan for many years has pursued policies and strategies emphasizing public
sector responsibility for meeting the basic housing needs of low and moderate income households. In the
real sector, government housing agencies were established to develop and service land and housing; their
sustainability depended on preferential tax, fee and legal treatments, and priority access to government land,
property rights and subsidized financing. The public sector housing agencies were merged in 1992 to form
the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC), whose mandate includes the development, sale
and mortgage financing of land and housing targeted to lower income households, and also the formulation
of housing policy. In recent years, the Government has been reducing HUDC's direct production role in the
sector by largely limiting it to land development activities.  HUDC enjoys all of the privileges of
government agencies; has access to government land for development purposes; a government guarantee
against its debts; and authority to issue debentures. It currently has a staff of about 600, substantially in
excess of current needs, as well as a large portfolio of raw land and other real estate assets, and a financial
portfolio of subsidized mortgage loans. Its mortgage portfolio has been financed by loans and credits
funded by the Government, and is currently valued at about JD65 million. In recent years, however, interest
earned on financial assets has been HUDC's principal source of revenues, accounting for about 50 percent
of total revenues. Land development has accounted for about 25 percent of revenues. Its land holdings
range from a large number of small plots in developed areas with high values per square meter, to large
tracts in prime areas ready for development and large tracts in areas not likely to be developed for many
years.
/  Home ownership is high (about 75 percent), even for the poor; vacancy rates are high (11 percent); and the share
of permanent housing is also high (about 97 percent). Nevertheless, there are emerging problems that are
exacerbated by Jordan's high urban population growth and household formation rates (about 5.7 percent and 4.0
percent per annum, respectively). Average household size is now about 7.0 persons.
2 / Piped water is available to about 97 percent of the urban population but supply is intermittent for a significant
proportion of urban dwellers. More than 55 percent of all urban households are connected to the sewer system.
Solid waste collection is generally adequate, and about 99 percent of the population has access to electricity.
Primary urban road networks are well developed and generally of good quality, and access roads and internal
roads in low and middle income settlements are adequate in most areas. Upgrading in many low income areas is
nearly completed, with the exception of the refugee camps.



2                                                  Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reforrn Project
1.3    Similarly, in the financial sector, the Government has been intervening in housing finance thtrough
its sponsorship and subsidization of the Housing Bank (HB). HB is privately owned but with management
under the control of the Government. HB has been able to offer housing loans at below-market rates (as low
as 7 percent) and for longer termns (up to 15 years) than other banks because of a variety of special
privileges. In recent years, however, HB has increasingly acted along the lines of a regular commercial
bank, with direct loans to home buyers accounting for less than 15 percent of its portfolio. In 1996, the
Government is planning to introduce amendments to the Housing Bank Law to reduce most of HB's special
privileges. As discussed below, removing these and all remaining privileges is essential to the further
development of housing finance, but could also reduce the affordability of housing for low and moderate
income households.
1.4   In addition to supporting HB, the Government has provided below-market funding to HUDC for its
clients and also large amounts of low-rate or zero-rate financing for military personnel. The other banks,
particularly the Jordan Islamic Bank, make a modest amount of market rate loans, generally for fixed rates
for only 5-7 years, targeted primarily to upper-income households. Cash savings, particularly in the form of
remittances, provides the bulk of funding for housing. Overall, total housing lending is less than 10 percent
of GDP.
1.5    The subsidized housing finance provided by the Government has imposed a budgetary burden; in
1993, the present value of mortgage rate subsidy obligations held by the Government totaled about $67
million equivalent. The subsidies frequently did not reach the lowest income groups. The access of the
housing agencies to government land and subsidized government finance, combined with the absence of
strict market discipline, has occasionally led to major inefficiencies in the use of scarce government
resources. One large public housing scheme, for example, significantly misjudged the market, and required
a large government financial bailout of the agencies involved. Today, the Government wants to withdraw
from the subsidization of housing finance and also reduce its role in the real sector. The proposed project
would support these goals.
B. Policy and Institutional Constraints
1.6    An Incomplete Market in Housing Finance. Many of the conditions for an effective housing
finance system in Jordan are in place (Annex 1). The financial system includes the Housing Bank, 17
commercial banks and one savings bank, as well as the Amman Financial Market (AFM) which is becoming
a vibrant equities market. In addition, the macroeconomic environment and legal framework are conducive
to an effective housing finance system; inflation is less than 5 percent per annum, interest rates are
liberalized, and the legal system for foreclosure in the event of default is reasonably satisfactory.
Nevertheless, market-based mortgage financing has been relatively limited and confined generally to lower
risk mortgages for higher income housing. In recent years, only HB and the government housing agencies
have made mortgage financing available for the low income market, using various government subsidies.
The banking sector relies on deposits (mainly short-term) for funding because the primary and secondary
markets in bonds and other term securities, while emerging, are still underdeveloped.3 The shallow
securities market limits both the opportunities for the banking sector to raise term finance to fund
3/ Although the AFM has established systems for bond trading, the corporate bond market remains underdeveloped
primarily because of: (a) the market's traditional preference for equity; (b) stringent conditions in the Companies
Law for issuance of corporate debt; (c) a lack of credit rating mechanisms; and (iv) a customary expectation for
govemment guarantees on bond issues. Moreover, the practice of the Central Bank of Jordan has been to
repurchase govemment debt at face value. As a result, even private investment and commercial banks have not
been able to use bond markets to fund their term lending operations. However, in the Letter of Development
Policy for the Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL) (Ln. 3947-JO), approved on October 24, 1995,
the Govemment has committed to the implementation of financial market and legal reforms in 1996 that should
support growth in the bond market.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                                3
mortgages, and also the liquidity of mortgages. The current market situation therefore constrains prudent
mortgage lending by the banking sector and thus the sector's willingness to engage in a greater volume of
longer-terrn mortgage lending.4
1.7    Role of the Private Sector. Although the formnal private sector dominates and operates effectively
in the market for middle and high income housing, the emergence of formal private sector solutions to lower
income housing problems has been hindered particularly by the private sector's lack of access to the special
privileges that have been enjoyed by government housing agencies, including access to land zoned for small
plot sizes, and special, lower cost building standards. Only small owner-builders and other informal
developers have also operated in the lower income housing market, many operating in accordance with legal
building requirements but some operating haphazardly outside the legal framework. Zoning practices have
distorted the land market available to the private sector, by setting aside most land in prime urban housing
areas for large plot sizes which are unaffordable to low and moderate income households, and which are
also inefficient in the use of available infrastructure.
C. Government Strategy
1.8    The Government's past reliance on government housing agencies to develop land and housing for
the lower income market has exposed the Government to significant commercial risks, allowed
inefficiencies to drain resources from the Government's overall development efforts, and undermined the
potential role of the private sector. Consistent with Jordan's emphasis in recent years on developing
sustainable, private sector solutions to economic problems, the Government intends to shift responsibility to
the private sector for developing land and housing for lower income households, and to implement measures
to mobilize increased longer-term, market-based financing for mortgage lending. Over time, public sector
activities would be increasingly reduced to policy, planning and research and basic upgrading works. The
proposed project would support the implementation of this strategy. The Government has recorded its
commitment to this strategy and to related policy reforms in a Letter of Sector Policy (LSP) (Annex 2).
D. Lessons of Previous Bank Experience
1.9    Since 1979, the Bank has provided support for three sites and services and upgrading projects. The
operations were successful in developing new housing, but required subsidies that tended to distort the
market, frequently did not reach lower income households, and hindered replication. The Bank has also
supported two municipal projects whose sustainability has been jeopardized by structural weaknesses (size,
revenue bases) in the targeted secondary cities. The lessons learned are that more fundamental, market-
promoting changes are necessary to ensure replicability and economic efficiency, and that these must have
the full commitment and support of the Government. The lessons are consistent with Bank-wide experience
that has confirmed the importance of several principles relevant to Jordanian circumstances, including the
need to separate subsidies from finance and to apply affordability criteria to the design of land use and
construction standards. The lessons have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
2.    THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
2.1    The proposed project is intended to support the Government's strategy to improve the efficiency of
the housing and housing finance sectors, promote private sector development in land and housing
4/ Lending maturities are prudently short because of the liquidity and interest rate risks inherent in the potential
mismatch of the maturity structures of borrowing and lending. Only about 30 percent of the total number of loans
extended by the banking system carry maturities of more than one year, and only a small percentage of them carry
maturities over three years.



4                                                Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
production, and reduce the Government's role in both sectors. The primary focus of the project would be on
housing finance. Through the establishment of a Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF), the project would
aim to improve the efficiency with which medium- and longer-term financial flows for mortgage lending are
mobilized, to facilitate and foster competition in market-based mortgage lending, and to lengthen the term
structure of mortgage lending. The SMF is expected to make mortgage lending more attractive to lenders,
by permitting them to reduce the liquidity risks of medium- and longer-term mortgage lending, and also
possibly to access funds for housing at a lower effective cost. However, there would be no direct linkages
between SMF operations and lending for low-cost housing.
2.2    Through the implementation of institutional and regulatory reforms in the real sector, the project
would also aim to improve the enabling environment for responsive private sector participation and
competition in land and housing development for lower income households.
2.3    The project would:
(a)    Establish a Secondary Mortgage Facility, to: (i) indirectly promote medium- to longer-
term, market-based financial flows into the mortgage market by providing financial
institutions with a source of liquidity for their longer-term lending for mortgages; (ii) raise
aggregate financial flows by offering investors medium- to longer-tern bonds of
transparently low risk; and (iii) increase liquidity in the bond market by expanding the
supply of tradable longer-term securities; and
(b)    Implement Institutional and Regulatory Reforms, to: (i) reduce the regulatory barriers
that constrain the private sector from entering and competing in the lower income housing
and land development markets, and from responding efficiently and effectively to market
signals and needs; and (ii) reorient the role and mandate of the HUDC to be a facilitator and
promoter of private sector development of land and housing for lower income households.
2.4    Bank financing for the proposed project, including contingencies, would comprise: (a) a line of
credit to the SMF (about US$19.0 million equivalent); (b) funds to finance the initial establishment costs of
the SMF (about US$600,000); and funds to finance consulting services for HUDC's reorientation (about
US$400,000).
2.5    Features of the Secondary Mortgage Facility (Annexes I and 3).5 The SMF's draft charter was
reviewed during negotiations, and assurances were obtained that the charter would not be amended without
the prior agreement of the Bank. Following negotiations of the proposed Bank loan, the SMF was legally
established under the Companies Law on June 5, 1996 as the Jordan Mortgage Refinance Company
(JMRC). A Board of Directors comprising nine members including the Chairman has been elected. The
SMF has ownership participation by all key participants in the financial system (e.g., CBJ, HUDC, Social
Security Corporation and banks), and majority ownership is held by twelve private banks. The Government
has taken on a minority shareholding to ensure that the SMF is responsive to the needs of both bond
investors and mortgage lenders. The Chairman of the Board of the SMF would be the Governor of CBJ, the
Deputy Governor of CBJ, or another Board member whom the Governor has approved. The SMF's charter
prohibits any single bank (other than CBJ), or private sector participant, from acquiring more than 10
percent ownership of the SMF. The capital of the SMF totals about US$7 million equivalent. The SMF
would be the main beneficiary of the proposed Bank loan which would be on-lent from the Government
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (viz., subsidiary loan).
5/ The conceptual design of the SMF has been formulated in consultation with representatives of the Government, the
banking sector, the housing sector, contractual savings institutions, and the private sector, and with advice from
the Malaysian SMF, Cagamas Berhad.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                             5
2.6   In accordance with its charter, the SMF would have two main activities and a very narrow mandate
to shield it from substantial risk. The first activity would be to refinance mortgage loans originated by
commercial banks and other eligible financial institutions regulated by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ)
(hereinafter referred to as participating financial institutions (PFIs)) on the strength of pledged collateral
consisting solely of mortgages on owner-occupied and rental residential housing, which generally comprises
the safest part of a bank's loan portfolio. The PFIs would be required to pledge as collateral an amount in
mortgages greater than the amount of the SMF refinancing loan (para. 3.5). The SMF would not accept any
risks associated with the original mortgage loans (e.g., credit risk, interest rate risk, pre-payment risk); the
ownership of the mortgages and all risks would remain with the originating PFI. Eligible PFIs would be
financially strong, privately owned institutions that satisfy the CBJ's capital adequacy requirements and all
other applicable banking regulations, and that have the institutional capacity to undertake mortgage lending
activities. The eligibility criteria for PFIs is summarized in Annex 3.
2.7    The second activity of the SMF would be to raise funds for lending to the PFIs by offering bonds to
long-term investors who, at the outset, are expected to comprise mainly the Social Security Corporation
(SSC) and possibly insurance companies. The bonds are expected to be offered and appraised in the market
without the advantage of a government guarantee. The SSC holds most of the long-term financial savings
generated in the economy through pension and retirement funds. Its assets currently total about $1 billion
equivalent and are invested mainly in short-term bank deposits, certificates of deposit, bonds and loans. The
insurance sector accounts for about 4 percent of the assets of the financial system. The maturities and terms
of SMF bonds would be matched to those of SMF loans to the PFIs, except for a spread to cover the
expenses of the SMF and a return on its capital. SMF loans to PFIs would be "bullet" loans, which would
not be prepayable before maturity unless the bonds issued by the SMF are also prepayable. SMF bonds are
expected to be nearly risk-free because they would be backed by mortgage collateral held by the SMF (para.
3.5). In addition, during negotiations, assurances were obtained that debt service on the subsidiary loan
would be subordinated by the SMF to payments on its outstanding bonds as a means of providing a measure
of confidence and security to potential purchasers of SMF bonds in the absence of explicit government
guarantees. In addition, the amortization schedule of the subsidiary loan would be similar to that for the
Bank loan to endow it with a maturity structure that would better qualify it as semi-pernanent capital.
Potential bond purchasers might also derive a measure of confidence from the CBJ's ownership participation
in the SMF.
2.8    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the SMF would be exempted from  limits
imposed by the Companies Law upon the issuance of corporate debt. In this regard, the Government is
currently working on proposed changes to the Companies Law that would help to facilitate the further
development of the bond market. Pending their enactment into law, the Government has obtained the
approval of the Issuing Committee, as specified under the provisions of the existing Companies Law, to
exempt the SMF from the Law's current limitations on the issuance of bonds. In addition, by December 31,
1996, the Government would formulate and implement appropriate mechanisms to facilitate and streamline
the registration and transfer of liens by the SMF. Secondary trading in SMF bonds is expected to emerge
gradually among banks and institutional investors as their portfolio requirements change, either through
direct placements or through trading on the AFM, which would also facilitate bond purchases by small
individual investors.
2.9    During negotiations, assurances were obtained regarding the treatment of SMF bonds with respect
to both taxation and the liquidity reserve holdings of banks. Interest derived from SMF bonds would be
exempted from taxation in accordance with current tax laws. To encourage the development of the overall
6/ The CBJ has adopted the Basle guidelines relating to capital adequacy, and has also issued detailed guidelines
relating to classification of loans that are in conformity with intemational practices. Most Jordanian banks would
meet these requirements.



6                                                  Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
bond market, and in recognition of the SMF's low-risk status, SMF bonds would be eligible to serve as
liquidity reserve holdings of banks and would be risk-weighted at 20 percent for the purpose of calculating
the capital adequacy ratios of banks. This is expected to greatly enhance the tradability and liquidity of the
bonds issued by the SMF. The bonds would also qualify as investments for insurance companies and
pension funds. Assurances were also obtained that SMF loans to financial institutions would be treated as
interbank lending for regulatory purposes, on the grounds that SMF loans would be longer-termn than
deposits and have set terms.
2.10   Credit Demand. The cumulative demand for SMF loans by PFIs during the period of the project is
estimated to total around JDIOO million (US$141.0 million equivalent), or about JD20-30 million annually.
This estimate is conservative when viewed in comparison with the current stock of mortgages held by the
banking sector that could possibly qualify for refinancing, estimated at about JDIOO million (about US$140
million equivalent), and in comparison with the annual flow in mortgage financing of about JD35 million
(about US$50 million equivalent). Actual levels of activity, however, would depend on conditions
prevailing in the financial market and the extent of subsidized housing finance being provided through other
market participants.
2.11   Financial Analysis of the SMF (Annex 4). The financial success of the SMF would depend
primarily on whether lenders perceive the cost of and features of SMF funding to be attractive relative to
funds raised by deposit-taking. The net cost of SMF funds is projected to be somewhat lower than the all-in
cost of large deposits. This projection nets out the cost of meeting reserve requirements for deposits (at
least 200 basis points) from the spread needed by the SMF to cover its costs of operations (about 135 basis
points). However, investors in SMF bonds would require a higher return than on deposits to compensate for
differences in tenor, term of rate (if fixed rate bonds), and perceptions of credit risk. If this premium is less
than 70 basis points, the refinance rate of the SMF should be no more than the all-in cost of deposits and the
other advantages of SMF funding should be costless to the PFIs.
2.12   The second major consideration is the volume of refinancing. The operating and capital costs of the
SMF would be relatively fixed, and thus the required spread would depend on volume. The pro-forrna
financial projections assume a steady growth towards about JDIOO million in outstanding refinance after
four years from the start of operations, a volume sufficient to meet a profitability goal of a 15 percent after-
tax return on capital in the fourth or fifth year. This volume reflects a target of refinancing 40 percent of the
projected pool of eligible lending after four years from the start of operations.
2.13   Features of the Institutional and Regulatory Reform Measures.7 The proposed reforn measures
would support the emergence of an efficient private sector real estate industry responsive to the needs of low
and moderate income households. In particular, they would: (a) reduce the regulatory barriers that
constrain the private sector from operating in the lower income markets; and (b) launch a new Public-
Private Partnership Process to attract and promote private sector participation in land and housing
development for lower income households.
2.14   The principal regulatory reform measures comprise:
(a)    Granting full rights to the private sector to adopt and use the more affordable plot sizes and
building standards developed and used by HUDC in the past; all developers would benefit
7 / The features of the institutional and regulatory reform  component have been formulated by HUDC with the
assistance of consultants financed under the recently closed National Urban Development Project (Loan 2841 -JO).
Five restructuring studies have been carried out on: (a) the functional and financial parameters related to the
possible establishment of a private production entity (a potential altemative for HUDC that the Govemment
decided against); (b) HUDC's financial portfolio; (c) HUDC's land holdings; (d) HUDC's activities and staff; and
(e) the facilitation of private sector land and housing development. HUDC's recommendations have been
discussed widely in Jordan through housing conferences and seminars that it has organized.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                             7
from improved zoning and development regulation, which should be capable of making
private development significantly more affordable;
(b)    Promoting, through zoning and re-zoning, the increased availability in the major urban
centers of residential areas zoned for Category D (300 m2) and E (150 m2) or smaller plots;
and
(c)    Simplifying and streamlining, by 1997, regulatory processes and procedures for land and
housing sector development such as permits for building and land development.
2.15   During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1996, the Government would
extend to the private sector, rights and privileges in land and housing development similar to those of
HUDC. Recently, the Government's Council of Ministers has approved the regulatory reforms and
announced them in the media. In addition, assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1998, the
Government would submit to Parliament, legislation designed to make zoning for land use more responsive
to market needs and to improve the formulation and implementation of housing policy. For this purpose,
HUDC would initiate in 1996 and complete by July 31, 1998, a comprehensive study of land use and urban
planning management regulations, for which it would carry out extensive prior consultations at national and
local levels.
2.16   The centerpiece of the institutional reform measures would be a fundamental change in HUDC's
role and mandate from that of public sector producer of serviced land to that of policy formulator,
facilitator and promoter of private sector development of land and housing for low and moderate income
households. Recently, HUDC has announced its new role and mandate in the media and has begun to solicit
private sector interest in potential land and housing development schemes.  In addition, HIJDC, in
consultation with local land use planning and zoning authorities, has selected about 200 hectares of sites for
private sector development of lower income housing that are well-located to employment opportunities and
existing infrastructure, to help facilitate a quick start-up of private sector development operations. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that HUDC would establish by September 30, 1996, and thereafter
maintain an organizational unit dedicated to facilittting private sector dev4'opment of land and housing for
lower income households. In addition, HUDC intends to strengthen its accounting and financial systems to
help facilitate effective management planning and decision-making under the reform program. Assurances
were obtained that HUDC would, by July 31, 1998, enhance its cost allocation systems for each of its lines
of business and also establish budgeting and financial management systems to ensure full coverage of its
assets and liabilities.
2.17   To carry out its new role, HUDC would adopt a number of alternative approaches. One approach
would be to auction off to the private sector the rights to develop HUDC-owned land in accordance with
specified development criteria, such as the mix of plot sizes and price ceilings for housing units. Another
approach would be to solicit partnerships with private developers of private land, whereby HUDC offers its
expertise to facilitate design, implementation and approval processes.
2.18   Beginning in 1996, the performance of the institutional reform measures would be assessed mainly
on how well IJUDC attracts and facilitates private sector development in accordance with targets for
HUDC-facilitated land and housing development schemes carried out by wholly private sector-owned
developers (Annex 5). The targets for land developed under HUDC-sponsored private sector schemes,
relative to the total land developed under HUDC programs (including sponsored private schemes), would
comprise the following: in 1996, the greater of 20 percent of the total or 220 housing plots; in 1997, the
greater of 33 percent of the total or 400 housing plots; in 1998, the greater of 55 percent or 850 plots. The
corresponding figures for 1999 are 68 percent and 1100 plots, and for 2000 are 75 percent and 1250 plots.
To the extent that the minimums are not achieved in any one year, they would be rolled over and added to
the following year's targets. HUDC's own land development activities would be expected to decline over
time. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) HUDC would take all measures necessary to



8                                                 Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
achieve the above targets including, if necessary, the reallocation to private sector development through
auction or other transparent method, the development rights on HUDC sites; and (b) it would no longer
purchase or acquire, for development purposes, additional land exceeding an aggregate of 50 hectares,
except as approved by the Minister of Public Works and Housing.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.19   Bank participation in the proposed project would be consistent with two pillars of the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy, discussed by the Board on October 24, 1995. First, it would foster private
sector-led growth through the consistent application of policy and institutional reforms and market-based
interventions. Second, it would help to relieve critical infrastructure and public management constraints by
improving market efficiency and mobilizing the private sector to play a larger role in sectors traditionally
financed and managed by the public sector. Recent Bank sector work and lending operations have been
heavily oriented towards private sector development (PSD) and the financial sector. 
2.20   In this particular project, the rationale and motivation for Bank participation is three-fold. First, the
Bank is among the best able of donors to bring international "best practice" experience to bear on the design
and implementation of a market-based housing finance system. Second, Bank support for the SMF is
expected to provide a strong confidence-building signal to the financial market, and enhance the willingness
of market participants to invest in the SMF and in its bond issuances without explicit government
guarantees. Third, the Bank's recent PSD sector work and operational experience in Jordan, when combined
with its substantial experience in the Jordanian urban sector, should enable the Bank to play a major role in
assisting the Government and HUDC to implement reformns to promote private sector development in the
low and moderate income housing market.
C. Project Sustainability
2.21   Recent PSD sector work has identified the need for major structural change to promote sustainable
growth, including measures to reform the financial system, promote the private sector, and reduce the size
of the public sector.  This project would pioneer such structural changes in the housing sector.
Sustainability would be promoted by improving important instruments normally found in the enabling
environment of an efficient long-term housing strategy. On the demand side, it would improve efficiency in
the housing finance market and help to enhance the affordability of mortgages through the establishment of
the SMF. On the supply side, it would shift greater responsibility to the private sector for housing
development in the lower income markets through regulatory reforms and the reorientation of HUDC's role
in the sector.
D. Project Objective Categories and Environmental Impact
2.22   The project objective is classified mainly under the category "Private Sector Development". The
project is rated under Environmental Category "C". Since the project would promote increased efficiency in
the housing finance system, environmental problems derived from sub-standard housing conditions should
8 / A recently completed Private Sector Assessment (Report No. 14405-JO) has identified constraints to private sector
development. A forthcoming report on Intergovernmental Fiscal Relations and Municipal Finance Management is
expected to deepen the Bank's dialogue with the Government on housing sector-related, urban finance issues. An
Energy Sector Adjustment Loan (ESAL) (Ln. 3651-JO) is restructuring and incorporating energy sector
institutions under the Companies Law and creating the enabling environment to attract greater private sector
participation in the sector. Government monopolies in the agriculture sector are being eliminated under an on-
going Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) (Ln. 3817-JO). The on-going ERDL (Ln. 3947-JO) is
supporting reforms to liberalize trade and enhance competitive pressures in the domestic market. The ERDL has
been complemented by an Export Development Project (Ln. 3993-JO), approved on March 28, 1996, to help
strengthen Jordan's export competitiveness and increase export revenues.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                                     9
be reduced. The proposed project would have a beneficial impact on the environment through its
contribution to orderly regulated land development by private sector developers. New housing construction
facilitated by the project would be in established population centers which the beneficiaries themselves
would select, so displacement and relocation of residents would not be an issue. The building regulations
and codes governing urban development and land use planning, which cover the construction of housing
units, are adequate to ensure against environmental degradation.  Titles would be awarded to final
beneficiaries upon sale of the units, and construction standards are adequate to satisfy the building
regulations.
3.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
3.1    The total project cost is estimated at about US$142.0 million equivalent, including an indirect
foreign exchange component of about US$19.8 million, or about 14 percent of total costs (Annex 6). The
cost estimates include an SMF refinancing program aggregating about US$141.0 million equivalent over a
project implementation period of five years. The project cost estimate is provided in Table I.
Table 1. Project Cost Estimate
Foreign as  % of
Percentage  Total
Project Components         Local  Foreign   Total Local  Foreign   Total      of     Base
ID million            US$ million         Total    Costs
1. Secondary Morteage Facility
1.1 SMF Refinancing Programn       86.5    13.5    100.0  122.0   19.0    141.0    13.5      99.4
1.2 Equipment for the SMF           0.0    0.1      0.1   0.0      0.1      0.1    70.0       0.1
1.3 Technical Assistance to the SMF  -OJ    _Q2      0.3  _O 1      .       0.4   27.         01
Subtotal SMF Component       86.6    13.8    100.4  122.1    19.4    141.5    13.7      99.8
2. Institutional & Regulatory Reforms
Technical Assistance to HUDC        0.1     0.2     0.3   0.1      0.3      0.4    70.0       0.2
Total Base Costs                    86.7    14.0    100.7  122.2   19.7    141.9    13.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies               0.0    0.0       0.0   0.0     0.0       0.0    70.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                  0.0    0.1       0.1   0.0     0.1       0.1    70.0      0.1
Total Project Cost                  86.7    14.1    100.8  122.2   19.8    142.0    13.9    100.1
3.2    The Government would onlend to the SMF about US$19.6 million from  the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million (Loan) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement having terms and
conditions approved by the Bank. About US$19.0 million of the subsidiary loan would be provided to the
SMF as a line of credit to refinance the estimated foreign exchange component of mortgages originated by
PFIs for the construction of new housing or for new renovations of existing housing. The mortgages
refinanced by the subsidiary loan are estimated to comprise at least one fifth of the total value of mortgages
refinanced by the SMF during the project implementation period. Private sector investors are expected to
contribute to the SMF refinancing program through the purchase of SMF bonds (about US$122.0 million
equivalent). About US$600,000 of the subsidiary loan would help to finance equipment and technical
assistance for the SMF (including contingencies). In addition, the Loan would include about US$400,000
equivalent to help finance consulting services and technical assistance for HUDC. Retroactive financing
totaling US$200,000 equivalent is proposed for expenditures made after August 1, 1995 in respect of
technical assistance and equipment for the SMF and HUDC. The project financing plan is presented in
Table 2. Overall, the Loan would finance about 14 percent of the estimated project cost.



10                                               Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
Table 2. Project Financing Plan
Financing Sources                  Local      Foreign      Total      % of
US$ million               Total
Secondary Mortgage Facility                        0.02         -          0.02
Housing & Urban Development Corporation            0.01         -0.01                  -
Private Sector (Bond Investors)                   122.0         -         122.0       86
IBRD                                                 219                  I20         JA
Total                         122.2        19.8       142.0       100
3.3    The proceeds of the subsidiary loan to the SMF would be pooled with other funds raised by the SMF
through the sale of bonds, and then relent to PFIs in the primary market to refinance mortgages for both
existing and new housing. The proceeds of the subsidiary loan, however, would be earmarked for the
refinancing of mortgages for new housing or for new renovations of existing housing made not earlier than
one year prior to the date of the Loan Agreement. To be eligible for refinancing, the ratio of the mortgage to
the appraised value of the property secured could not exceed 80 percent. This ceiling would also serve to
preclude the subsidiary loan from financing land. Each mortgage beneficiary would undertake to occupy or
rent the mortgaged housing primarily for residential use.
3.4    The subsidiary loan would be denominated in Jordanian Dinars at a market rate of interest. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the subsidiary loan in return for the spread between
the IBRD rate and domestic market rates.  During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
methodology for determining the market rate in effect from time to time would be agreed between the
Government and the Bank. The interest rate would be variable over the full term of the loan and the timing
for resetting the rate would be determined at the option of the SMF at the time of drawdown.9 At each
resetting, the new rate would be equivalent to that obtained by the SMF on SMF bonds of comparable
duration within the preceding three months, or, in the absence of such a rate, the rate on a ten-year
government security plus a premium reflecting the historical market premiums of SMF bonds over treasury
securities.10 The amortization schedule of the subsidiary loan would be similar to that for the Bank loan
(viz., 20 years including a grace period of 5 years). Debt service on the subsidiary loan would be
subordinated by the SMF to payments on its outstanding bonds (para. 2.7).
3.5    The SMF would enter into Participation Agreements with PFIs under terms and conditions approved
by the Bank. SMF lending terms to PFIs would be market-determined and, in the aggregate, would be made
in a manner that minimizes interest rate risk for the SMF. SMF loans to PFIs would, at the option of the
SMF, be for 3, 5, 7, or 10 year maturities, or other maturities as may be agreed between the Bank and the
SMF. SMF loans to PFIs would be repaid in full at maturity, without repayment of any principal before
maturity. Each SMF loan would be collateralized by PFI mortgages which are equivalent to at least 120
percent of the principal amount of the loan being extended by the SMF, and which have remaining terms of
at least 140 percent of the term of the SMF loan. PFIs would be required to pledge additional mortgages at
the end of each calendar quarter as may be necessary to maintain the level of collateral at 120 percent. The
maximum allowable level of arrears on pledged mortgage loans would be three months. The criteria for the
pledging of mortgage collateral is summarized in Annex 3. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the above mentioned SMF and PFI lending arrangements would be implemented. A special condition
9 /  For example, the rate could approximate 3, 5, 7, or 10-year fixed, market-determined interest rates, or be linked or
indexed to rates on a short-term financial instrument.
0 / A ten-year government security has been used as a reference because there are currently no medium-term
government securities traded in the market.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                           11
of effectiveness would be the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the
SMF.
4.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Implementation Arrangements
4.1    The Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Public Works
and Housing and comprising the Ministers of Planning; Finance; Industry and Trade; Municipalities, Rural
Affairs and the Environment; Agriculture; Administrative Development; the Governor of CBJ; and the
Director General of HUDC, would oversee implementation of the reform program and the Housing Finance
and Urban Sector Reform Project. HUDC would be responsible for implementing the institutional and
regulatory reform component of the Project. The SMF's Board of Directors and management would be
responsible for implementing the SMF component, but the CBJ would monitor this component during the
project period. Both HUDC and the CBJ have established Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for their
respective project components (para. 2.16). The two PIUs would monitor compliance with Bank guidelines,
procurement, schedules, loan covenants, performance indicators, expected costs at completion, and project
accounts (including commitments and disbursements), report on project implementation progress, keep track of
historical changes, and participate in Bank supervision missions.
4.2    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the project would be carried out in accordance
with a detailed Project Implementation Plan (Annex 5) that includes target dates of actions to be taken and
monitorable indicators. The achievement of the development objectives of the SMF component could be
indicated by several events, such as the successful launch of SMF bonds without a government guarantee,
the volume of SMF refinancings, the occurrence of market trading in SMF bonds, and perceptions of an
emerging yield curve in the financial market spanning a period of about ten years. Important direct
indicators would include a lengthening of lending maturities and reductions in the gross operating spreads of
lenders. Progress towards achieving the development objectives would be assessed annually by regularly
surveying lenders as to their costs of funds, their rates and other terms for mortgage lending, the amounts of
such lending and also their narrative perspectives on such lending, by evaluating SMF activity, and by
monitoring activity in the market for debt securities. The survey of lenders would be designed under the
auspices of the project and conducted by the SMF. For the institutional and regulatory reform component, the
achievement of development objectives would be assessed primarily by monitoring how well HUDC attracts
and facilitates private sector development of land and housing for lower income households, relative to
agreed targets (para. 2.18).
B. Bank Supervision
4.3    Bank supervision is expected to require two missions annually during the five-year implementation
period of the project, including a Project Launch mission and a Mid-Term Review mission, both of which
would be heavily staffed. In total, supervision would require an estimated II missions and about 60
staffweeks (Annex 5). The Project Launch mission would hold a seminar with the PIUs, the SMF, and
concerned public and private sector institutions. Seminar participants would discuss the Implementation
Plan, including key dates and monitoring indicators; the responsibilities of the implementation teams;
procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing arrangements; and reporting requirements. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a Mid-Term Review would be convened by about July 1, 1998,
for which 1IUDC, CBJ and the SMF would prepare a detailed mid-term report by about June 1, 1998. The
Review would assess: (a) progress to date; (b) performance against monitorable indicators; (c) the
sustainability of the SMF and the effectiveness of HUDC's new role and mandate; and (d) the willingness of
private sector developers and banks to construct and finance lower income housing and also the willingness



12                                              Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
of municipalities to rezone land to allow smaller plot sizes. If necessary, adjustments to project components
and procedures would be made to improve project implementation.
C. Procurement
4.4    Goods and works financed by the Bank loan would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). Contracts for equipment and
materials for the SMF are not expected to exceed US$200,000 each and would be procured through
international shopping procedures based on the comparison of three price quotations from at least two
countries. The total aggregate value of such contracts would not exceed US$300,000 equivalent. All
equipment contracts valued above US$100,000 would be subject to prior Bank review. Under the subsidiary
loan to the SMF, procurement would be undertaken by the final beneficiary households and enterprises in
accordance with established local private sector and commercial practices, which are acceptable to the
Bank. Consulting services, technical assistance and training financed by the proposed Bank loan would be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). For these assignments, there would be prior Bank review
of contracts with consulting firms valued at or above US$100,000, and also of contracts with individual
consultants valued at or above US$50,000. During negotiations, assurances were obtained regarding these
procurement arrangements.
D. Disbursement
4.5    The project would be implemented over a five-year period from the estimated date of loan
effectiveness, with a target completion date of September 30, 2001. The loan Closing Date would be March
31, 2002, six months after the project completion date. The projected disbursement period of about 5 years
or 20 quarters is shorter than the country disbursement profile of 6.5 years or 26 quarters. This is deemed
achievable because: (a) there are no major civil works or equipment contracts; (b) the institutional reforms
should be completed within the first 2.5 years of the project; and (c) the subsidiary loan is small relative to
anticipated demand. The estimated schedule of disbursements for the Bank loan by semesters is provided in
Annex 7.
4.6    The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table 3.
Disbursements under the subsidiary loan would be made against documentation submitted by PFIs
evidencing that the mortgages being refinanced are for new housing or for new renovations of existing
housing. For this purpose, PFIs would be required to separate out and certify to the SMF, those mortgages
for new housing or newly renovated housing that are included in the packages of mortgages that they submit
to the SMF for refinancing. Disbursement percentages for SMF mortgage refinancing would vary during
the implementation period, beginning with 95 percent of mortgages refinanced until US$4 million has been
disbursed, declining to 75 percent until an additional amount of US$6 million has been disbursed, and to 60
percent thereafter. The disbursement rate profile has been designed to help promote an efficient start-up of
SMF operations, and also to quickly inject in the SMF the proposed tier of quasi-capital (para. 2.7).
4.7    For the other components, disbursements by HUDC and the SMF for contracts valued at or above
US$100,000 for equipment, US$100,000 for consulting firm contracts, and US$50,000 for individual
contracts would be made on the basis of full documentation. For contracts valued below these thresholds,
disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE). HUDC and the SMF would retain
the supporting documents for disbursements under SOE and would make these available to Bank
supervision missions.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                                     13
Table 3. Disbursements Against Project Components
Amount of                       Percent of
Loan                        Expenditures
Category                            Allocated                    to be Financed
USS
1. SMF Mortgage Refinancing              19,000,000  Disbursement percentages  would  vary  during  the
Program                                          implementation period, beginning with 95 percent of
mortgages refinanced until USS4 million has been
disbursed; declining to 75 percent until an additional amount
of USS6 million has been disbursed; and to 60 percent
thereafter
2. Equipment for the SMF                    100,000  100% percent of foreign expenditures, and 100 percent of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 90 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally
3. Technical Assistance to the SMF          400,000  100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 95 percent of local
______________________________________________  _______________   expenditures
4. Technical Assistance to HUDC             400,000  100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 95 percent of local
expenditures
5. Unallocated                              100,000
Total1:                                20,000,000
4.8    Special Accounts.  Operational procedures of the SMF may require that its loans to PFIs be
originated concurrently with an auction of bonds to investors. The Government would therefore open and
maintain for the SMF, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account for the SMF
components financed by the subsidiary loan. The Special Account would have an authorized allocation of
US$2.0 million. Applications for direct payment or for Special Commitment in respect of the SMF
components of the project would have a minimum value of 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the
Special Account. The Government would also open and maintain a Special Account for the HUDC
component, with an authorized allocation of US$50,000. The two Special Accounts would be replenished
on a monthly basis or when the balance of each account is equal to 50 percent of the authorized allocations,
whichever comes first. The withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate documentation,
including a copy of the monthly bank statements and their reconciliation with the Special Account
transactions.
E. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
4.9    During negotiationis, assurances were obtained that: (a) HUDC would establish and maintain project
accounts, and the SMF would establish and maintain financial accounts and statements, in formats
acceptable to the Bank; (b) both HUDC and the SMF would have their accounts audited each fiscal year in
accordance with Bank guidelines and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (c) the audited
accounts would be furnished to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in such scope and
detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including separate opinions by the auditors on disbursements
made under the Special Accounts; and (d) in respect of the SMF, the Bank would be furnished with the
auditor's nar;agement letter or other reports which the auditors may provide to SMF management.
4.10    HUDC and the SMF wouid also furnish the Bank with detailed quarterly reports summarizing their
operations and the utilization of Project funds. The reports would follow a standardized format that would
be finalized during the Project Launch seminar. They would cover implementation status; deviations, if
any, from the Implementation Plan; problems and constraints, and the corrective actions being taken;
updated disbursement and commitment tables; and, in the case of the SMF, updated information on the
volume and terns and conditions of lending in the market. HUDC, the CBJ and the SMF would also
prepare a detailed mid-term report to serve as the basis for the Mid-Term Review (para. 4.3). In addition,



14                                             Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
HUDC, the CBJ and the SMF would submit an Implementation Completion Report to the Bank within six
months of the Closing Date of the Bank loan.
5.   BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1    Principal project benefits, which may take several years beyond the project implementation period
to achieve, include: (a) better housing conditions, resulting indirectly from greater availability of medium-
and longer-term mortgage financing and from private housing development; (b) the financial deepening of
the banking system and bond market; (c) improved resource efficiency in meeting the needs of the low and
moderate income housing market; and (d) a reduced claim on the government budget by the housing sector.
Principal beneficiaries would include: (a) low and moderate income households, who should benefit from
the lower costs of home ownership resulting from increased efficiency in the real estate market; (b) most
borrowers for housing, who should gain from improved access to mortgage finance and lengthened
mortgage maturities; (c) banks and investors, who should be able to utilize the SMF to improve their
portfolio management; and (d) the Government, which should be able to reduce budgetary expenditures and
transfer much of the risks associated with housing development to the private sector.
B. Economic Analysis
5.2    Economic benefits have only been quantified for the SMF component for which an estimation is
given in Annex 8. The commercial viability of the SMF, as indicated in the financial analysis (para. 2.1 1),
does not by itself assure that the SMF would generate net economic and social benefits. However, an
indicative assessment of such benefits can be derived by estimating the value to banks and households of
having access to this form of financial intermediation, which should be reflected over time in the terms and
conditions under which banks would be willing to offer housing loans.
5.3    At a minimum, economic benefits are expected to accrue from: (a) for lenders, a reduction in the
liquidity risk associated with longer-term housing loans, thereby enabling a reduction in the price and non-
price barriers to longer-term borrowing; (b) for mortgagors (households), a combination of lower costs of
funds and a longer term on the mortgages being offered, as well as greater interest among banks in pursuing
more lending for housing; and (c) improved financial information in the capital market on term structures
and risks that should reduce the cost of issuing medium- and long-term corporate debt in Jordan. After
taking into account the estimated costs of SMF operations and of the capital committed to the SMF, the
economic rate of return (ERR) is expected to fall within the range of 15 to 20 percent. However, the ERR is
sensitive to both the size and timing of costs and benefits and, at one lower bound estimation of costs and
benefits, the ERR could fall to about 10 percent, while at a higher bound estimation it could exceed 20
percent.
5.4    Other benefits of the SMF, which have not been quantified, are also likely to accrue. The SMF
could induce greater public awareness of the importance of analyzing credit risks in the absence of
government guarantees, and also possibly help the Government reduce the housing finance subsidies to low
and moderate income households which it has been channeling through a special window at the Housing
Bank.
5.5   Implicit in this analysis is the counterfactual assumption that the housing finance market in Jordan
would remain unchanged in the absence of the SMF. To the extent that other adjustments could take place
without the SMF, its benefits are overstated. However, it is difficult to discern signs that the basic nature of
the mortgage and bond markets would change anytime soon in the absence of this project. Banks have
reiterated their concern about the illiquidity of mortgage lending, the real level of government domestic debt
outstanding is shrinking, and bank syndications have almost completely replaced corporate bond issuances.



Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project                                          15
It is considered unlikely that a private sector entity would undertake to provide SMF services independently,
both because the external benefits cannot be captured entirely by a totally private sector entity, and also
because the major banks in Jordan could reasonably view such an entity as undermining their competitive
positions within the financial sector and therefore oppose it.
C. Project Risks
5.6    The most significant project risks relate to the SMF, which is an entirely new venture in Jordan
involving considerable risk overall. First, there is a risk that loan demand from PFIs may not materialize as
early as forecast, or in the volume estimated. Market behavior is difficult to predict in Jordan; the demand
for SMF funds would depend on many factors, such as the willingness of consumers to pay market rates for
term finance, the willingness of banks to pay a premium over the cost of deposits to defray risks of
illiquidity from mismatching maturities, the linkages between credit demand and private sector development
of land and housing, and operating costs of the SMF. Second, there is a risk that SMF bond operations to
raise funds to meet loan demand may develop more slowly than anticipated, either because it may take
longer than anticipated for the SMF to become proficient in bond operations, or because the financial market
may take longer than anticipated to accept bonds that are marketed without a government guarantee. The
SMF may not be viable without a guarantee of the initial SMF bonds, subject to a sunset provision. This
risk would be mitigated partly by the amount of initial capitalization of the SMF, by the ownership
participation of the CBJ, and by the subordination by the SMF of debt service on the subsidiary loan relative
to payments on SMF bonds. Third, there is a risk that adverse changes in the macroeconomic framework
could hinder SMF operations and the achievement of its objectives. The Government, however, remains
committed to and on track with its macroeconomic adjustment program. Should any of these risks unfold,
the disbursement of the proposed Bank loan could be adversely affected. Nevertheless, proceeding with the
SMF remains justified because the risks are considered acceptable when viewed in relation to the expected
benefits and the probability that the SMF would ultimately lead to greater financial market efficiency, and in
relation to the amount of resources being placed at risk.
5.7    Under the institutional and regulatory reform component, there is a risk that internal opposition
could weaken the Government's resolve to implement the reforms, since they would reduce the public
sector's role and privileges in land development. Recent actions taken by the Government and HUDC
should mitigate this risk (paras. 2.15 and 2.16).
5.8    After taking into account the nature of the above-mentioned risks and the actions that would be
taken to mitigate them, there remains a risk that unanticipated future events could adversely affect the pace
of project implementation and the achievement of the project's development objectives. When viewed in the
context of the project's expected benefits, this risk is considered acceptable.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    During negotiations, the following assurances specific to the SMF component were obtained:
(a)   the SMF would have the following features: (i) the SMF's charter would not be amended
without the prior agreement of the Bank (para. 2.5); (ii) debt service on the subsidiary loan
would be subordinated by the SMF to payments on SMF bonds (para. 2.7); (iii) the SMF
would be exempted from limits imposed by the Companies Law on the issuance of
corporate debt (para. 2.8); (iv) by December 31, 1996, the Government would formulate and
implement mechanisms to facilitate and streamline the registration and transfer of liens by
the SMF (para. 2.8); (v) interest derived from SMF bonds would be exempt from taxation
(para. 2.9); (vi) SMF bonds would be eligible to serve as liquidity reserve holdings of banks



16                                               Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project
(para. 2.9); and (vii) SMF loans to financial institutions would be treated as interbank
lending for regulatory purposes (para. 2.9);
(b)   the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the SMF, and the
Participation Agreements between the SMF and PFIs, would have terms and conditions
approved by the Bank, covering: (i) eligibility criteria for PFls (para. 2.6); (ii) criteria for
the pledging of mortgage collateral (para. 3.5); and (iii) onlending arrangements by the SMF
and relending arrangements by the PFIs (paras. 3.2 to 3.5); and
(c)    the market rate in effect from time to time would be determined in accordance with an
agreed methodology (para. 3.4).
6.2    The following assurances specific to the institutional and regulatory reform component were
obtained:
(a)   the Government would: (i) by December 31, 1996, extend to the private sector, the rights
and privileges in land and housing development similar to those of HUDC (para. 2.15); and
(ii) by December 31, 1998, formulate and submit to Parliament, legislation designed to
make zoning for land use more responsive to market needs and to improve the formulation
and implementation of housing policy (para. 2.15);
(b)    HUDC would: (i) by July 31, 1998, complete a comprehensive study of land use and urban
planning management regulations (para. 2.15); (ii) by September 30, 1996, establish and
maintain an organizational unit dedicated to private sector development (para. 2.16); (iii) by
July 31, 1998, enhance its cost allocation systems for each of its lines of business (para.
2.16); (iv) take all measures necessary to achieve specified targets for land developed under
HUDC-sponsored private sector schemes (para. 2.18); (v) no longer purchase or acquire
additional land for development purposes exceeding 50 hectares, except as approved by the
Minister of Public Works and Housing (para. 2.18);
6.3    The following assurances were also obtained:
(a)   the project would be carried out in accordance with a detailed Implementation Plan,
including target dates of actions to be taken and monitorable indicators (para. 4.2);
(b)    a Mid-Term Review would be convened on about July 1, 1998 to assess progress and
introduce any measures required to improve project implementation (para. 4.3); and
(c)    HUDC and the SMF would: (i) establish and maintain accounts in a format acceptable to the
Bank; (ii) have their accounts audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines
and by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) furnish the accounts to the Bank
within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in such scope and detail as the Bank may
reasonably request; and (iv) in respect of the SMF, also furnish the auditor's management
letter or other reports provided by the auditor (para. 4.9).
6.4    A special condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and the SMF (para. 3.5).
6.5    Subject to the agreements and conditions given above, the proposed project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in the amount of US$20.0 million at the Bank's
standard LIBOR-based interest rate for US dollar-denominated single currency loans, with a maturity of 20
years, including a grace period of five years.



Annex 1
Page I of 8
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Housing Finance and the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Overview of the Housing Finance System
1.     Most of the Jordanian population is relatively well-housed. The housing sector has not depended
heavily on forrnal-sector housing finance to accomplish this achievement. It appears that such financing
amounts to less than 10 percent of GDP, in contrast to a figure of 90 percent in the United States and 25
percent in Malaysia, a developing country with higher incomes and a more advanced financial sector. In the
aggregate, there is a clear reliance on financing through cash and intra-family financing, especially from
remittances. However, the opportunities for expatriate remittances has declined, signalling what will
probably be a shift towards greater reliance on formal credit for housing.
2.     Most lending for housing and other real estate is currently intermediated through the commercial
banking system.' There do not appear to be any accurate public data on the stock or the flow of loans for
housing, but it is possible to estimate formal sector lending for housing. At the end of 1994, the Housing
Bank (HB) held about JD90 million in loans lent out of its own funds to households for the purchase or
improvement of an owner-occupied home. This lending constituted only 17 percent of the HB's loan
portfolio. The Jordan Islamic Bank apparently has another JD60 million outstanding. Other banks have not
released figures on their long-term mortgage lending, but indicative estimates suggest that, in the aggregate,
the total would not exceed JD200 million for all of the banks (about 6 percent of bank credit), plus up to
JD200 million in directed credits made at concessional terms funded through other channels.2 This implies
a maximum of about JD400 million in housing loans, or almost 10 percent of GDP.
3.     Such small exposure to long-term housing lending presumably is due either to conscious risk
management on the part of the banks or a lack of interest on the part of households in using bank credit for
housing. Most banks express the view that both factors are at play, particularly since the net cost to a
mortgage borrower is currently about 13.5 percent for a loan for 7 years, in an economy with inflation under
5 percent since 1991. Moreover, the spread between the borrowing rate and the deposit rate is usually 5
percent or more, suggesting that greater equity investment in housing is preferable to accumulating wealth
in financial instruments.3
/ The great majority of bank lending for housing is done by the Housing Bank and the Jordan Islamic Bank. A
significant additional amount comes directly from government entities, in particular the military, which probably
has the largest portfolio of long-term housing loans outstanding. However, there are few public data on the
military housing scheme. Beyond the banks and the military, some lending appears to be undertaken directly by
private pension plans at a low rate for the benefit of plan participants and by the Social Security Corporation
(SSC) for the benefit of certain groups, such as university professors.
/ This includes about JD65 million held by the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDC), perhaps
another JDI00 million outstanding in loans to military personnel, and JD25 million lent by the SSC.
3/ A minor caveat to this view is the fact that earnings on deposits are tax exempt to individuals, while the payment
of interest for housing is tax deductible. At the top income tax rate of 30 percent, the after-tax cost of borrowing
is only 9.45 percent, but the deduction is limited to JD2,000 per year.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 8
4.     For all banks, except the HB, there is the additional consideration that the HB has a number of
special privileges. These privileges appear to permit the HB to offer below-market terms on their housing
loans and give it a competitive ed,,e in mortgage origination that discourages active marketing by other
banks. For example, the HB offers limited amounts (only 5 percent of its portfolio) of deeply subsidized
loans (at a 7 percent interest rate) for 15 years to households with relatively moderate incomes (up to
JD4,500 per year) buying relatively (for Jordan) small houses (under 200 square meters) with small loans
(less than JD 10,000). The HB receives no external funding for these subsidies, but benefits from its low
statutory reserve and also from lower taxes. It appears that these two indirect subsidies alone would exceed
the loss on those loans. Moreover, the "unsubsidized" rate on loans at the HB appears to be less than at any
other bank. For example, the IB currently quotes an interest rate of 12 percent, while other banks are
quoting rates of 13.5 percent or higher. It is not possible to establish actual rate differentials, given the
widespread practice of offering discounts from quoted rates, but the RB does perceive its rate as below the
rest of the market. The HB charges the market rate on larger loans or loans used for commercial real estate
development.
5.     The HB also appears to be the only bank that extends mortgage loans to the general public for terms
of up to 15 years (it has extended loans up to 30 years when funded by special Government programs). It
does this only for the special low-rate loans for lower-income households, with instead a term of up to 12
years for loans to higher income households. No other bank will exceed 7 to 8 years for any loan. All of
these aspects of the HB are in flux, due to the efforts of the Government to develop a more level playing
field in the commercial banking sector (see below). The final outcome is still unclear, but there is a
possibility that the I-B would retain a tax-exemption on housing loans that would continue to not only fund
its current low-rate lending, but also encourage below-market rates on other forms of tax-exempt housing
lending.
6.     The Risks of Housing Finance. The credit risk associated with residential lending appears to be
reasonably low. The maximum loan is for 75 percent of the appraised value of the land and structure. The
appraisal is not based on the general prices in the market, but rather on an estimate of what the distress-sale
price might be. The legal basis for foreclosure on defaulted loans is relatively strong. Apparently because
of concern for appearances, foreclosure has been rarely begun (only after 18 months of delinquency) nor
pursued to its conclusion and most defaulted loans are rescheduled or otherwise compromised. Liquidity
risk is much more significant. Among banks other than the HB, there appears to be concern that external
political, economic, and demographic shocks could affect Jordan. Thus, many observers consider term mis-
matching as the most significant risk for lending for housing, thereby creating price and non-price
restrictions on access to housing credit. In contrast, due to its special treatment, the HB need not have the
same level of concern as other banks about risks to its survival and profitability. In this way, the
Government has solved some of the liquidity concerns about mortgage lending. However, it has given these
capabilities to a single bank, thereby precluding market-expanding fair competition.
7.    Interest rate risk is also associated with housing loans in Jordan. All loans have rates that are legally
subject to change if a bank's cost of funds goes up, but this flexibility has never been tested and could be
limited by both legal and political considerations. As it is, lender currently absorb small swings in the cost
of funds to avoid provoking controversy by changing rates. The net effect, however, is to create more
justification for banks to limit their exposure to housing loans.
8.     Leveling the Playing Field. The Government has articulated a medium-term strategy for reform of
the financial sector under the Economic Reform and Development Loan (ERDL) (Ln. 3947-JO), approved
on October 24, 1995. One of the key areas for action is with respect to the early removal of the special
privileges available to the HB. The specific privileges to be removed include the unconditional guarantee of



Annex I
Page 3 of 8
HB liabilities, certain tax exemptions, certain fee exemptions, and certain advantages in foreclosure
situations. The HB would retain the tax exemption of income earned from housing loans (not just
"subsidized" loans) and its lower statutory reserve rate, but only for a "limited" period. As these reforms
take effect, the HB should find that it too has to be more concemed with liquidity risk, as well as face a
higher cost of raising deposits. In principle, the HB would lose its cost advantage in offering long-term
housing loans and has stated it might pull back to the same 7-8 year norm as other banks, as well as refrain
from offering below-market rates to moderate income households.
Developing the Financial Market
9.     Recent Bank sector and operational work indicates that Jordan is in need of improvements in its
financial market, especially with respect to medium- and longer-term  finance.4  The ERDL includes
provisions for strengthening competition in the banking sector and facilitating bond finance and an Export
Development Project (Ln. 3993-JO), approved on March 28, 1996, includes a refinance window using IBRD
funds. In addition, for at least ten years, there has been discussion in Jordan about the need for a method of
gathering long-term funds for use in housing loans, so that the terms of such loans could be extended.
Clearly, it makes the most sense to view the development of a solution to the term mis-match problem in
housing finance as part of the overall development of mechanisms for intermediating funds on a longer-tenn
b'.sis than typical bank finance. In fact, it has been found in the development of other financial markets that
market activity is very much self-reinforcing. If there is a fair degree of liquidity for security, more
investors and traders should be willing to participate in a market for securities based on housing loans,
further enhancing liquidity, and encouraging liquidity in similar securities.
10.   In most developing countries, govemment securities are already the most liquid form  of debt
instrument and thus the focus of efforts to increase the liquidity of a market. However, in Jordan, the level
of govemment debt to GDP is relatively low (external debt is five times the internal debt) and has not been
increasing. In addition, the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) has only slowly moved towards creating a climate
of market pricing of government debt. The result is that there is almost no real trading in debt securities of
any kind and no information about the market yield curve beyond one year (banks offer deposits out to one-
year, but do not actively seek them).
The Potential Benefits from Secondary Mortgage Funding
I.    Creation of a mechanism  for facilitating intermediation between truly longer-term  financial
investors and housing borrowers would permit the banks to reduce or eliminate the liquidity risks of housing
lending and also the interest rate risk by generating a source of fixed-rate funding. Moreover, if this
intermediation takes the form of homogeneous, nearly riskless securities issued on a large scale, the
securities can serve as the basis of expanding the range and capacities of the money market. Such
mechanisms are generally known as secondary mortgage funding sources. The term "secondary" is intended
to contrast with the "primary" market for mortgages, which consists of financial institutions which make the
loans initially. Under this broader understanding of secondary mortgage funding, there is a wide range of
altemative approaches being practiced around the world. The appropriateness of any system depends on the
circumstances prevailing in the housing and financial markets of the individual country.
12.    An institution that makes loans to primary lenders, using mortgages as collateral and funds raised
from its own bond issuances, is referred to as a secondary mortgage facility (SMF). The bonds of an SMF
can be safer and more liquid than those issued by a single lender because an SMF can independently control
/  Refer to main text of Staff Appraisal Report.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
the quantity of the collateral and can also achieve greater volumes of bond issuances. Several countries
have created such special institutions, usually with sponsorship by the Government. One way of viewing an
SMF is as a separate institution that pools together as collateral the very best mortgages from several banks
or other lending institutions and uses that collateral to offer bonds that are nearly risk-free to long-term
investors. The ownership of the mortgages stays with each lender, and the lender and the investors conclude
their long-term funding arrangement under the auspices and supervision of the SMF.
13.    The presence of a secondary market source of funding for mortgages can, in principle, reduce the
costs and liquidity risks that Jordanian banks face in funding housing loans. It could even permit the
operation of non-bank financial institutions specializing in housing finance (e.g., mortgage companies).
There will be an increase in the access of households to housing if the rates on mortgages are lower, the
terms are longer, or simply the banks market and originate housing credit more aggressively because they
feel more comfortable with their liquidity situation.
The SMF Proposed for Jordan
14.   It appears likely that a simple SMF, under which bonds are collateralized by loans to banks and the
loans are collateralized by mortgages, would be most suitable for Jordan. Figure 1.1 illustrates how the
SMF would operate within the current structure of the Jordanian financial system. Rather than have all of
the funds from the SSC, insurance companies and other long-term investors flow to the banks in the form of
deposits, some of the funds would flow to the SMF in return for bonds issued by the SMF. The SMF would
then make long-term loans to the banks in return for pledges of residential mortgages as collateral. The full
credit risks of the mortgage lending would stay with the banks, but the bank could now finance a part or all
of those loans with longer-term  funds.  This is a relatively simple arrangement.  The basic legal
requirements already exist in Jordan, including legal and institutional infrastructure for the issuance and
trading of long-term bonds and the pledging of mortgages as collateral. It is possible to establish the SMF
under existing laws for financial companies.
15.    The Jordanian SMF would be a financial institution, more like a specialized bank than an entity
such as the Amman Financial Market (AFM) or an ordinary operating company. It would make long-term
loans to banks; the funds in practice can be used by the bank for any purpose. However, the bank would
have to have originated enough qualifying loans for owner-occupied housing to serve as collateral for the
loans from the SMF. In practice, most banks would probably follow the approach of refinancing all or part
of their mortgage lending with the SMF, depending on their overall need for funds, the cost of alternative
sources of funds, and their desire to lengthen the overall term of their liabilities.
/  There are, however, a variety of provisions in the Companies Law that could hinder the proper functioning of the
SMF, and these have been addressed under the proposed project.



Annex 1
Page5of 8
HOUSEHOLDS
Contributions                               Premiums
Deposits
INSURANCE
SSC                         BANKS                               COMPANIES
//      A
Loans
Bond                       I                     Bond
Purchases                 SMF                    Purchases
Mortgage /
Loans\
i   HOUSEHOLDS
Figure 1.1 The SMF and the Jordanian Financial System
16.    The term of the loan from the SMF to the bank (the word "bank" refers here to any qualified lender,
not just commercial banks) would depend on the term of the bonds issued by the SMF to investors, and vice
versa. In the case of the Federal Home Loan Bank in the U.S.A. and the Malaysian SMF, the terms are
usually for 3 or 5 years at a fixed rate. In France, the term is usually 7 or 10 years. These loans would be
"oullet" loans, without repayment of any principal before maturity. Thus, even a 5 year loan could be very
6
useful in financing 7 to 10 year mortgages. The term of the interest rate need not be the same as the term of
the principal, i.e., the maturity of the bond or loan. At one extreme, the rate could be fixed for the full term
of the principal. At the other extreme, the interest rate could be floating, i.e., subject to change every 6
months or so, effectively as it is today for interest rates on the deposits currently used to fund mortgages.
The major difference from the current situation is that a formula has to be set at the time of issuance of the
bonds for how the interest rate would be reset. One simple approach, for example, would be to base the rate
on the current rate on government debt or on the average deposit rate. In this regard, a specific formula has
been formulated for the proposed project.
17.    Ownership of the SMF. The proposed SMF has the potential to be a tool for the Government and
the CBJ to develop the Jordanian financial market. Its debt would withstand close scrutiny as to credit risk,
without recourse to a government guarantee. It would offer investors an ideal intermediate terrn investment
and banks a safe channel to lend excess funds to other banks. With some assistance, the bonds could
6/ Cagamas Berhad, the Malaysian SMF, makes a practice of offering loans to banks that amortize at the same rate as
the mortgages backing up the loans. It still finances these loans through non-amortizing (i.e., bullet) bonds and
keeps an eye on the overall duration of its loans and bonds to keep them in balance.



Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
become much more liquid than previous issues (see below). Lastly, the banks would have an ideal source of
funding for mortgage lending, permitting an expansion in competition in this market.7
18.    For these reasons, it is desirable for the CBJ to take an active role in the establishment of the SMF
and a partial ownership position, at least in the early years, to reassure investors as to the creditworthiness of
the SMF and to assure close cooperation between those in the CBJ responsible for internal debt markets and
the SMF. However, the sums of money involved in the SMF could grow quite large and its policy decisions
could benefit one kind of lender or investor relative to others. Moreover, there is a significant potential for
the GOJ to desire to use the SMF as a conduit for subsidy. For all these reasons, it is desirable for there to
be a majority ownership participation dispersed over all the private participants in the system; i.e., the banks
and the investors.
19.    Initial capitalization of the SMF has been set at JD5 million. This amount should support lending to
banks of up to JD300 million (at a 20 percent capital risk weight for its loans to banks), far more than is
expected to be outstanding after the first 5 years of operation. On the other hand, the amount is less than the
capital of many minor industrial companies and of the JD20 million now required of banks. It may seem to
suggest a weak, poorly capitalized entity. But any higher amount would significantly dilute the return on
equity and thus the commercial success of the SMF.
20.    To solve this problem, the Government's on-lending of proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to the
SMF would be subordinated to other debt issuances of the SMF. This should effectively increase the capital
of the SMF from JD5 million to almost JD20 million without diluting the return to shareholders. This
subordinated debt would amortize along with the IBRD loan after an initial grace period.
21.    Perceptions of a Government Guarantee. There has not been a successful issuance of long-term
bonds in Jordan that was not explicitly guaranteed by the Government. However, many secondary funding
mechanisms operate without explicit government guarantees, with investors recognizing that the collateral
backing their loans is the best available in the economy, short of the power of money creation that resides
only with the government. This is the case of all but one of the four SMFs in the United States and for the
Malaysian and French SMFs. Thus, there are grounds for confidence that the SMF would be able to operate
without a government guarantee.
22.    There would be two major benefits of avoiding such a guarantee.  First, the Government is
attempting to limit its financial burdens in order to improve macroeconomic conditions. Experience in other
countries in other situations indicates that guarantees can gradually erode incentives for cautious behavior
on the part of management and create risk where there was not risk before. Second, Jordan's financial
markets would benefit from the precedent of investors examining the real creditworthiness of an enterprise,
rather than simply relying on a blanket guarantee. But it is not clear whether such an exercise would be
successful currently; it simply may not be possible for bond issuers to expect such an assessment until credit
ratings of private entities become available in Jordan.8
/  The saying in the banking business in Jordan is that they wait for the deposit to come in the door amd then they
look to make a (very short term) loan. The interbank loan market has not worked well, so banks have to both
retain excess liquidity and remain cautious lenders.
8 /  For example, in the U.S.A., investors do not routinely examine creditworthiness, relying instead on simple rating
designations by professional credit rating agencies to assess the credit risks involved. In Europe, there is a
tradition of judging risks without formal credit ratings, but the general debt market is also profoundly different,
since banks provide most corporate finance and build up intimate knowledge of the financial conditions of their
corporate clients.



Annex I
Page 7 of 8
23.    The proposed ownership, management, and capitalization structure of the SMF is considered to be
the best possible compromise arrangement for Jordan. The minority stake of the Government indicates the
government's endorsement of the SMF. Secondly, the control of management by the CBJ should assure
investors that the risk level of the institution would be kept low. Finally, the initial capitalization of the
SMF would be effectively expanded by purchases of long-term subordinated debt by the Government using
disbursements from the proposed Bank loan for the project. The combined amounts of Tier I and Tier 11
capital would provide a very large buffer against default over the first five or more years of operation of the
SMF. Gradually, the capital ratio should decline as loans outstanding grow, and as all parties acquire
greater understanding of the nature of the SMF's risk exposure.
24.    Taxation and Regulation. As is often the case in financial markets, taxation and regulation are key
determinants as to what intermediation structures are attractive and which are not. Secondary market
arrangements are such hybrids that they often require special determinations as to their taxation and
regulation. These institutions tend to play a larger role in the overall market when they receive relatively
favorable treatment, one that reflects the public benefits from their successful operation. The taxation
treatment is to be relatively straightforward. The net income of the SMF would be taxed according to the
same treatment accorded to regular banks (35 percent of net profit). In addition, the bonds issued by the
SMF would receive the same tax treatment as bank deposits; i.e., exemption on interest to individuals.
25.    The proper position of banking regulators with respect to the SMF and its activities are more
difficult to establish. For example, the riskiness of its loans to the banks is greater than loans to the
government, but less than the risks of unsecured interbank lending.9 There is some basis for granting a 10
percent risk weight to the SMF on its loans to the banks (instead of the normal 20 percent for interbank
loans), but that is not being sought. The bonds of the SMF have even a lower degree of risk because they
are further backed by the capital of the SMF. This suggests that the risk weight for holdings of such bonds
by banks could be as low as 10 percent, as it is in Malaysia and the U.S.A.
26.    The CBJ has recently decided that interbank loans are exempt from  the statutory reserve
requirement of 14 percent (in cash held at the CBJ) and the current liquidity reserves of 16 percent (invested
in CBJ debt). Since the loans from the SMF to the banks would be treated as interbank loans, these
exemptions would apply to the SMF. However, there is the question of the reserves required to be kept by
the SMF on funds it raises through bond issuances. The CBJ has determined that there is no need for the
cash statutory reserve in this case. A similar determination has been made with respect to the overall
liquidity reserve of 30 percent, since there is no uncertainty about calls on the borrowed funds and the term
is relatively long.
27.    These determinations would mean that the banks should find the SMF intermediation process
attractive. This is consistent with the point of view of regulators seeking to encourage the management of
liquidity and interest rate risks, and thus providing advantages to this form of liability. The other area of
potential improvement in the overall financial market that would be facilitated by the SMF is in the trading
of medium-term debt instruments. The likelihood of such trading is greatly increased if short-term investors
such as banks are encouraged to buy and trade SMF bonds (see below). In Malaysia, this encouragement
has been applied in the form of excluding the amount of SMF bonds held from the base against which the
/ In fact, the weight for residential loans of the type backing the SMF loans is 50 percent. When applied to the
weight for unsecured interbank loans of 20 percent, the implication is that a weight of 10 percent would be
acceptable.



Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
liquidity reserve is applied. The CBJ would grant SMF bonds in Jordan this same advantage, at least
temporarily. 10
28.    Trading in SMF Bonds. Housing is not the only long-tern investment in a society. Factories,
hotels, and other long-lived assets would also benefit from long-term financing. Investor.- and borrowers
would also benefit from market infornation about the preferences for other borrowers and investors with
respect to the term of their financing; e.g., what premium is required to get investors to commit to a longer-
term interest rate or funding commitment. Addressing these issues requires the development of an active
market in long-termn debt. So far, efforts to do so in Jordan have not been successful. If the SMF succeeds
in attracting business, it would make issuances of bonds much more substantial and frequent than in recent
experience. At the time of each issuance, the pricing and marketing of the bonds should yield useful
information about the terms under which long-term capital can be raised. The next step would be to attempt
to encourage trading in the bonds. There are two benefits from frequent trading. One is the same as the
benefit from frequent issuances; i.e., better informnation as to market conditions. The second is that, if the
bonds are reasonably liquid, investors such as individuals and banks, who may have a shorter horizon than a
pension fund, may be comfortable holding the bonds and selling them as and when they wish.
29.    The simplest way of enticing more large investors into holding SMF bonds is to pernit banks to
count them against their liquidity ratio (or exempt an equal amount of deposits from the liquidity ratio).
Once ownership of the bonds becomes part of the calculation of their liquidity ratios, banks would have an
incentive to not only own the bonds, but also to trade them as their liquidity situation changes or in
anticipation of changes in interest rates. This has been the experience of Malaysia with respect to Cagamas
bonds and merits granting the SMF bonds this special treatment.
30.    The Ottoman Law and Mortgage Term.  It is commonly noted that housing finance in Jordan
has to work around a remaining provision of the Ottoman law that could possibly constrain the total
cumulative interest on a loan from exceeding the principal. Generally, it is a potential issue only if the tern
of the loan is longer than 10 years, something which lenders do not want to offer because of liquidity
concerns. However, since the SMF would allow lenders to manage their liquidity risk, the Ottoman Law
could possibly constrain them from extending the terrn of mortgages beyond 10 years. The CBJ is therefore
considering the issuance of an appropriate legal clarification that the CBJ Law (viz., Section 43 (E)) would
override the Ottoman Law in this respect.
/ There are relevant policy issues raised by these steps with respect to favoring the provision of credit to the housing
sector. The exemption of SMF fund raising through bond issuance from the reserve requirements is arguably
appropriate, given the differences of such fund raising for the risk and liquidity structure of the financial sector.
The application of SMF bonds towards meeting liquidity requirements, however, extends to SMF debt an
advantage that would not generally be available to other private debt issuances (if and when they appear). This
does extend to the housing market, at least that portion of it eligible for SMF refinance, a distortion in the cost of
credit that must be assessed against external benefits from a reduced cost of housing credit and the encouragement
of trading in a debt security that is far more likely to be tradeable than single issues of general corporate debt.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Letter of Sector Policy
c-1    J -1    1 C
THE HASHEUITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                                    L. . . . tJ  yl  <1 ,|l
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                              .IlL'W  I ;).J
AkAM.AN
Oat. &   JZ       4 /
Mr. James D. Wolfensoha
President
The World Bank
1818 H St-cet, N.W.
Washington, D.C.
U.S.A.
Dear M.r.Wolfcnsohn,
The Govermment of Jordan is undertaking a far-reaching effort to bring the
energy. creativity, and fiancing of the private seclor to bear on the development of
the economy.  An efficient macroeconomic fiamework is being maintained. The
role of the pdvate sector is being expanded through many mcans, including through
policy and regulatory refozms that wll help to crcate a level and cfficient playing
field, through invitations to the private sector to participarc in areas of the ecoaomy
such as infrastcture Ehat have traditionally bec= managed solely by the public
sector, through the corporatiztioa and privati=ton of public sector institutions, and
through the sale of government shares in public shareholding companies. In the
financial sector, measures are being implemented to improve banking competition in
the pLirniay market, incrcase market efficiency, and foster the development of long-
term  fiiancing instruncnts. Interest rates have already been liberalized and inflatioz
is being hcld to kcss than S percent per annum. Investnent and taxation laws are
bcing changed to cncourage private sector participation, while monopolie, customs
tariffs, and oLher barriers to private sector market entry, competition and exports are
bcing dismantled or reduced.
In the housing scctor, Jordan for many years has pursued policies and
strategies emphasizing public sector responsibility for meeting basic needs for
housing aad housing finance. In the production sector, a government housing
agcncy was esLablished to develop and service land and bousing. Its sustainability
depended on prefcrcntial tax, fcc and legal trcatments, and priority access to
govcrmxnent land, propeity  rights and subsidized financing.  Similarly, in the
financial sector, a goverrincat-sporisored1lousing Bank was established to help
%%K ,s,L.. 066 ;,- , " VJP 7sTAA / , Npc nl ,;ca , .,. NPC J.. . .> nwwrti. *r1    , c on' L  ) uLLi.^1/ . ili.m/VAS *:.in
T.l. (CM )6444"6470 -6.143X ,/.s . T5.Tr,.. 6&9.41'/642247, cSW*:,.'PCI. *: h3?C J.NTCI 24LM NELNPJA. P.O.11 .SSSA mn (II 1I2) )QADAN
v-1-  J, @J



Annex 2
Page 2 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                 2
MINISTtY Of PLANNING                                            Jq BLijj
AMMAN
Ref.  -                                                                                  -i
Date91
address  dte scarcity  of mortgage  financing;  it has also benefited from
government subsidies and special privileges so as to bc ablc to shoulder certain
obligations.
In  the production sector, following the  emergence of private sector
developers. the continuation of this approach would discourage private scstor
participation in developing land aad housing especially for lower income
households. It could also lead to misallocations of resources in the Govein7rints
ovrall development efrorts, since it would impose market risls on the Government
that the private sector should bear, and Icad to distortions in the use of land and
inifrastcture.  In the financial sector, the Govemnmt's eforfm  in the past to
provide below-market mortgage financing to lower income households through the
Housing Bank has limited conppeition in housing finance.
It is clear that, because of the fast growth and devalopment of the eocknomy in
recent yeas and the emercnce of I more vibrant financial market, thcre is a need
for new approachcs to prmote affordable housing ad housing finance, includi-ng
measures to deepcn the financial system, promote die private sector, and rmduce the
role of the public sector. Consistent with Jordan's emphasis in recenT years on
devcloping private sector solutions to economic problems, tle Govrnnnt intends
to implement measures to mobilize increased mortgage financing by thc banking
sector, and also to shift responsibility to the private secor for developiug land
and housing for loweq income houscholds. Ovcr time, public sector activitets will be
incrcasingly rcduced to policy, planning and research and upgrading works.
A special Tnter-Ministerial Stccring Committee, headed by the Minister of
Public Works and Hlou sing, and supported by the Housing and Urban Development
Corporation (HUDC) and special tcams composcd of public and private sector
officials, has delincated, and the Cabinet has approved, a comprehensive reformn
program. The Housing Finance and Urban Sectr Rcform Project would support
components of te program, described below, to expand the housing finance system
and to reforn the production sector.
;;  .  ,    ,,.*_ . ,sMJNP TLTA  S ,  src i ., , NPC ,,. srTTvfltr&x ,  .   ,iaatVv - L1rAsJM  .
T?l p6 52445I6/7f .A44.11I11j.hs. t LWdt 6IIt/tf447 ,Gabt: NN: l,Trt; 213zJ I,/Pc  242iaM>pIa.pOa| siSAN tl., CII I5tOlOAN
s.r.' ))



Annex 2
Page 3 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM4 OF JORDAN                                            L1       Zs.yl
MJIISTRY OF PLANNING                                             . ,--J ljJ
AMMAN
Date                *j:
EXPANDING THE HOUSJNG FINANCE MARKET
Jordan has a siong system of private commercial banks, as well as the
Housing Bank. The Housing Bank has maintained a dual-presence in the market,
competing in ordinary banking fields but also bearing special responsibilities
towards certain sectors of the economy, including providing convenient branches
and low-cost, long-term housing loans, with the backing of a v.-riety of special
privilegcs designed to be supportive in these endeavors. Ta promot general
competition in commercial banking aad particularly to encourage geater
competition in housing finance, the Governmmet has decided to remove the special
responsibilities and pLivileges of the Housing Bank. The proccss of removing these
privileges is already underway as part of a larger effort to encourage competition in
the general banking sector. The necessary amendments to the Housing Hank Law
and also the Companies Law are envisaged under the Economic Reform and
Development Loan (ERDL).
In the financial sector, the amounts and terms of market-basedmortgage
financing have bcc limited gcnerally to lower rsk motgages for higher income
households. Tic banking sector currendy relies on deposits (mainly short-term) for
funding; the absence of term liquidity weakens the attractiveness to the banking
sector of term lending. The primary and secondary markets in bonds and othcr term
securities are emerging but stiU underdeveloped, liuiting prudent opportunitiCs for
thc.banking sector to raise term finance to fund term lending.
It is clcar that more efficient fluncial mgrket mechanisms must be instituted
both to mobili7.c griater financial flows for mortgage lending and also to help
improve the terms of mortgages gcnerally available in the banking sector. This, in
tum. will improve the affordability of housing. In addition, it is dcsirable tu develop
the medium-term debt market, particularly with respect to the liquidity of debt
instrtzments.
'Ihi Goverxmcnt has thercfore decided to cstablish a Secondary Mortgage
Facility (SMWk) in 1996. The SMF will be established under the Companies Law and
regulated by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) as a financial institution. The
principal objectives of the SMF will be to:
,:,&,  j*ft ,L see _V . ,q. AUMIeYA "' /  NeC 1%NC     r p NPP * jI. UtTWIv/14rIT  ,.l .M  (41y *) 1ti1i/v .  LirAl/A* -
TSc. (%I s)646AiOQ - 4"31/153. TcICrll C934U1i,.&41, Cjbbd: NPCJn * roes: 212 3?CJ.'Jn 2425S .M4  Jo. P.0.29, 135 Amm.n (1111 JORDA4N
"/I.r ,X~



Annex 2
Page 4 of 9
r:-,J I z-J I &L I
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                                               L.;    Ls<wl
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                              ..L L      Ij,
AMMAN
Date
(a) create a sustainable, market-based source ofliquidityformortgagelendingto
belp banks improve the matching of maturites between their sourccs and uses of
funds; (b) support mortgae refinancing (estimatod to total about JD i00 mi2lion over
the first four years of SMF operations); and (c) build investor confidence in Jordan's
emerging bond maricet by offeing bonds of transparenly low risk. The SMF would
make housing lending more attractive, by permitting lenders to reduce significantly
the liquidity risks of medium and long-term mortgage lending.
The Governmntt will only bc a minority shareholder to ensure that the SMF
is primarily responsive to the needs of iLvestors and lenders. This approach will
mean that there will be no direct link between SMF operations and lending for low-
cost housing. However, the Government is confident that the expansion of housing
finance in ways that deepen the capital market in general and that build the
attractiveness of housing ledin&g, will provide substantial benefits to all Jordanian
households.
The SMF will have strong ownership participation by all key participants in
the financial system (e.g.. Government, CB], baaks,. and bond in.vest3rs), but
majority owncrsbip will be held by private sector-owned banks and investors.
However, no single bank (other than CBJ) or private sector partcipanr. wiU be
permitted to ovwn more than 10 percent of the SMF. Its charter will bc narrow to
shield it from substantial risk. It will have two main flinctons. First, it will mak
medium and long-term loans to the banidng sector on dte stength of pledged
collater;i consisting solely of mortgages on residential housing, and will nut accept
any risks associated with the original mortgagc loans (e.g., credit risk, interest rate
risk, pre-paymcnt risk). Second, die SMF will raise fands for lending to the banks
by offering bonds to investors. The proceeds of the proposed World Bank loan will
be on-lcnt to the SM? and wilj be subordinated to all other SMF borrowings, thereby
enhancing confidence in SMF bond issuances. IT order to be successful, the SMF
will rely on large scale issuance of bonds.
SMF loans to finaacial institutions will bc treated as interbank lending for
regulatory purposes. Hlowever. since SMF loanm wil be longer-tam thmn deposits
and have set ren.s, flands raised by banks through SNAP loans will be exempt from
the statutory and liquidity rescrve requirements of the CBJ. In addition, in order to
i%%%A LL- ~de  MIMP I ,r NPC Ms~,.14  m c NPCo L. unwmM 
gu .6    30 s ,9 _0 .6  ,4 1 P el YsVV   /          * ,& 9341Vi4 p24 7  (s * . T A239S5U,rI _ .  UI4T A) z /AMd  (   .I I ..rad 1M
Vg.(i, 44i,O -44M/5 ss40;/s Told,, '9sJl,6d47 CobblPC Jo. TcIa: 21319 ?JC I. 22<S3MINPJ. *P.ODsjSlJsAmmwa(IIS) OaAN
i ./ .r  r, J)



Annex 2
Page 5 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                ;   , '                           LJI
MINISTRY OF PLANNING               ^kL                                ;J
AMM.AN
Onto
oat.                                                                                ea
encourage the development of the overall bond market and in recognition of its low-
resk status, SMF bonds held by banks wil count towards mccting Lhe CBJ's liquiditr
rcscrve requirements for banks. This will greatly enhance the tmdeability of the
bonds issued by the SMF. The bonds will also qualify as invcsmsen  for insurance
companies and pensicn funds. intcrest income derived fEom SM? bonds wiU be
exempt from taxation in accordance with current tax laws.
The Covemmcnt is cmrcntly worldng on proposed changes to the Companics
Law that will help to facilitate thc fizrer development of the bond rnarket Pending
their enactment into law, die Issuing Committee. as specified under the provisions of
the existing Companics Law, has granted exemptions to the SMF with rcspect to the
Companics Law's current limitations on the issuace of bonds in excess of capital.
In addition, the Government wffl establish appropriate mechanism to facilitate and
streamlne SMF operations in matters such as the reistration and ransfer of liens.
REFORM OF THE PRODUCTION SECTOR
in the production sector, the prvate sector already plays a major role in land
development. housing construction, and the fting of housing. However, the
pnvate sector has been operating mainly in the market for upper midcde and high
income housing. The formal housing market for lower income households has been
served mainly by government-sponsored housing ageacies. Small owner-builders
and other informal developer, have also operated in the lower income housing
market--
Tne public sector housing agencies were merged in 1992 to form the EIousing
and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCX  whose mandate incIudes the
development, sale and mortgagc financing of land and housing targctod to lower
income households, and also formulation of housing policy. Rcccn'dy, the
Govemrnent has confined HUDC's commcrciaUy-oriented activities only to land
developmeat.
HIUDC and its prcdecessors were responsible for the successffil completion of
many projects helpful to thousands of lower-income 3ordanians. However,
expcrience has shown that Govecment-sponsored production of housing tends to
*:radW. s    ,.-,, * ,v MW4P l  ' ._ NPC MrA ,,4 , e.J  NPC W',t. 1tYrr irV_-I= - (*IT 1) 11i rm/A.   l  A -A. 
TrLd(9U4q4.d4 6I.4' I ins T.I.a. T  l    d-6&2347 . C&bh: tPC is.T TL. 219N PCJa I 24251MNPJ 1. P.0 ro  Jtl Amsn&z (11UllJOAD)AN
~*/l* .',1  J



Annex 2
Page 6 of 9
p-3,.AjI C'.-%   dI .I    -
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM Of JORDAN                                           L ,1ul
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                            J     .J1 ;J
AMJAkoN
RaeL
Date
involve certain inefficiencies and also tends to undermine dhe market potcntial for
privatc sector development Thus, an importaat goal of the Govenment is to bring
the benefits of increased private sector participation into the market, especially for
lower income housing. A second goal is co reducche role of the public sector in
commercially-oriented production of land to allow the private sector to take on a
much greater share of the business and market risks associated with land and
housing development
Beginning in 1994. the Government decided to explore how to reduce the role
of the HUDC in land producdion and, simultaneously, to reorient its resources and
functions to encourage the private sector to be more active in the portion of the
market that bas been sewred by HUDC. Accordingly, a number of studies and other
preparation activities were canied out by HUDC.
Aftcr reviewing the finings and recommendatons of these actrv;ies, the
Cabinet has approved and announced a package of institutional and regulatory
reform measures to support the emergencc of an cfficicnt privatc sector real cstate
industry responsive to the needs of low and moderate income householdsL The
approved measures will: (a) reduce the regulatory barriers that constrain the pnivate
sector from enteing and competing iz the lower income market, and from
responding efriciently and effectively to market signals and needs; and (b) laumch
a new Public-Prtvare Partnership Procesi to atmact greater private sector
participation in land and housing development  AU developers will benclit from
improvecT zoning and development rcgulation, capable of making private
development significandy more affordable.
The principal regulatory reform mcaswres, which have been announced by the
Goverrnment for irmediatc implemcnatrion. include:
GTanting fUl rights to the private sector to adopt and use tlc more
affordable plot sizes and building standards devcloped and used by
HUDC; all developcrs will benefit from improved zoning and
development regulation. which should be capable of making private sector
dcvelopmeat sigtificantly more affordable.
;,s,'t .1MU% J> $&    _,F 116    NPC nr      * , NP*C '-',   - .  oamAr%sti . {qtr i) 111MV - ltWAAS 
Td. CA241 44d4v7O .-d421/&J. TeTfr(: 547 1;d6J2241.Cagb:N?CIe.TwIse: 213 l, N?CJ)/'24- MThNPI...0  555 ASAwz (tIIII)JO0KAN



Annex 2
Page 7 of 9
THE MASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                           J.L L.il ;_,
AM,VAN
Ref.  _      __
Oata
* Promoting. through zoning and re-zoning, the increased availability of
residential aes in the major urban centcrs that ale zoned for Category D
(250 - 300 m2) and E (170 m2) or smaller plots.
*  Simplifying and strcamlining, by  1997, regulations, processes and
procedures in land and housing sector development
Thc centerpicce of the institutional reorm measures is a fdidamental changc
in HTJDC's role and mandate from that of publtc sectorproducer of.serviced land to
that of policy formulator, facilitator andpromoter ofprtvate sector development of
land and houasingfor low and modrate income households. Beginning in 1996. the
performance of thc institutional reform measures will be judged nainly on how well
EUDC attracts and facilitates private sector developmentofland ad housing for
low and moderate income households. HUDC's land development activitics will be
expected to decline over time; it will not purchase any additional land for
development purposes exceeding SO hectares cxcept as approved by the Minister of
Public Works and Housing.
To carry out its new role, HUJDC will adopt a number of alr.rnative
approaches.  One approach will be to acdon otfto the private sector the rights to
develop HUDC-owned land in accordance with specified dcvclopment criteria, such
as the mix of plot sizes and pTice ceilings for housing units. Another approach will
be to solicit partnerships with private developers of private land, whereby HUDC
offers ies-expertise to facilitate design. implemeatadion and approval processes.
The performance of the reform program will be assessed in accordance with
targets for HUlDC-facilitated land and housing development schemes carried out by
whoUy private sector-owned developers. The targets for IUDC-sponsored private
sector schemes will increase annually over the next five years. Concertec efforts
vill be made to achieve the trgets, if aecessary by reallocating, through auction or
other transparent method, the development rights an HUDC sites to prisvate sector
developmcnt
The Goverunent has recently instructed land ise planning and zonin8
auLhorities to sclcct, in consultation withb HUTDC, at least 200 hectares of sires that
*,-j - IMA ,L as  *  MOO TIVI*A  N O , C rM  , .     NKC l,. Ju %&TYLV/W1&r -,%    . ('1T 1) ItLIlIVA . ItirAV%  -:A
T,L(*M24)6..dC7. 64J*I'tS. T.Ikrt^6494/i4IO2!41. CabZa:NPJO Clo 3lWNl  CIoI~2lSO MNP Jo P O3otSS$Am^t~alIII3)1OAAN



Annex 2
Page 8 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                                            . :L|; Ijj
AAM.AN
Ref.
Date
are weII-Iocatcd to cmployment opporturities and endsting infrastructure, for a quick
start-up of private sector development operations.
By the end of 1998, and after extensive consultations at national and local
lcvels, the Governcent will ftnrulate and implement proposals to revise the laws
and by-laws governing zoning to rationalize Land use, and will also amend HUDC's
charter and other governing laws to improve the formnlation of housing and urban
land management policics and their implementation proocsses at all levels.
REFOLM OF SUBSIDY MECHANISMS
The housing finance and urban sector reform program described ab'wc will
achicve efficicacies in the housing sector by deepening the mortgagc ma-.et and
expanding the role of the unsubsidized private sector. In addition, the Government
plans to supplement the reform program with additional measures to address the
special needs of disadvantaged groups through reliance on more cfficient tools that
are transparent and bttcer targeted. The Govemment is also considering programs
chat separale subsidics from finance. The Government would bc plcased to rece
continuing support from the Bank in formulating t.se special programs.
OVERSIGHT OF THE REFORM PROGRAM
The Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, under the Chairmanship of the
Minister of Public Worls and 1-Tousing and comprising the Ministrs of Planning;
Finarce,`Industry and Trade; Municipalitdcs. Rural Affairs and the Enviromment;
Agriculture; AdminisuiLive Development; the Governor of CBI; and the Director
General of HUDC, will oversee implementatioa of the reform program and the
Housing Finance and Urbaa Sector Reform Project IWUDC will be responsible for
implementing the institutional and regulatory reform component of the Project, and
CBJ for implementing the SMF component. Following the legal establishnent of
the S!v, responsibility for implementation of the SME: component will become that
'*I    s   *.    \s ;, X  MIN   _ !tS r.   / ,~ Nec r'fn  ,,.   * ,. NPc l,,, . 1trYtV/oter1  ,.~    (or 1) ltttn~P    *sILL?fA/A  ,J
Tr. (W. 164 oV71 Bttt . &IIS T.iafa A 4G*3VBi22n7, . ChI. NJ?Co Jo TdIx 2I23 9 NP Jn. /14151 Mtr Je . P 0.5., SSS Avn.w (1111 1) JORDAN



Annex 2
Page 9 of 9
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN                       iJ1    j   ,L< '1A
MINISTRY OF PLANNING                     i| LL_-  ;t;
AMMAN
Ref.
of the SMFs Board of Directors and   nagementb ut CBJ il contirue to overseo
the SMF componeat during the project peiod& Bodt HUDC and CBJ have
estabshed Project ITrpilmcntation Units to manage the implementation of thcir
respective project components.
Sincerely yours,
Dr. Ris KLaaf Hunaidi
MhIser of Planning
;* WA s... e. @" * .* MJNP TTrA / ,pC c   lpC nr .I &tv/'U-krt% ,  (wnr -1u /n . L?M/AA .
Td. t  4-o. 644n1loU. Tt *49341144247. CamI:                         UnP.Tl,sa:2tI39  /24 251 IWr* e, P.O kSA(m5rn  IXl l)JOILCAN






Annex 3
Page I of 2
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria for Use of the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Criteria for Financial Institutions to Borrow from the SMF
I1.    A financial institution would be eligible to enter into a Participation Agreement with the SMF
provided it:
(a)   is privately owned;
(b)   is in compliance with all applicable banking or financial company laws, capital adequacy
requirements, and monetary regulations of the CBJ;
(c)   is current in the auditing of its financial statements by independent auditors, and has an
audit report that is unqualified;
(d)    has a sound financial structure and satisfactory financial perfornance, and the
organization, management, staff and other resources required for efficient operations;
(e)    has adequate technical and administrative capacity and qualified staff, and financial and
operating policies satisfactory to the SMF and the Bank, for appraising and monitoring a
mortgage loan portfolio and for carrying out other mortgage lending activities;
(f)   supervises and monitors the mortgage loans in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the SMF, the CBJ and the Bank;
(g)    adheres to the criteria and principal terms and conditions required by the SMF for
extending mortgage loans that would be pledged as collateral, including those given in
paragraphs 2 and 3 below;
(h)   exchanges views with, and furnishes all such information and documentation as may
reasonably be requested by the SMF and CBJ, in regard to the mortgage loans pledged as
collateral, the performance of its obligations under its Participation Agreement, and its
audited accounts; and
(i)   in the case of a new financial institution, has demonstrated, on the basis of an
institutional development plan satisfactory to the SMF and the Bank, that it has the
organization, management, staff and other resources required for appraising and
monitoring a mortgage loan portfolio and for carrying out other mortgage lending
activities.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Criteria for Pledging of Loans
2.    Each mortgage loan pledged to the SMF as collateral would satisfy the following criteria:
(a)    The mortgaged property would be for owner-occupied or rental residential use primarily;
(b)    The remaining term of the mortgage loan would be 140 percent or more of the term of
the loan being extended by the SMF;
(c)    The maximum allowable level of arrears on the mortgage loan would be 3 months; and
(d)    The ratio of the mortgage loan to the appraised value of the property does not exceed 80
percent.
3.    As any of the mortgage loans pledged as collateral are redeemed, fall into arrears of more than 3
months, or have normal or early payments of principal made, the PFI would be required to pledge
additional mortgage loans or other assets approved by the SMF, in order to maintain at the end of each
calendar quarter, and aggregate principal value of collateral of 120 percent of the SMF's loans to the PFI.



Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Financial Analysis and Projections of Secondary Mortgage Facility Operations
Introduction
1.    The design of the SMF's institutional and operational modalities has been tailored to the particular
circumstances in Jordan and would likely need further development as experience is gained from operations.
But this would not assure its success. Success would depend primarily on whether lenders perceive the cost
and features of funds obtained through the SMF to be attractive relative to funds raised by deposit-taking.
Expectations of Bond Investors
2.     For investors, the expected benefits from investing in SMF bonds would comprise low credit risk, a
reliable return over the medium term, and potentially a reasonable degree of liquidity. These features can be
contrasted with the alternatives of bank deposits and government-guaranteed bonds. As of October 1995,
banks were taking large deposits for periods of 6 months to a year at rates between 8.5 percent to 9.0
percent, tax-free. These deposits were not immediately liquid, included some degree of credit risk, and the
rates were subject to change at maturity. Government 1 0-year bonds were sold at 9.25 percent and were not
expected to be traded. (There was some basis for expecting the implicit yield curve to be fairly flat, because
deposit rates in the medium tern could decline if inflation stayed low and U.S. rates declined). However,
government bonds have the advantage of eligibility for the required liquidity reserve of banks. Since this
provision would also be extended to SMF bonds, banks should be interested in holding and possibly trading
them at rates only a little above the rates on government bonds (if fixed) or on CBJ Certificates of Deposit
(CDs) (if floating). If the SMF bonds did not offer this feature, the banks would not be interested in holding
them at rates much less than the all-in cost of funding, around 11 percent.
3.     The above analysis suggests that the banks and long-term investors such as the Social Security
Corporation (SSC), insurance companies, and some individuals should be willing to hold the SMF bonds at
rates as low as 25-50 basis points over the rate on government bonds. However, the rate would have to be
higher if the bonds were not eligible for the liquidity reserve. If the banks are not holders, liquidity would
also be diminished, further increasing the required rate. If the market in SMF bonds develops a reasonable
degree of liquidity and low transactions costs, the rate could be lower.
Expectations of Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
4.     For PFIs, SMF funding should reduce the interest rate risk of mortgage lending, assuming the bonds
and the funds are offered with a matching degree of variability in interest rate that appeals to investors,
banks, and borrowers and, since SMF funds are for a longer term, also reduce the liquidity risk of mortgage
lending. PFI's should therefore be willing to pay more for SMF funds than the highest stated rate on
incremental deposits including the cost of raising and holding the incremental deposits, since SMF funds
would substitute for deposits. This premium could be 50 basis points or more. The breakeven lending rate
for an additional JD of deposit raised at 9.0 percent is at least 11.0 percent cu..ently (with 14 percent set
aside in cash and another 16 percent in CBJ CDs at 8.5 percent). These considerations imply that if the
highest stated rate on one-year deposits is 9.0 percent (and is expected to remain so for the next 5 years),



Annex 4
Page 2 of 6
then PFIs would be willing to pay about .11.5 percent or more for SMF funding, assuming that the loan from
the SMF is exempt from the statutory and liquidity reserve requirements. If the loan is at a fixed rate, and
the PFI's housing loans are also, the PFI should be willing to pay even more if it expects interest rates to
continue to rise in the medium term.
Commercial Viability of the SMF
5.    In arriving at a sustainable lending rate. the SMF would have to add a margin to cover the costs of
bond issuance, of administration, and of capital. In this regard, a major determinant of the viability of the
SMF would be the total volume of SMF lending. The administrative expenses of the SMF would be
relatively fixed, and thus the spread it will require for its operations would depend on the volume of its
business. Of course, the volume of its business would depend on the spread, so this issue would only be
settled once all the other considerations become clearer. Table 4.1 summarizes the assumptions, discussed
below, that form the basis for the financial projections given in Table 4.2.
6.    It appears that currently the amount of qualifying loans (i.e., for residential purposes, at market rate,
for more than 5 years, and less than JD50,000) made annually by all banks is less than JD40 million.
However, this volume should increase significantly if more banks are willing to lend and for longer terms.
In addition, there is at least another JD50 million outstanding of such loans which could be refinanced in the
near term. Thus, the projections in this annex indicate a potential for the SMF to accumulate a net portfolio
of around JD100 million in the space of 4 years, if the pricing of its funds is attractive enough.
7.     A major operating cost is that of issuing and servicing SMF bonds. Interviews with investment
bankers indicate that the current cost of issuing JD5 million of 5-year bonds would be about 2.0 percent.
However, the SMF would be a frequent issuer of bonds with a small number of major purchasers. On a
portfolio of JDI00 million, this could bring underwriting costs down to 1.5 percent or less, or the equivalent
of about 0.3 percent per year or 30 basis points for 5-year bonds. In addition, however, there would be a
relatively small on-going cost for servicing the bonds.
8.     The administrative costs of the SMF would be similar. Based on the experience of Cagamas
(Malaysian SMF) in administering a very similar program, a staff of only 14-16 would be needed to operate
the program initially. In addition, there would be the cost of offices, equipment, outside auditors, and so on.
A preliminary estimate, based on the expense profile of the Jordan Loan Guarantee Corporation, is that such
administrative costs would amount to about JD350,000, or about 0.35 percent per year or 35 basis points on
a portfolio of JDIOO million.
9.     Finally, there is the cost of capital. The capital needs of the SMF should be relatively small and the
risks involved less than those in most equity investments. Thus, private shareholders may expect a premium
of only 6-7 percent, after tax,s, over the (tax-free) deposit rate (8-9 percent), or an overall rate of return on
equity of about 15 percent. On capital of JD5 million and a portfolio of JD]OO million, such a return would
require an additional before-tax spread of about 70 basis points.  Thus, the SMF's total gross spread
requirement would be about 135 basis points. This implies that the cost of SMF funds to the PFIs should be
no more than the all-in costs of deposits. Assuming that the rate on SMF bonds is about 9.75 percent, the
SMF would need to charge about II percent on its loans to PFIs, which is roughly at the lower end of the
range that banks are estimated to be willing to pay.
10.   In summary, the SMF should be commercially viable, even without taking into account potential
benefits to PFIs from improved asset-liability management or to borrowers from longer lending terms. If
these benefits are significant, the SMF should thrive. Nevertheless, the estimates for the SMF are based on



Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
a number of assumptions with ranges of reasonable error that impose on the SMF a significant risk that it
could be left with a customer base too small for it to be commercially viable.
Table 4.1 - Projected Feasibility of the SMF
Cost of Funds to the SMF:
Rate Paid on Deposits (6 mos.):            9.00 percent
Rate Paid on CBJ CDs (6 mos.):             8.50 percent
Rate Paid on Syndicated Loans:     10.5 - 1 1.00 percent
Projected Rate on Floating Rate SMF Bonds:
-if in liquidity reserve:                  9.25 percent
-if not in liquidity reserve:             10.00 percent
Projected Rate on 3-Yr. Fixed Rate:
-if in liquidity reserve:                 9.75 percent
-if not in liquidity reserve:             10.50 percent
Required Spread by SMF:
Costs of Bond Issuance:                   0.30 percent
Costs of Administration:                  0.35 percent
Return on Equity:                         0.7 percent
Total:                                     1.35 percent
Costs to Banks of Alternative Loanable Funding:
Deposits (14 percent set aside in cash,
26 percent invested in CDs at 8.5 percent): 11.3 percent
Net Savings to Banks of SMF Funding
(not including advantages of lower
liquidity and interest rate risk):
Treated as Liquidity Reserve:
Floating Rate:                            0.70 percent
Fixed Rate:                               0.20 percent
Not Treated as Liquidity Reserve:
Floating Rate:                            (0.05) percent
Fixed Rate:                              (0.55) percent



Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
Table 4.2 - Financial Projections for Jordan SMF
(Year I starting 6-9 months after Effectiveness)
NOTE 1 : INDUSTRY AVERAGE TENOR OF ELIGIBLE EXISTING LOANS
In JD Million
Amount Original Average
Tenor  Tenor
Housing Loans                                    100
Market)                                          50      8.00     6.50
(Subsidized; Present Value at market rate)        50     15-30    15.00
yrs.
NOTE 2 : NEW ORIGINATION OF LOANS PER YEAR
In JD Million
Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Value of Credit                                   40       50      60       70       80
Value of Total Credit                                                                300
Assumed Tenor                                     7        8        9       10       10
Rate of Inflation                                4%       4%       4%       4%       4%
NOTE 3 :OUTSTANDING LOANS
In JD Million
Year I  Yesr 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year S
Existing Market Loans                             50      45       39       32       25
Existing Subsidized Loans(PV)                     50      48       45       41       36
ew Loans Year 1                                 40       36       32      27       22
New Loans Year 2                                          50       46       42       38
New Loans Year 3                                                   60       56       52
New Loans Year 4                                                            70       67
New Loans Year 5                                                                     80
End-Year Balance                                 140      179      222     269      319
Growth                                                   28%       23%     21%      191/.
NOTE 4 : REFINANCING BY SMF (5 YEARS)
In JD Million
Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
Percent of Outstanding Loans                     10%     20%      300/o    40%      50%
Refinancing by SMF                                14      22       31       41       52
Outstanding Refinancing                           14      36       66       107      159
Pledged Loans (120%)                              17      43       so       129      191
Percentage of Total Loans                        12%     24%      36%      48%      60%
Average Annual Balance                            7       25       51       87       133
GrossOperating Inc.                   10.85%   0.760   2.706    5.551    9.434   14.471
NOTE S : BONDS ISSUED BY SMF (5 YEARS)
In JD Million
Year I  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year S
Annual Issuance                                   14      22       31       41       52
Outstanding Bonds                                 14      36       66       107      159
Avcrage Balance                                   7       25       5 1      87       133
Interest & Other Costs                 9.80%    0.686   2.444    5.014    8.521   13.070
Intermediation Income                           0.073    0.262    0.537    0.913    1.400
iSpread                                         1.05%    1.05%    1.05%    1.05%    1.05%



Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
Table 4.2  - Financial Projections for Jordan SMF
(Continued)
NOTE 6  : STAFF OF SMF                      (in JD)
Annual
Year I  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Increment
Managing Director                                  I        I        I        I        I
Per Person per Month                         3,000    3,150    3,308    3,473    3,647    5_0%
Total per Month                              3,000    3,150    3,308    3,473    3,647
Total per Year                              36,000   37,800   39.690   41,675   43,758
Managers                                           2        2        2        2        2
Per Person per Month                         2,000    2,100    2,205    2,315    2,431    5.0%
Total per Month                              4,000    4,200    4.410    4,631    4,862
Total per Year                              48,000   50,400   52,920   55,566   58,344
Senior Officers                                    3        3        4        4        4
Per Person per Month                         1,000    1,050    1,103    1,158    1,216   5.0%
Total per Month                              3,000    3,150    4,410    4,631    4,862
Total per Year                              36,000   37.800   52.920   55,566   58,344
Officers                                           5        5        6        6        7
Per Person per Month                          750      788      827       868      912   5.0%
Total per Month                              3,750    3,938    4,961    5,209    6,381
Total per Year                              45,000   47,250   59,535   62,512   76,577
Support Staff                                      3        4        4        5        5
Per Person per Month                          200      210      221       232      243   5.0%
Total per Month                               600      840      882    1.158    1,216
Total per Year                               7,200   10,080   10.584   13,892   14,586
Total                                             14       15       17       18       19
Per Person per Month                         6,950    7,298    7,662    8.045    8,448
Total per Month                             14,350   15,278   17,971   19,101   20,967
Total per Year                             172,200  183,330  215,649  229,210  251,610
Bonus                                         21,525   22,916   26,956   28.651   31,451     1.5
Total                                        193.725  206,246  242,605  257,861  283,061   Months
Social Security                               19,373   20,625   24,261   25.786   28,306   10.0%
Grand Total in JD                            213,098  226,871  266,866  283,647  311,367  Min Rate
Grand Total in JD Million                      0.213    0.227    0.267    0.284    0.311
NOTE 7 : OTHER OVERHEAD COSTS
In JD                                                                   Annual
Year I   Year 2   Year3   Year 4   Year5  Increment
Premises -Rental/Power/Water                  25,000   27,000   29.160   31,493   34,012    8.0%
lCars -Leasing                                 8,000    8,560    9,159    9.800   10,486   7.0%
Others                                        10,000   10,700   11,449   12,250   13,108   7.0%
Total                                         43,000   46,260   49,768   53,544   57,607
Growth per Year                                          7.6%     7.6%     7.6%     7.6%
In Million                                     0.043    0.046    0.050    0.054    0.058
Total Overhead(Staff and Others)               0.256    0.273    0.317    0.337    0.369
NOTE 8 : NON OPERATIONAL INCOME
In JD Million
Year I  Year 2  Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Rates
Capital/Res. Inv. in Govt Sec                  4.980    5.066    5.211    5.435    5.781
Income                                       0.448    0.456    0.469    0.489    0.520    9%



Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
Table 4.2 - Financial Projections for Jordan SMF
(Continued)
NOTE 9 : CASH FLOWS in JD Million
Year 0 Year I Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
|INFLOWS
Capital                                       5.000  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000    0.000
Bonds Issues                                  0.000 14.000 21.880 30.570  40.990   51.860
Refinancing Income                            0.000  0.760  2.706  5.551   9-434   14.471
Investment Income                            Q0.0Q  QA0I 4   .a5A6  0.4692   0.4    0520Q
Total                                         5.000 15.208 25.042 36.590  50-913   66.851
lOUTFLOWS
Refinancing                                  0.000 14.000 21.880 30.570  40.990   51.860
lBonds Costs                                  0.000  0.686  2.444  5.014   8.521   13.070
Investment                                   4.980  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000    0.000
Overhead Expenses                             0.000  0.256  0.273  0.317   0.337    0.369
lTaxation                                     0.000  0.093  0.156  0.241   0.373    0.543
Bank Account                                 0.020  0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000    0.000
lDividends(1/2Profit)                        Q000   Q0.8   0.145  0224   0.346    0.504
Total                                         5.000 15.121 24.897 36.366  50.567   66.347
NETFLOW                                      0.000  0.086  0.145  0.224   0.346    0.504
NOTE 10 : PROFIT & LOSS
In JD Million                  Year I Year 2 Year 3  Year 4  Year 5
IISCOME
Refinancing Income                                   0.760  2.706  5.551   9.434   14.471
Investment Income                                    0.448  0.456  0.469   0.489    0.520
rotal                                                1.208  3.162  6.020   9.923   14.991
EXPENSE
Bonds Costs                                          0.686  2.444  5.014   8.521   13.070
lBorrowing Costs                                     0.000  0.000  0.000   0.000    0.000
Overhead Expenses                                    0.256  0.273  0.317   0.337    0.369
Total                                                0.942  2.717  5.331   8.858   13.439
Net Before Tax                                       0.266  0.445  0.690   1.065    1.552
ITaxation (35%)                                      0.093  0.156  0.241   0.373    0.543
Net After Tax                                        0.173  0.289  0.448   0.692    1.009
Retum on Initial Equity                             3.45%  5.78%  8.96%  13.84%  20.17%
NOTEII  :BALANCESHEETinJDmillion                    Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4  YearS
Cash Balance                                         0.113  0.176  0.261   0.393    0.563
Refinancing                                         14.000 35.880 66.450 107.440  159.300
Investments                                          5.066  5.211  5.435   5.781    6.285
Total                                               19.179 41.266 72.146 113.614  166.148
Bonds                                               14.000 35.880 66.450 107.440  159.300
Other Liabilities                                    0.093  0.156  0.241   0.373    0.543
Total l iabilities                                  14.093 36.036 66.691  107.813  159.843
Capital                                              5.000  5.000  5.000   5.000    5.000
|Reserves                                            0.086  0.231  0.455   0.801    1.305
Total Capital Funds                                  5.086  5.231  5.455   5.801    6.305
otal                                               19.179 41.266 72.146 113.614  166.148



Annex 5
Page 1 of 12
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators
Implementation Arrangements
1.    An Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, under the Chairmanship of the Minister of Public Works
and Housing and comprising the Ministers of Planning; Finance; Industry and Trade; Municipalities, Rural
Affairs and the Environment; Agriculture; Administrative Development; the Governor of the Central Bank
of Jordan (CBJ); and the Director General of HUDC, would oversee implementation of the reform program
and the Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project. HUDC would be responsible for implementing
the institutional and regulatory reform component of the Project. The Board of Directors and management
of the Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF) would be responsible for implementing the SMF component, but
CBJ would monitor this component during the project period. Both HUDC and CBJ have established
Project Implementation Units (PIUs) for their respective project components. The two PlUs would monitor
compliance with Bank guidelines, procurement, schedules, loan covenants, performance indicators,
expected costs at completion, and project accounts (including commitments and disbursements), report on
project implementation progress, keep track of historical changes, and participate in Bank supervision
missions.
2.    During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, by September 30, 1996, HUDC would establish
and staff a dedicated organizational unit to perform its new facilitator role and to manage the
implementation of the institutional and regulatory reform measures. This unit would be headed by an
experienced manager with advanced training in economics and his or her staff would include a competent
urban planner and a competent statistician.
3.    A comprehensive Mid-Term Review involving the Government and the Bank would be carried out
no later than December 31, 1998, to: (a) review progress to date; (b) assess performance against monitorable
indicators; (c) assess the sustainability of the SMF and the effectiveness of HUDC's new role and mandate;
(d) assess the willingness of private sector developers and banks to construct and finance lower income
housing; and (e) assess also the willingness of municipalities to rezone land to allow smaller plot sizes for
private sector land developers. If necessary, adjustments to project components and procedures would be
made to improve project implementation.
4.    Performance of the project in meeting its objectives would be measured against selected key
development impact indicators for each of the two project components. Implementation progress would be
monitored using key performance monitoring indicators (Table 5.2).
Development Impact Indicators for the SMF
5.    Three distinct benefits are expected from the SMF: (a) a decrease in the liquidity risk of the
mortgage portion of bank portfolios, due to an increase in its liquidity; (b) an increase in the ability to
borrow for housing, due to a lengthening of the term to maturity in the market-rate loans being offered by
lenders; and (c) a decrease in the cost of intermediation for corporate bonds, due to an increase in the
liquidity of all corporate bonds. Of these benefits, only the second, the increase in borrowing ability, is



Annex 5
Page 2 of 12
directly measurable. However, all of the benefits have correlates that are measurable and can be tracked as
indicators of the success of the SMF. The SMF project component impacts can be measured most carefully
by regularly surveying lenders as to the their cost of funds, their rates and other terms for mortgage lending,
the amounts of such lending and perhaps also their narrative perspectives on such lending. Such a survey
would be designed under the auspices of the project and conducted by the SMF.
6.     Decrease in Liquidity Risk, As discussed in Annexes 4 and 8 on the financial and economic
analyses of the SMF, respectively, the banks currently seem to be seeking in their mortgage lending a gross
spread of about 250 basis points over their all-in marginal cost of deposits. A portion of this should be
related to the illiquidity being introduced into their portfolio by lending long-term for housing. That portion
should be reducible to near zero, if the SMF offers lenders a viable option for refinancing their loan
portfolio. Such a reduction in the liquidity risk associated with housing loans should be noticeable in two
respects. The gross operating spread of lenders in a competitive market should decline over time. A
reduction of up to 50 basis points may be achieved within about five years. Also, lenders should be willing
to lend for longer terms than the 7 years currently observed (see below). Thus, both of these parameters of
market behavior would be used as indicators of development impact.
7.     Observing changes in market spread would not be straightforward. Efforts would need to be made
to systematically track the average effective rate on mortgage lending, accounting for the offering of
discounts to some borrowers and the imposition of various fees that raise the effective rate. Some work
would also need to be done on how banks view their all-in marginal cost of funds, as a function of their rate
for large deposits and the costs of reserve requirements.
8.    Indirect measures of development impact in this regard would also be monitored, including the
volume of SMF refinancing activity, the share of outstanding mortgage loans which it refinances, and its
achievement of commercial sustainability. The financial projections given in Table 4.2, Annex 4, suggest
that the SMF's outstanding portfolio of mortgage refinancings could possibly grow to about JDl00 million
after about five years, or an estimated 40 percent of the projected total volume of mortgage loans in Jordan.
Other indirect measures of development impact include the self reports of lenders and the appearance of
lengthening in the term to maturity for housing loans. The term extension is particularly important because
it is the major channel whereby the impacts on the intermediation process create benefits for individual
households. But direct measurement of a narrowing of the intermediation spread would be needed to assess
whether the SMF has reduced liquidity risks on the outstanding portfolio of housing loans, as it is expected
to.
9.     Longer Lending Terms. The impact on term to maturity should be relatively easy to measure at
lenders other than the Housing Bank. It is commonly noted in Jordan that lenders do not commit funds for
longer than 7-8 years, both because of liquidity concerns and because of the perceived limitations of the
Ottoman Law on cumulative interest. The average term of new housing loans could possibly increase to
about 10 years after about five years. The effect on the overall market may not be so evident because the
Housing Bank already offers longer terms on its smaller loans as part of its special role within the banking
sector. If and when all of the privileges and subsidies of the HB are removed or extended to other banks, the
terms set by the HB relative to the other banks would be of interest. Despite the fact that the HB currently
offers loans with longer terms to maturity, there are reasons to expect that increased competition among
banks, made possible by the operation of the SMF, will increase the total volume of lending. This is
because the HB currently has incentives to limit its lending through non-price rationing, since housing loans
are made at below-market interest rates. Competition may force a reduction in any such non-price rationing.
All of these dimensions of lender behavior would be tracked through regular surveys by the SMF.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 12
10.   Decrease in the Cost Qf Intermediation (impacts on financial markets). The SMF has the potential
to generate external benefits for the development of the overall financial market through its creation of
additional long-term domestic debt securities of minimal and homogeneous risk. This would allow
investors a greater choice of portfolio configurations, permit all banks greater flexibility in managing their
portfolios, and provide the basis for the development of a more liquid market in all forms of domestic debt
securities, especially corporate bonds.
11.   These benefits, however, are quite uncertain. They depend at a minimum on the success of the SMF
in developing interest in using its facilities, on the development of a competitive market in initial issuances
of the SMF, and on Jordanian investors, especially banks, trading in SMF debt as part of their asset-liability
management. The best measures of development impact in this regard would be with respect to: (a)
perceptions that there is useful information on the shape of a yield curve spanning 1-10 years out; and (b)
the occurrence of trading in the after-market for SMF debt. A intermediate measure of success in this
respect would be the posting of relevant bid prices for SMF debt on some regular basis, even if actual
transactions are not very common.
12.   Market Evaluation of Credit Risks. The SMF may have some impact on the evaluation of credit risk
by the financial markets. In principle, the credit risk of the SMF bonds should be very low, but still more
than for government debt. Since the only risk that the market has been able to evaluate in the past has been
that of the Government, a successful launch of SMF debt without a government guarantee would require
some evolution in risk assessment, and would therefore an indicator of positive development impact of the
SMF. An evaluation of this situation would be made after the first two years of the project (at the Mid Term
Review).
Development Impact Indicators for the Institutional and Regulatory Reform Measures
13.    The institutional and regulatory reform measures included in the proposed project would support the
emergence of an efficient private sector real estate industry responsive to the needs of low and moderate
income households. In particular, they would: (a) reduce the regulatory barriers that constrain the private
sector from operating in the lower income markets; and (b) launch a new Public-Private Partnership
Process to attract and promote private sector participation in land and housing development for lower
income households.
14.    The centerpiece of the institutional reform measures would be a fundamental change in HUDC's
role and mandate from that of public sector producer of serviced land to that of policy formulator,
facilitator and promoter of private sector development of land and housing for low and moderate income
households. Recently, HUDC has announced its new role and mandate in the media and has begun to solicit
private sector interest in potential land and housing development schemes. In addition, HUDC, in
consultation with local land use planning and zoning authorities, has selected about 200 hectares of sites for
private sector development of lower income housing that are well-located to employment opportunities and
existing infrastructure, to help facilitate a quick start-up of PSD operations. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that HUDC would establish by September 30, 1996, and thereafter maintain an organizational
unit dedicated to facilitating private sector development of land and housing for lower income households.
In addition, HUDC intends to strengthen its accounting and financial systems to help facilitate effective
management planning and decision-making under the reform program. Assurances were obtained that
HUDC would, by July 31, 1998, enhance its cost allocation systems for each of its lines of business and also
establish budgeting and financial management systems to ensure full coverage of its assets and liabilities.



Annex 5
Page 4 of 12
15.   To carry out its new role, HUDC would adopt a number of alternative approaches. One approach
would be to auction off to the private sector the rights to develop HUDC-owned land in accordance with
specified development criteria, such as the mix of plot sizes and price ceilings for housing units. Another
approach would be to solicit partnerships with private developers of private land, whereby HUDC offers its
expertise to facilitate design, implementation and approval processes.
16.   Beginning in 1996, the performance of the institutional reform measures would be assessed mainly
on how well HUDC attracts and facilitates private sector development in accordance with targets for
HUDC-facilitated land and housing development schemes 'carried out by wholly private sector-owned
developers. Performance would be measured by the ratio "I" (percent) of HU-JDC-facilitated private sector
land developed relative to the total land developed by HIUDC (including HUDC-assisted private sector
schemes):
I (%) =  ( PSD ) / ( HUDC + PSD)
where
IIUDC  =  total of FHUDC land development projects put under implementation (i.e. contract
signed) during the concerned calendar year expressed in number of plots (or hectares of
row land using a density of 30 plots per hectare); and
PSD  =    total of land development projects put under implementation during the concerned
calendar year by wholly private sector owned developers as a result of HUDC
facilitating role including auctioned HUDC's land development rights.
In accordance with this formula, the targets for land developed under HUDC-sponsored private sector
schemes, relative to the total land developed under HUDC programs (including sponsored private schemes),
are shown in Table 5.1 below.
Table 5.1 HUDC Facilitator Role Targets
HUDC        J PRIVATE SECTOR  |          TOTAL         l
Density    Land     number    Land       number      Land     number  Ratio
Calendar (Plots per Development   of   Development    of    Development    of      I
Year   hectare)   hectares    plots    hectares   plots    hectares    plots   (%)
1996     30        29.3      880       7.3        220        36.7      1,100   20 %
1997     30        27.1      812       13.3       400        40.4      1,212   33 %
1998     30        23.2      695       28.3       850        51.5      1,545   S5 %
1999     30        17.3      518       36.7      1,100       53.9      1,618   68 %
2000     30        13.9      417       41.7      1,250       55.6      1,667   75 %
TOTAL    30         110.7     3,322     127.3      3,820      238.1     7,142
17.   To the extent that the minimums are not achieved in any one year, they would be rolled over and
added to the following year's targets. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that: (a) IHUDC would
take all measures necessary to achieve the above targets including, if necessary, the reallocation to private
sector development through auction or other transparent method, the development rights on HUDC sites;
and (b) it would no longer purchase or acquire, for development purposes, additional land exceeding an
aggregate of 50 hectares, except as approved by the Minister of Public Works and Housing. HUDC's own



Annex 5
Page 5 of 12
land development activities would be expected to decline over time. Graphs 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 illustrate the
expected impact of the reform measures on private sector participation in land development.
Graph 5.1 Private Sector Participation in Land Developnent
2,5000
o              cm                   co el o) a    c 
Year
Graph 5 2 Priv te Sector Perticipation in land Development
(Project targets)l
1  5000
.CaE Prvt Sector
500 ~ ~     ~      ~       ~      ~       0
1         ~~~95       96         97         98         99         2000
Year
l~~~~~~rp 5. Prvt SetrPiiain nLn   eeomn



Annex 5
Page 6 of 12
Graph 5.3 Share of Private sector in lAnd Development
(Project targts)
100-
800                           
6 0  -  - - - - - - - - - -
40 -I _L+ Private SectorI
20                    - --             ----  - -
0 
95         96          97          98          99         2000
Year
I    ..  ~~~~~~____________   __ __ ___     _______________________ .  __ _ _J
18.    The regulatory reforms aim to improve the environment for enabling the private sector real estate
industry to participate and compete in land and housing development for lower income households.
Performance of the project in meeting this objective would be measured against HUDC's performance in
preparing for and bringing about a revision of the laws and by-laws goveming zoning to rationalize land use.
In this regard, assurances were obtained during negotiations that, by December 31, 1996, the Govemment
would extend to the private sector, rights and privileges in land and housing development similar to those of
HUDC. Recently, however, the Government's Council of Ministers approved the regulatory reforms and
announced them in the media. In addition, assurances were obtained that, by December 31, 1998, the
Government would submit to Parliament, legislation designed to make zoning for land use more responsive
to market needs and to improve the formulation and implementation of housing policy. For this purpose,
HUDC would initiate in 1996 and complete by July 31, 1998, a comprehensive study of land use and urban
planning management regulations, for which it would carry out extensive prior consultations at national and
local levels.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 12
Key Performance Monitoring Indicators
19.    Implementation progress will be monitored using key performance monitoring indicators shown in
Table 5.2.
Table 5.2 - Key progress indicators
Indicator                                           Date
I     Secondary Mortgage Facility
1.1    Technical assistance contract award                                                January 1997
SMF operating procedures and information system
1.2    Complete SMF staffing                                                             December 1996
1.3    Complete first lenders survey.                                                     February 1997
(to survey their cost of funds, their rate and other terms for mortgage lending,
the amount of such lending and perhaps also their narrative perspectives)
1.4    First SMF bond issuance                                                           December 1997
1.5    Lenders survey No.2,3,4, and 5                                                     01/98 - 01/99
01/00 - 01/01
1.6    Accounting and Auditing Reports                                                    06/97 - 06/98   |
06/99 - 06/00
06/01



Annex 5
Page 8 of 12
Table 5.2 - Key progress indicators
(Continued)
Indicators                                         Date
2      Institutional and Regulatory Reform
2.1     Cabinet issue instruction granting full rights to the private sector to adopt      June 1996
and use HUDC's plot sizes and building standards.
2.2    H-UDC team to manage the reforms designated.                                       August 1996
2.3    Complete selection of at least 200 hectares of sites for low and moderate        September 1996
income housing for quick start-up of private sector development opportunities.
2.4     Workshop to explain HUDC's new mandate to the private sector and discuss the Public  November 1996
Private Partnership Process.
2.5     First Private sector land development project approved under the Public Private Partnership    November 1996
Process.
2.6    Technical Assistance Contract award                                               January 1997
- streamline HUDC organizational structure to further separate unrelated functions;
- departmentalize HUDC accounting system.
2.7    Technical Assistance Contract award                                                 May 1997
- land use, urban planning, building regulations comprehensive study
- observing existing development patterns, and
- design and implementation of housing and land markets monitoring system.
2.8   T First auction of HUDC land development rights to the private sector.              April 1997
2.9     Workshop on land use, urban planning and building regulation s to review study   January 1998
recommendations.
2.10    HUDC accounting system and organizational structure implemented.                 January 1998
2.11    Cabinet to approve Draft Legislation to revise land use, urban planning, and       June 1998
building regulations.
2.12    Cabinet to approve Draft Legislation to revise HUDC mandate.                      June 1998
2.13    Presentation to the Parliament of the following Draft Legislation:              December 1998
- Draft Legislation to revise land use, urban planning, and building regulations; and
- Draft Legislation to revise HUDC mandate
2.14    HUDC's report on the Public Private Partnership Process.                         06/97 - 06/98
06/99 - 06/00
-                                                 .                                          06/01



Annex 5
Page 9 of 12
Supervision Plan
20.    During the project implementation period, it is estimated that about 11 supervision missions would
be needed, with one large project inception mission initially to launch the project. Total staffweeks for
supervision is estimated to be on the order of 60 staffweeks distributed among a project team (task manager;
housing finance specialist; financial analyst; economist; urban planner; municipal engineer) and other
specialists. Project supervision would be based on an agreed set of project monitoring and development
impact indicators. Bank field supervision inputs are indicated in Table 5.3 below and total about 48
staffweeks.  These inputs are in addition to regular supervision needs at headquarters for handling
correspondence and reviewing/commenting on procurement actions, disbursement requests, progress
reports, annual audits, consultants' inception/draft final/final reports, etc., which are estimated to require
about 12 staffweeks in total, comprising about 7 staffweeks during the two first years of project
implementation and about 5 staffweeks during the remaining years. The other specialists indicated in Table
5.3 who may participate in supervision missions could include a mortgage market specialist, a financial
markets specialist, and an institutional development specialist.  This level of supervision inputs is
considered necessary because of the expected complexities associated with the start-up and operations of the
SMF, and also by the importance of close collaboration with the Govemment and HUDC in the
implementation of the institutional and regulatory reform component.
Table 5.3 - Forecast of Field Supervision Inputs
(Staffweeks)
Specialists:                                FY97    FY98    FY99    FY00    FY01    Total
Task Manager                                  4        3        2         2       3          14
Housing Finance Specialist                    3        3        2         2       2          12
Urban Planner/ Municipal Engineer             2        2        2         1        1          8
Financial Analyst                             I        -         I        -        1          3
pisbursement Specialist                       1        -         -        -                   I 1
Sub-Totals                                   11        8         7        5       7          38
Other Specialists (unallocated):                                                             I 0
Total                                                                                        48
Supervision Missions:                        (3)       (2)      (2)       (2)     (2)       (11)
Project Implementation Schedule
21.    Attachment 5.1 shows the project implementation schedule.



Annex 5
Page 10 of 12
Attachment 5.1, Page 1 of 3
_ .                                                                                      .                                            :): . : :.                                                                                        .            .       .        .         .           .:
a                      .                                         .-.     
_. .           .. . ...  . .. :.              .. . ..                    .... .. ... . -.. .. . ..  .. .. . ..,......   ... .. .... .. ......                                                        ...         .......   .. .. .... I..............   .......
a . .    .. ........... .... ..                                                                          ............... .   ..... .. ... . .....                                          ........               .....         .... . ... .. ... .........    ........ .... ..... ... ....
..          .. .  . .  ..   . .  .  .     ..              ...   .  . .                 .. .     .. .  .  . .  ..   .  ..  .  .    . .     ..     .. . . .                .   .  .  .  . . .   .  . ...           . . .  .   . .              A  . .   ..   . .  . .   . . ...  .  .  . .   . .  .
a ..               . ...........                   ....          .... . .....                            .. ... ...............                                               .....................                .... ......... ..   .....    .....   ..........
C.)
_..           .......................                                     ........   .. .....   ......... ......... ......... ...... ............   ........ ................ ... ....                                           ............. .........   ................... ................... ................... 
..........    ....._....    .... .... . .. ........ . .......... O                                                                                                     ..............   .........   ...........-                                                          ........
a.            . ..    ...... .. .. .. .. .. .:. .:....... .. .. . ..   . . ..... .  ... ..   ..... ...... ......                                                                                                      .....   .........                           ........
n~~~~~~~~.... ...  ..                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .
O,_                                                                                                                         ............................                         .                 .        ...... ......    ...... .   
C                                                                                                                                                                                -'  '-'   '--  ''-   ''- -'- '----''--~~~~- - -~ ----.----- r--- ------ ----.----.---.--- : .... .... .........--    _ .:-   _----*
_         .       .. .. .    ..  . .   .     .. .. .     .. . .    . . . . . .       ..................................                                                                              . .....                    .. . . . . .      . . ..;..                                .. . .     .  . . .      . .   . .
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
- _ (N                                 ?$  L   :                                                                  
g _ :~~~~~~~~-                                                                                                                  lb. :  -- .--- -,  -- :---:,... s..                                                                                ....-.. ...  ..
@   a   -  .                                :            -            .             .                                                                      :                                                                                  -             :~* 
ci                                                                                                                                                                                        .,                                                         +
:-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         A
~~~~~~~~~~    4'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
a~~~~~~~~~~
'A                                                                                                                                     I
96~~~~~~~~~~~
M                                                                                                                                                                                              'A
A.                                                                                                                                        I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:                                  -I 



Annex 5
Page 11 of 12
Attachment 5.1, Page 2 of 3
a~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..... .                .. ....      .. ...              . ..
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .             . . .   . . . . . . .   . . . .   . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   .           . f. . . .   . . . . . . .'
...        ..  .. . .. ..  .. . . ..     ....     .    ...... . .. ...    ... .  . .. . ...   ..     .........     .......  . ...  .     .. . -
0
aa 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                  .     .   .   .   .... .     ..   .. . .   ..     .    ..   3  ..     .     .. . . .   .. . ...  . . . .  ...   ....
i    0t                              *                         -.    -<      : 
01
.9~~~~~
ota                                     a l        "         It 11 I            "~
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. gI                     sI.I                              s                 sI    s3-rT



i   ff   S  ' f | j F ~~~~~~~l    (t   3 . ,   id
... .           ........              ..   .  ... .  ..         . .... ... . .. .                                                     .         ....         ...      ..
.      ...... . .................. . ..........                                  .......                       .                     ..................... .......................    .......................................    ........ .                                                  .... ...   
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..    ........... ... .. ......,                                                                                                                                      . ....            .         . .....
..._ ........                  ... .. ...                                       . 
.~~~~~~~~~.                                                    ...           .......      .......  ......              ....                                                       ........ -- .......                         -    -     - ...  ..... 
... ...... . ....... ........... ....                                          - . - - '                                                f                 -               -               --'                                                  -*O   _
.~~~~~~~~~~........ ,..........                                                                     .....  ......               .,;S......   ....  ..<>  .                ..  .. ..
.....   ..    ..--- - : - a. ,,. ...    ....................                                          ...                            .                          ...             ...     ..
t  11  .......... .    .                                                                                                                                         .   ..   ...                                                                                                                                          SO
.                                    ,           .    ..  .......                .......        ...     ...        .  .. ..._
C jo C aged I -5 potu3q3vU
iJo zi aged'ISuuqm
S xauur



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Project Cost Summary and Financing Plan
I.     The total project cost is estimated at about US$142.0 million equivalent, including an indirect
foreign exchange component of about US$19.8 million, or about 14 percent of total costs. The total project
costs include the estimated costs of: (a) a Secondary Mortgage Facility program of refinancing mortgages
(SMF refinancing program) aggregating about US$141.0 million equivalent (JD100.0 million) over a
project implementation period of five years; (b) the establishment costs of the SMF including equipment
and consulting services for training and technical assistance; and (c) technical assistance services and
training for HUDC to assist the implementation of institutional and regulatory reforms in the real sector.
Costs were estimated at November 1995 prices and include physical contingencies of 15 percent for the
SMF's equipment component. Price contingencies were calculated for the SMF establishment costs and
HUDC technical assistance components on the basis of 2.6 percent a year increase of foreign costs. The
foreign exchange costs of the SMF establishment costs and HUDC technical assistance components were
estimated at 70 percent of their total costs. The foreign exchange costs of the SMF refinancing program
(13.5 percent) were estimated assuming that about one-fifth of the loans pledged will be made for the
construction or expansion of housing, rather than the purchase of an existing house, and that their foreign
exchange costs would be financed by mortgages, rather than owner's equity, since the latter can be assumed
to be financing the land value in the first instance.
2.     The estimated cost of the project is summarized in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1 - Project Cost Estimate
Foreign as  % of
Percentage  Total
Project Components        Local  Foreign   Total Local  Foreign   Total    of      Base
JD million            USS million        Total    Costs
1. Secondary Mortgage Facility
1.1 SMF Refinancing Program       86.5   13.5   100.0  122.0   19.0    141.0    13.5    99.4
1.2 Equipment for the SMF          0.0    0.1      0.1   0.0    0.1       0.1    70.0      0.1
1.3 Technical Assistance to the SMF  .Q1    Q0.2         O 1Q    _.       0.4    70.0      0.3
Subtotal SMF Component     86.6   13.8   100.4  122.1   19.4    141.5    13.7    99.8
2. Institutional & Regulatory Reformrs
Technical Assistance to HUDC      0.1    0.2      0.3   0.1    0.3        0.4   70.0       0.2
Total Base Costs                   86.7   14.0   100.7  122.2   19.7    141.9    13.9    100.0
Physical Contingencies              0.0    0.0      0.0   0.0    0.0        0.0   70.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                 0.0    0.1      0.1   0.0    0.1        0.1    70.0     0.1
Total Project Cost                 86.7   14.1   100.8  122.2   19.8    142.0    13.9    100.1
3.     The Government would onlend to the SMF about US$19.6 million from the proceeds of the
proposed Bank loan of US$20.0 million (Loan) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement having terms and
conditions approved by the Bank. About US$19.0 million of the subsidiary loan would be provided to the
SMF as a line of credit to refinance the estimated foreign exchange component of mortgages originated by



Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
PFIs for the construction of new housing or for new renovations of existing housing. The mortgages
refinanced by the subsidiary loan are estimated to comprise at least one fifth of the total value of mortgages
refinanced by the SMF during the project implementation period. Private sector investors (mainly SSC at
the outset) would also contribute to the SMF refinancing program through the purchase of SMF bonds
(about US$122.0 million equivalent). About US$600,000 of the subsidiary loan would help to finance
equipment and technical assistance for the SMF (including contingencies). In addition, the Loan would
include about US$400,000 equivalent to help finance consulting services and technical assistance for
HUDC. Retroactive financing totaling US$200,000 equivalent is proposed for expenditures made after
August 1, 1995 in respect of technical assistance and equipment for the SMF and HUDC. The project
financing plan is presented in Table 2. Overall, the Loan would finance about 14 percent of the estimated
project cost.
4.     The project financing plan is summarized in Table 6.2.
Table 6.2 - Project Financing Plan
Filnancing Sources                   Local      Foreign        Total      % of
-___________ _   USS million          Total
Secondary Mortgage Facility                          0.02          -          0.02
Housing & Urban Development Corporation              0.01          -          0.01          -
Private Sector (Bond Investors)                     122.0          -         122.0        86
IBRD                                                  0.2          9 8        214
Total                           122.2        19.8        142.0       100
5.     Tables 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5 provide details on the equipment and technical assistance components of the
project.
Table 6.3 - Equipment for the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Equipment for the SMF          Quantity       Unit                    Unit
Cost        Total       Cost       Total
JD'000      JD'000     USS'000    US$'000
Computers and peripherals                  8           4           32         5.6         45.0
Other office technology equipment          8           2           16         2.8         22.5
Vehicles and spare parts                   3          15           45        21.1         63.3
Office Fuwniture                           3           5           15         7.0         21.1
Total                                             108                    152.0



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
Table 6.4 - Technical Assistance to the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Technical Assistance services to the SMF  Quantity  Unit                  Unit
Cost      Total        Cost          Total
JD'OOO     JD'000     US$'000       US$'000
Financial software                        1        42          42          59.1          59.1
Management Information System             1        42          42          59.1          59.1
Training, & overseas visits              20         5         100           7.0         140.7
Operating Procedures                      1         50         50          70.4          70.4
Legal and financial services              1         50         50          70.4          70.4
Total                                          284                      399.7
Table 6.5 - Technical Assistance to the Housing and Urban Development Corporation
Technical Assistance to HUDC     Quantity     Unit                    Unit
Cost      Total        Cost          Total
JD'000     JD'000     US$'000       US$'000
Consultancy services                      1        150        150        211.1          211.1
Training                                 20          5        100          7.0          140.7
Total                                          250                      351.8






Annex 7
Page I of 4
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
I.    The project would be implemented over a five-year period from the estimated date of loan
effectiveness, with a completion target date of September 30, 2001 (Annex 5). The commitment deadline
for the credit line would be March 31, 2001. The loan Closing Date would be March 31, 2002, six months
after the project completion date. The disbursement period of about 5 years or 20 quarters is shorter than
the country disbursement profile of 6.5 years or 26 quarters. This is deemed achievable because: (a) thiere
are no major civil works or equipment contracts; (b) the institutional reforms should be completed within
the first 2.5 years of the project; and (c) the subsidiary loan is small relative to anticipated demand.
2.    The proposed Bank loan will be disbursed against the project components as shown in Table 7.1
The projected disbursement profile for the Bank loan is shown in Figure 7.1. Disbursements under the
subsidiary loan would be made against documentation submitted by PFIs evidencing that the mortgages
being refinanced are for new housing or for new renovations of existing housing. For this purpose, PFIs
would be required to separate out and certify to the SMF, those mortgages for new or renovated housing that
are included in the packages of mortgages that they submit to the SMF for refinancing. Disbursement
percentages under the credit line would vary during the implementation period, beginning with 95 percent of
mortgages for new or renovated housing refinanced until US$4 million has been disbursed; declining to 75
percent until an additional amount of US$6 million has been disbursed; and 60 percent thereafter. The
projected volume of SMF mortgage refinancing is shown in Figure 7.2. The disbursement categories are
shown in Table 7.2.
Figure 7.1 - Disbursement Profile
2500
20.00
' 15.00 ,,;_-~
0 10.00
5.00
0.00
n nLO  1-         a       )  _.   Q a
Quarters



Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
Table 7.1 - Loan Disbursement Schedule
Estimated                         Disbursement Schedule                                Against
SMF Refinancing Program                                                                      Mortgages
for new
SMF resources                                           Cumulative                      housing or
from     from                                              DLisbursement        Against   renovation
Subsidiary   Bond                              Quartrly                          TA services   of existing
Loan   Issuances Total                                                        & Equipment   housing
JD m     JD m   JD m                          US m    USS m    Percentage        US$ m      US$ m ja
_      ~~Fiscal Year_91         
0.00     0.00    0.00    September 30, 1996   0.00      0.00       0.00%         0.00         0.00
0.00     0.00    0.00    December 31, 1996    0.00      0.00       0.00%         0.00         0.00
1.00     0.00    1.00      March31, 1997      1.46      1.46      7.31%          0.13         1.34
1.QQ   0 .00  LQ0           June 30, 1997               2.92      14.62%                      .LIU
LDQ      DM      2Q                                                                           2AZ
Fiscal Year 98
1.00     0.00    1.00    September 30, 1997    1.46     4.39      21.93%         0.13         1.34
1.46     2.20    3.66    December 31, 1997    1.67      6.06      30.28%         0.13         1.55
1.43     2.24    3.67      March31, 1998      1.64      7.69      38.46%         0.13         1.51
1      3    9L2E2  8 6     June 30, 1998  1   6Q        9.29      46.44%     1           4 LIZ
5.29     6:71   IL*0                                                             LW3 IQIZ
fi~aLY~afix
Fiscal Year 99
1.40     2.60    4.00    September 30, 1998    1.60    10.89      54.45%         0.13        1.48
1.50     3.50    5.00    December 31, 1998    1.39     12.28      61.41%         0.13        1.27
1.50     4.50    6.00      March 31, 1999     1.27     13.55      67.74%                     1.27
120      4m 8    60         June 30, 1999     L0I       14.56     72.81%                     L.0
L~o  I5A   ZLO                ~
Fiscal Year 00
1.50     6.00    7.50    September 30, 1999    1.27    15.83      79.14%                     1.27
1.13     6.38    7.50    December 31, 1999    0.95     16.78      83.89%                     0.95
1.13     6.38    7.50      March 31, 2000     0.95     17.73      88.64%                     0.95
I.       6.38&   2..        June 30, 2000               18.68     93.390/0                    LU
4*8 25.13   30.z00                       4LIZ                                            112 li
Fiscal Year 0 1
0.90     8.10    9.00    September 30, 2000   0.76      19.44     97.19%                      0.76
0.67     8.33    9.00    December 31, 2000    0.56     20.00      100.00%                     0.56
0.00     9.00    9.00      March 31, 2001     0.00     20.00      100.00%                     0.00
Om 0     LQ    LUQ          June 30, 2001     O        20.00      100.00%                     Om00
LE       33.43   3U.0                          1U                                am0         L.
19.33    80.67   100.00                       20.00                              1.00        19.00
mL     Disbursements under the subsidiary loan will be made against documentation submitted by PFIs evidencing that the
mortgages being refinanced are for new housing or renovations of existing housing.



Annex 7
Patge 3 of 4
Figure 7.2 - Fstimated SMF Refinancing Plan
160.00
140.00     --   -  - -
120.00  --  --     -  -
100.00   .---I-u a---
80.00
0                                                                          Su~~IF      F FI...&bsidiary Loan
F    I       I                 ~~~~~~~~Total SMFRefinancing Programi
60.00 -
40.00    F------
0.00
-  n    *n   r-    a, -          en    e     N     0
Quarters



Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
Table 7.2 - Disbursements Against Project Components
(US$)
Amount of                    Percent of
Loan                     Expenditures
Category                       Allocated                 to be Financed
(US$)
1. SMF Mortgage Refinancing         19,000,000  Disbursement percentages would vary during the
Program                                      implementation  period, beginning  with  95
percent of mortgages refinanced until US$4
million has been disbursed; declining to 75
percent until an additional amount of US$6
million has been disbursed; and to 60 percent
thereafter
2. Equipment for the SMF               100,000  100% percent of foreign expenditures, and 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost)
and 90 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
3. Technical Assistance to SMF         400,000  100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 95
percent of local expenditures
4. Technical Assistance to HUDC        400,000  100 percent of foreign expenditures, and 95
percent of local expenditures
5. Unallocated                         100,000
Total:                           20,000,000



Annex 8
Page 1 of6
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Economic Analysis of the Secondary Mortgage Facility
Introduction
1.    The Secondary Mortgage Facility (SMF) is intended to add a significant element to the evolving
Jordanian financial market, by serving as an intermediary between long-term lenders for housing and long-term
investors. The benefits of the SMF to long-term lenders should be reflected over time in the terns and
conditions under which banks would be willing to offer housing loans, thereby passing the benefits on to
household borrowers (viz., mortgagors). Quantitative estimates of selected, perceived economic and social
benefits of the SMF may be derived by estimating the value to lenders and households of having access to the
form of financial intermediation provided by the SMF.
Anticipated Benefits of the SMF
2.     Benefits would arise primarily from the SMF's ability to help participating financial institutions (PFls)
.reduce both interest rate risks and liquidity risks associated with their mortgage lending for housing. Currently,
banks manage interest rate risk by specifying that the rate on a mortgage loan can be changed at the bank's discretion
if its costs of funds changes. However, lenders have not attempted to use this discretion previously and there could
be difficulties in doing so. The SMF offers lenders an opportunity to more formally link the rate on housing loans to
the cost of funds, e.g., at a fixed spread over the cost of SMF funding.
3.     Lenders manage the liquidity risk of lending for housing by only lending for relatively short terms (generally
no more than 7 years) and limiting their overall housing lending.1 Even short-term commercial lending is not very
liquid and thus banks maintain unusually high overall liquidity (55 percent in October 1995 for the banking sector as
a whole). In principle, lenders could offer longer termns at rates high enough to compensate for the additional
liquidity, but in practice they do not offer a choice and simply limit their long-term lending by price and non-price
rationing. After the SMF begins to function and is perceived to be reliable, the liquidity risk of long-term housing
loans would be sharply reduced, permitting a reduction in the price and non-price barriers to longer-term borrowing.
4.     Benefits would arise for prospective mortgagors from competition among lenders causing them to pass
through the benefits from improved risk management. Prospective mortgagors should see a combination of lower
costs of funds and a longer term on the loans being offered, as well as greater interest among banks in pursuing more
lending for housing, since funds for such lending would be in ready supply.
5.     The value to consumers of these shifts in supply depends on the extent to which household borrowers are
currently constrained. Each household is facing a supply curve of funds that is flat out to the underwriting criteria of
the lenders and then becomes essentially vertical. Some households are borrowing less than the maximum possible,
others are paying various shadow costs to expand their borrowing (and implicitly facing an upward sloping supply
curve) and others, including many in the middle group, end up being non-price rationed.
'/ The only exception currently is the Housing Bank, which has a number of special privileges that reduce its chances of
ilhqWdity.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
6.     These alternative types of demand are illustrated in Figure 8.1. The initial supply curve for credit to the
individual is SI, where price is fixed out to Ql, then rises steadily as co-signers can be brought to bear, and then
becomes vertical, as non-price rationing hniitations become binding. This curve shifts down and out to S2 once the
SMF is firmly established. The impact on the consumer surplus of households is seen to vary across the different
types of demand, numbered in the order delineated above.
Effective
cost of
housing
credit
DI          SI         S2
D2
D3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~D
DI
Amount of
housing credit
to the individual
QI      Q2                               household
Figure 8.1:  Supply and Demand for Housing Credit to the Individual Household
7.     Households which would willingly borrow more than permitted currently have demand curves (e.g., DI)
which are intersecting the supply of credit curve at a point beyond where it goes vertical; i.e., they are constrained by
underwriting ratios and not by the explicit price of credit (the interest rate). Others may be at a point on a peculiar
part of the effective supply curve, where they are expanding borrowing at an implicit extra cost by calling on faiily
members and friends to serve as co-signers of the loan (e.g., D2). For both of these types of households, an
expansion in the amount they can borrow generates substantial welfare gains, because of the gap between what they
were willing to pay for credit and the explicit price of additional credit. In addition, any decline in the cost of
borrowing in general would expand their existing consumer surplus from borrowing.
8.     There are also those households which would not, at current interest rates, borrow more than pennitted if the
term or underwriting criteria were relaxed (e.g., D3). For these households, any decline in interest rate on a 7-year
loan would be a benefit, and any increase in borrowing that such a decline might engender would be valued at an
amount equivalent to only about half of the product of the decline in interest rate times the expansion in borrowing.
9.     In the case of DI and D2, the shift in S generates an increase in consumer surplus generally greater than
simply the decline in the costs of credit. The incremental borrowing may be valued substanially more than the
explicit market price, but these benefits are difficult to quantify. For example, the typical market-rate mortgage loan



Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
currntly carries an annual percentage rate of 13.5 percent and a repayment period of 7 years. If the interest rate is
matained but the term extended to 10 years, the maximum size loan would increase by 20 percent. The maximum
15-year loan would be 40 percent larger. However, there is no market-based information on how much more this
additional borrowing power is worth to curenly constrained households. An indirect indicator of consumer
williness is the approximate 50 basis points that mortgagors in the U.S.A. frequently pay for mortgage insurance
that enables them to buy more house by increasing their loan-to-value ratio from 80 percent to 95 percent.
10.   It is not possible in this context to establish an equivalent figure for Jordanian borrowers. The anecdotal
evidence is that most borrowers are borrowing the maximum permitted under current underwriting standards and
thus there are relatively few households with demnand curves such as D3. Since the usual loan-to-value ratio is well
below 50 percent, it seems likely that most are in category D I. In the absence of other evidence, it is assumed that all
borrowers are of this type and that they value the ability to borrow 20 percent more at an average of 50 basis points.
11.    It is difficult to predict how much the lenders might be willing to reduce their explicit price once the
presence of the SMF irnproves their risk management position. However, it appears that the gross operating margin
on housing loans is currently about 250 basis points, in contrast to a spread of 150-200 basis points in Westem
developed econonies. This would suggest the potential for a reduction of up to 50 basis points from a combination
of lower risks and greater competition.
12.   In addition to the direct benefits to lenders and borrowers, there are some external public benefits which
would also arise from improving the efficiency of investment and these should accrue to all participants in the
financial markets. In particular, Bank sector work has indicated the need for a more active debt market, but there is
relatively little Dinar-denominated government debt available in the market, and so far there has been no frequent
issuer of a low-risk, high-liquidity longer-term debt instrument. The SMF would help to fill this void by being a
relatively frequent issuer of low-risk debt securities (viz., bonds). Depending on market circumstances, many of
these securities may have rates fixed for 3, 5, or 7 years or more. Market conditions would be reflected in their rates
at the time of issuance. In addition, assuming some degree of trading is established, SMF bonds could provide a
reasonable benchmark for capital market conditions and transactions.
13.    Other benefits of the SMF are also likely to accrue, but they have not been included in the analysis here.
The SMF could help to induce greater public awareness of the importance of analyzing credit risks in the absence of
govemment guarantees, and also possibly to facilitate a reduction in the housing finance subsidies to low and
moderate income households that the Government has been channeling through a special window at the Housing
Bank (para. 19).
Costs of Intermediation
14.    The SMFNs costs of operation and of capital committed must be accounted for in detemuining net social
benefits. The costs of operation are difficult to estimate with certainty, especially as a percent of the SMF's loan
portfolio. To a great extent, the costs are independent of the volume of lending, while the volume of lending should
be very sensitive to small differences in costs. Thus, there is a high degree of uncertainty as to the equilibrium level
of costs per JD intermediated.
15.   In total, the financial projections given in Annex 4 suggest that, provided the SME is able to generate a
JDIOO million portfolio in 3-5 years, a spread of about 135 basis points would be needed to cover its costs. This
spread could decrease as the costs of bond issuance are brought down and leveraging increases.



Annex 8
Page 4 of 6
Net Social Benefits
16.   It is not clear solely from the perspective of the commercial viability of the SMF, described above and in
Annex 4, that the SMF would generate net economnic and social benefits. The commercial superiority of SMF
funding over deposits would be partly based on the fact that SMF funding would not fahe a 14 percent cash reserve
requirement imposed by the Central Bank of Jordan (CBJ) on deposits.2 The direct and indirect benefits of the SMF
need to be compared with the costs to detemine the economic rate of return separately from the issue of its financial
viability.
The Counterfactual
17.   Implicit in this analysis is the assumption that the housing finance market in Jordan would remain
unchanged in the absence of the SMF. To the extent that other adjustments could take place without the SMF, its
benefits are overstated. However, it is difficult to discem signs that the basic nature of the mortgage and bond
markets will change anytime soon in the absence of this project. Banks have reiterated their concem about the
illiquidity of mortgage lending, the real level of govenmment domestic debt outstanding is shrinking, and bank
syndications for raising medium-term funds have nearly completely replaced corporate bond issuances.
18.   It could be argued that a private sector entity would undertake to provide SMF services independently if the
market would value them highly enough. One reason that this event can be considered unlikely is the presence of the
extemal benefits to the financial market expected from the SMIF, benefits which cannot be captured by a totally
private entity (and which fomn the basis for CBJ support of the SMF). Another argument specific to Jordan is that
the private institutions with the best chance of promoting an SMF, namely the Housing Bank and the Arab Baik,
could reasonably view the SMW as undermining their competitive positions within the financial sector. But perhaps
most telling is the observation that nearly all SMFs in the world have required some degree of govemment support or
sponsorship.
19.    A more likely subtle interaction of the SMF with the Government's role in the economy may be the
facilitation of the political process of extricating the Govenmment from the continuing subsidy of housing lending to
low and moderate income households. In retum for offering smaller borrowers loans for up to 15 years at only 7
percent, the Housing Bank receives a blanket tax-exemption on all of its housing loans. Such lending is a long-
standing part of the special relationship that the Housing Bank has with the Government and which is expected to
continue for the near future, despite other shifts intended to level the playing field in commercial banking.
Estimation of the Economic Rate of Return
20.    A quantitative estimation of the econornic rate of return (ERR) for the SMF is given in Tables 8.1 and 8.2 to
this Annex. Table 8.1 sumnmrizes the main assumptions, and Table 8.2 provides the projected results, which are
also based on the financial projections given in Annex 4. It has been assumed that the share of all mortgage loans in
Jordan that are refinanced by the SMF would increase and then stabilize at 50 percent after 5 years. In addition,
during the first five years, the average term of a new loan is assumed to lengthen from 7 to 10 years.
2 / It is unlikely that the SMF would be financially viable without some kind of subsidy or other advantage, because it
is essentially a public good. All lenders would benefit from the potential of refinancing their housing loans, but
would not have to actually do so (and bear the cost) in order to enjoy this benefit. In this case, it may generate
large net social benefits but still not be financially viable.



Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
Table 8.1: Projected Volumes of Lending Activity
(JD million)
Year I   Year2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year6   Year 7   Year8   Year 9    'ear 10
Existing market loans            50       45       39       32      25       15        0        0        0        (
Existing subsidized loans (PV)   50       48       45       41      36       32       26       20       15       1
Nev loans Year 1                 40       36       32       27      22       16        9        0        0        0
Nex loans Year 2                         50       46       42      38       33       28       11        5        0
New loans Year 3                                   60       56      52       47       42       33       24       15
New loans Year 4                                            70      67       62       57       51       42       32
New loans Ycar 5                                                    80       76       71       66       5X       48
New loans Ycar 6                                                             83       79       74       68       61
New loans Year 7                                                                      87       82       77       71
New loans Year 8                                                                               90       95       80
New loans Year 9                                                                                        94       89
New loans Year 10                                                                                                97
End-Year balance                 140     179      222      269      319     363      398      427      469      503
Table 8.2: Net Real Benefits to Banks, Borrowers and the Bond Market
(JD million)
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10
Inflation rate = 4 %0/
Cumulative deflator                  1.000   1.040   1.082   1.125   1.170   1.217   1.265   1.316   1.369    1 423
Real value of initial loans outstandg  100      89      78      65       52      39      21       15      11         7
Decline in liquidity risk premium    0.20    0.30    0.40    .050      050    0 50    0.50    0 50    0.50        0.50
Value of longer terms                         0.20    0.30    0.40    0.50    0 50    0.50    0 50    0.5(        05 '
Real value of- benefits for:
lre-existing loans                 0.200   0.268   0.311   0.324   0.261   0.193   0.103   0.076   0 055    0 035
New loans Ycar 1                    0.080   0.105   0.118   0.121   0.094   0.064   0034   0.000   0.000    (0000
New loans Year 2                             0.240   0.255   0.261   0.224   0.187   0 152   0.059   0 026    ( 000
New loans Year 3                                     0.388   0.432   0.353   0.308   0.266   0.201   0.140   (0084
New loans Year 4                                             0.560   0.512   0.461   0.408   0.349   0 276    0.204
New loans Year 5                                                      0.684   0 625   0.563   0.499  () 427    0 3.37
Ne loans Year 6                                                              0 684   0.625   0.563   0 499    0 427
New loans Year 7                                                                      0.684   0.625   0 563    0 499
New loafis Year   c                                                                            0.684   0 625    0 S63
New loa-ns Year 9                                                                                      (0 694    () 625
NeN loans Year 10                                                                                                () 084
'Fotal for mortgages                0.280   0.614   1.072   1.699   2.127   2.521   2.834   3.054   3.2')3    3 4 57
lleal issuancesotfCorporate bonds      20      43       68      95      125     1 35    143      148     150       1 50
Reduced bond intermediation costs    0.020   0.043   0.068   0.095   0.125   0.135   0.143   0.148   0.150    0. I15()
Real value for total benefits       0.300   0.656   1.140   1.794   2.252   2.656   2.976   3 202   3.443    3 6()7
RZcal valuco SSX costs (proforma)   0.298   0.366   0.477   0.586   0.724   0.763   0 787   0.802   0.S29   (0 846
Net real benefits from SMF          0.002   0.290   0.663   1.208   1.529   1.893   2.189   2.400   2 614    2 761
Internal Rate of Return            20.4 percent
21.      In the base case, the perception of increased liquidity is presumed to grow progressively, with a value of 20
basis points applied to it initially, growing to 50 basis points in the fourth year. This full benefit is assumed to apply
to the existing stock of loans that qualify for refinance, even if they are not actually refinanced. Thus, the lenders
enjoy a wvmdfall benefit from the reduction in risk on their existing portfolio. Meanwhile, competition should causc
them to offer longer terms and lower rates on new loans.



Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
22.     As the loan tcrms offered by lenders arc lcngthcncd. it is assumed that the 20 perccnt increase in borrou%ing
permitted by extcnding the term  from 7 to 10 years is wvorth 50 basis points to all borrowcrs. In addition, it is
assumed that the improved lending conditions and compctition steadily increase the volume of lending that the banks
are doing, cvcntually doubling it ovcr the 5 vears.
23.     Finally, it is also assumed that the activity in the market for SMF bonds gencratcs information that is useful
for raising othcr long-tcrm crcdits. The assumed cffcct of this infomiation is to reduce the cost of issuing long-term
corporate debt by 10 basis points.
24.    Table 8.2 is calculated in deflated temLs, adjusting for the fact that the projections in Anncx 4 assume a 4
pcrcent rate of inflation (e.g., SMF wages arc assumed to risc by 5 pcrccnt annually). Thus, the rate of retum
calculation is net of this inflation. The calculation is carried out for a 25 . car period starting wvith the capitalization
of JD5 million in ycar 0. Thc resulting estimated ERR for the base case is about 20.4 perccnt. If the assumed
bcncfit to the corporate bond markct is left out, the ERR is about 19.4 pcrcent.
25.    This estimate is sensitive to both the size and timing of the costs and bcncfits. At one extreme, the benefits
to the banks from incrcased liquidity and to the consumcrs from increased access to funds could be half of that
assumed in the base casc; i.e., only 25 basis points in each casc. This reduces the ERR to about 10.1 percent.
Altcrnativcly, if the only value to the constumers from longer terms is halved to 25 basis points, the ERR falls to
about 17.2 percent (the interest ratc is still assumed to fall by 50 basis points due to reduccd nsks).
26.    These results partly depend on a doubling in the volume of lending over the course of 5 years. If instead the
volume is assumcd to increasc at a more modest pacc, say 25 pcrcent ovcr 5 years, then the ERR in the base case is
rcduced to 15.4 percent. On the positive side, howcvcr, if terms offered by lenders are extended all the wav to 15
ycars, as is common in many countries, the bcnefits to borrowers from being ablc to borrow more would probably bc
greater than the 50 basis points assumed in the base case.
27.    Other downside risks includc: (a) the possibility that, whilc lendcrs may value having the potential to
refinancc thcir loans, relatively few actually do so and the SMF proves not to bc commercially viable; (b) lenders
place no value on the improved liquidity of thcir mortgage portfolios, because they have been very conservative and
have taken on little risk, and (c) the Governmcnt does not removc the subsidics to loans made by the Housing Bank,
thus reducing or eliminating the net increasc in loan terms on markct-ratc lcnding duc to the increase in liquidity.
3    This is a gray area. In the past, the HB has been able to offer longer terms and lower rates for loans because it
has received both fiscal and liquidity benefits from the Government. The liquidity benefits are already being
reduced, but not the fiscal bcnefits. On the other hand, it appears that, in return for the fiscal bencfits, the HB
would continuc to offer the longer terms as well as the lower rates, despite the illiquidity. Presumably, if the
fiscal benefits arc ended also, as planncd, then both the term and the rates would revert to market, c.g., about
13.5 perccnt for 7 years, in the absence of the SMF.



Annex 9
Page 1 of I
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
HOUSING FINANCE AND URBAN SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
Housing and I Irban Sicctor Reform  Project Study. Final Report, March 1996, by Llewelyn-Davies,
EDL! Interinational. Almtustasiar, and Arthur Andersen (Consultants), under the oversight of the
IHlousing and I Jrhan D)evelopment Corporation (HUDC):
-      FL:uiictioiial and Financial Parameters of a Private Production Entity (PPE) for Land and
I 0Lusing Dc\ clopmenit
-      Finanicial lPortlolio of HlJDC'
-      IllL)C's l and I loldings
-      [)isposition ofl lUlDC Activities and Staff
-      Facilitating Private Sector Development - Action Plan for Regulatory Reform
2.     Project Wkork ing lPapers:
S econdar\ Molrtgage F-acility (SMF): Modalities of Operation and Proforma Finanicial
Pro jections
SFSMI Key Staff'aild Job Dcscriptions
Flousing Finance in Jordan, Constraints and Proposed Solutions
-      'I'erms of Referenice for Technlical Assistance to the SMF
-      lInstitutionial and Regulatory Reforms (Land Use and Urban Planning Regulations and
IIIJDC proposed new mandate)
-      Termis of Ref'erenice for Technical Assistance to HUDC (land use and urban planning
regulationis: housilig arid land markets monitoring system)
-      Terns of Ret'erence for Technilcal Assistance to HUDC (streamline organizational
stricture, arid departmentalize accounting system)






3 5                  38,                   37                   Q
32                z,,S       ;          
OA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~A
\JORDAN
  :;  W                \'t'           HOUSING FINANCE
s   StkFnlrLnf             '\AND  URBAN  SECTOR                              
-I                                         \          ~~~~~~~REFORM PROJECT 
j Ai T,; l.                      -
j  r                            7
5        t A,rqrP !
-  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEtJORDANEBJr  RE
j,~~~d h W"I ,- -,o,
-                           u            HOUSNATIONAL FAINAN C
jAI>               /                                  SELECTED -  AND   URBAN  SECTOR^NS
I.                                        REORM PROJEC
2 - / AT, L-  '            OALCAS j
1(1       25    ')   '     /0    1 5htMT
/7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~C /' 0tORT SELECTED l                  IES ANION
:-  fl!.: ls / sC}n 1/.EXPRESSWAYS
S~~~~~~~~~                                                       ROADSa 
7                    _ _  ~  ~  ~ ~  ~












