Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4071 JO
                              Loan Agreement
              (Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project)
                                  between
                       THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                    and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                                AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated September 4, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4071 JO
                               LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 1996, between THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM
OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   the Bank has received a letter, dated June 25, 1996, from
the Borrower describing a program (the "Program") of objectives,
policies and actions designed to enhance its housing finance system
and to increase the role of the private sector in developing land and
housing for lower income households;
      (C)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Secondary
Mortgage Facility ("SMF") with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the SMF a
portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and SMF;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
Page  2
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May 30,
1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association
of SMF dated June 5, 1996, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Beneficiary" means a household to which a PFI has made or
proposes to make a Mortgage Loan for financing of the cost of purchase
or construction of a new housing unit or renovation of an existing unit;
      (c)   "HUDC" means the Borrower's Housing and Urban Development
Corporation, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 28 dated
April 1992;
      (d)   "MPWH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and
Housing, or any successor thereof;
      (e)   "Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between the SMF and each PFI (as such term is hereinafter defined)
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "PFI" means any participating financial institution which
meets the eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement and has been designated by the SMF as a mortgage originating
and servicing institution;
      (g)   "Privately Owned Entity" means an enterprise in which the
majority of the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest
is not owned or controlled by the Borrower or any of its agencies or
by any entity owned or controlled by the Borrower or any of its
agencies;
      (h)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the SMF of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (i)   "SMF" means the Secondary Mortgage Facility, a financial
institution organized and existing in the territory of the Borrower
pursuant to the Companies Law No. 1 of 1989 for the purpose of pro-
viding a source of medium and long-term finance for housing;
      (j)   "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "Mortgage Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a PFI to a Beneficiary in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
secured by a lien upon residential housing and which meets the
eligibility criteria set forth in Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement;
and
      (l)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SMF pursuant to Section 3.01 (c)
of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
Page  3
an amount equal to twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for: (i) payments made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) by PFIs under Mortgage Loans in respect of which the
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A (2) and B
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of Part A and Part B of
the Project, open and maintain in U.S. Dollars two special deposit
accounts in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate
plus LIBOR Total Spread.
      (b)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)    "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
                   including the date of this Agreement to, but
                   excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring
                   thereafter, and after the initial period, each
                   period from and including an Interest Payment Date
                   to, but excluding the next following Interest
                   Payment Date.
            (ii)   "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
                   Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
            (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period,
                   the London interbank offered rate for six-month
                   deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such
                   Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial
                   Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment
                   Date occurring on or next preceding the first day
                   of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined
                   by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
            (iv)   "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest
                   Period: (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
                   (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average margin,
                   for such Interest Period, below (or above) the
                   London interbank offered rates, or other reference
                   rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the
                   Bank's outstanding borrowings or portions thereof
                   allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans
                   or portions thereof made by it that include the
                   Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                   expressed as a percentage per annum.
      (c)   The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
      (d)   Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
Page  4
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less
than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The
basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply
to the Loan.
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Part B of the Project with due
                   diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative and financial practices
                   and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
                   facilities, services and other resources required
                   for such Parts of the Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of its
                   other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
                   Borrower shall take all action necessary or
                   appropriate to create the enabling environment for
                   the SMF to perform its obligations set forth in
                   the Project Agreement, and shall not take any
                   action which would prevent or interfere with such
                   performance.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1), (2) and (3) of the
table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to
the SMF under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the SMF, under terms and conditions which shall
have been approved by the Bank and which shall include the terms and
conditions set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and consultants' services required for Part B
of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
Page  5
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by the SMF pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04 For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future
operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                   the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited,
                   in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                   any case not later than six (6) months after the
                   end of each such year, the report of such audit
                   by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information
                   concerning said records and accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                   with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                   or payment out of the Special Accounts was made,
                   all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
                   receipts and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                   records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included
                   in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
                   of this Section and that the report of such audit
                   contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
Page  6
                   whether the statements of expenditure submitted
                   during such fiscal year, together with the
                   procedures and internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                             Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      (b)   the SMF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement;
      (c)   as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that SMF will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of SMF or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the
Borrower and the SMF.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters,
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the SMF, and is legally binding upon the SMF in accordance
with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by the Borrower and SMF and is legally binding upon the
Borrower and the SMF in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
               Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agree-
ment, the Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
Page  7
the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Planning
            P. O. Box 555
            Amman
            The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
            Cable address:                        Telex:
                   Ministry of Planning           21319JO
                   Amman
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                        Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD                      248423 (MCI) or
                   Washington, D.C.                64145 (MCI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, and Amman, Jordan as of the day and year first above written.
                        THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                        By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                           RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Inder Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in           Expenditures
                                Dollar                 to be
      Category                 Equivalent)            Financed
(1)   Mortgage Loans under     19,000,000           95% of amounts
Page  8
      Part A (1) of the                             paid by PFIs under
      Project                                       Mortgage Loans
                                                    until $4,000,000
                                                    has been disbursed;
                                                    75% of amounts
                                                    so paid until an
                                                    additional $6,000,000
                                                    has been disbursed;
                                                    and 60% of amounts
                                                    so paid thereafter
(2)   Software and                100,000           100% of foreign ex-
      Equipment under                               penditures, 100% of
      Part A (2) of the                             local expenditures
      Project                                       (ex-factory cost) and
                                                    90% of local ex-
                                                    penditures for other
                                                    items procured locally
(3)   Consultants'                 300,000          100% of foreign ex-
      Services under                                penditures and 95%
      Part A (2) of the                             of local expenditures
      Project
(4)   Consultants'                 300,000          100% of foreign ex-
      Services under                                penditures and 95%
      Part B of the                                 of local expenditures
      Project
(5)   Unallocated                  300,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                 20,000,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 on account of payments
made for expenditures under Category (2); in an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $50,000 on account of payments made for expenditures
under Category (3); and in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$50,000 on account of payments made for expenditures under Category (4)
may be made for expenditures before that date but after August 1, 1995.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures for
goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (b) for
expenditures for services under contracts for the employment of
consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent; (c) for
expenditures for services under contracts for the employment of
individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent; or (d) for payments
made by PFIs under Mortgage Loans, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are: (a) to assist the Borrower in
promoting medium and long-term market-based financial flows into the
Page  9
mortgage market by providing PFIs with a source of liquidity for their
medium and long-term lending for mortgages; (b) to facilitate compe-
tition in market-based mortgage lending; and (c) to improve the enabling
environment for private sector development of land and housing produc-
tion.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.    Provision by the SMF of medium and long-term financing to PFIs
for Mortgage Loans on owner-occupied and rental residential housing
which satisfies the requirements of Schedule 3 to the Project
Agreement.
2.    Carrying out of a program to improve the institutional capabi-
lities of the SMF to provide medium and long-term financing for the
housing sector through staff training, overseas visits, introduction
of a management information system, equipment, and provision of legal
and financial services to develop the SMF's operating procedures.
Part B
1.    Carrying out of a program of regulatory reform in the housing
sector to increase development of land and housing by the private
sector for low and moderate income households through: (i) granting
full rights to the private sector to adopt and use the more affordable
plot sizes and building standards developed and used by HUDC; (ii)
increasing the availability of land zoned for small plot sizes; and
(iii) revising urban planning, land use and building regulations to
promote more efficient use of land and reduce construction costs.
2.    Carrying out of a program to transform HUDC from a public sector
producer of serviced land to a facilitator and promoter of private
sector development of land and housing for low and moderate income
households.
                                  * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                      Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)
      January 15, 2002                     430,000
      July 15, 2002                        440,000
      January 15, 2003                     455,000
      July 15, 2003                        465,000
      January 4, 2004                      480,000
      July 15, 2004                        495,000
      January 15, 2005                     510,000
      July 15, 2005                        525,000
      January 15, 2006                     540,000
      July 15, 2006                        555,000
      January 15, 2007                     570,000
      July 15, 2007                        585,000
      January 15, 2008                     605,000
      July 15, 2008                        620,000
      January 15, 2009                     640,000
      July 15, 2009                        655,000
      January 15, 2010                     675,000
      July 15, 2010                        695,000
      January 15, 2011                     715,000
      July 15, 2011                        735,000
      January 15, 2012                     755,000
      July 15, 2012                        780,000
Page  10
      January 15, 2013                     800,000
      July 15, 2013                        825,000
      January 15, 2014                     845,000
      July 15, 2014                        870,000
      January 15, 2015                     895,000
      July 15, 2015                        925,000
      January 15, 2016                     950,000
      July 15, 2016                        965,000
                                SCHEDULE 4
      Procurement and Consultants' Services for Part B of the Project
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
      International Shopping
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
Page  11
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                            Implementation Program
1.    (a)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination of the
Project and implementation of the Program, the Borrower shall continue
to maintain the Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee, chaired by the
Minister of Public Works and Housing and with representation from the
Ministries of Planning; Finance; Industry and Trade; Municipalities,
Rural Affairs and the Environment; Agriculture; Administrative
Development; the Central Bank; and HUDC.
      (b)   The functions of said Steering Committee shall include,
inter alia, the execution of the institutional and regulatory reforms
described in the Program, and responsibility for investigation and
recommendation of solutions to issues arising in the course of carrying
out the Project.
2.    (a)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of Part A of the Project, the Central Bank of Jordan shall
establish and maintain a Project Implementation Unit with the
responsibility for preparation of the reports referred to in Section
9.07 of the General Conditions, and in Paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
      (b)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the
execution of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain a Project Implementation Unit within HUDC with the respon-
sibility for preparation of the reports referred to in Section 9.07
of the General Conditions, and in Paragraph 8 of this Schedule.
3.    The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1996, extend to the private
sector, rights and privileges in land and housing development similar
to those of HUDC.
4.    The Borrower shall cause HUDC to:
      (a)   establish by September 30, 1996 and thereafter maintain
the organizational unit dedicated to facilitate private sector
development of land and housing for lower income households;
      (b)   purchase or acquire no more than an aggregate of 50
hectares of additional land for development purposes except as
approved by the Minister of the MPWH;
      (c)   by July 31, 1998, enhance its cost allocation systems,
satisfactory to the Bank, for each line of business, including
production activities, mortgage portfolio operations, land bank,
rental real estate holdings, policy formulation and monitoring of
land and housing markets, and private sector development; and
establish budgeting and financial management systems to ensure full
coverage of all assets and liabilities; and
      (d)   by July 31, 1998, complete, under terms of reference
agreed with the Bank, a comprehensive study of land use and urban
planning management regulations.
5.    The Borrower shall cause HUDC to attain the following targets
for the development of land for low income housing by Privately
Owned Entities, including, if required to meet such targets, the
reallocation of development rights on HUDC sites through auction or
other method satisfactory to the Bank: (i) in 1996, the greater of
Page  12
220 housing plots or 20 percent of total land plots for which
contracts have been signed during such year; (ii) in 1997, the greater
of 400 housing plots or 33 percent of total land plots for which
contracts have been signed during such year; (iii) in 1998, the
greater of 850 housing plots or 55 percent of total land plots for
which contracts have been signed during such year; (iv) in 1999, the
greater of 1100 housing plots or 68 percent of total land plots for
which contracts have been signed during such year; and (v) in 2000,
the greater of 1250 housing plots or 75 percent of total land plots
for which contracts have been signed during such year. If, for any
year, the target for the minimum number of plots to be developed by
Privately Owned Entities has not been attained, the target for the
following year will be increased by the amount of such shortfall.
6.    The Borrower shall present to its Parliament, by December 31,
1998, proposed legislation, which the Bank agrees is sufficient, to
require zoning for land use to be more responsive to market needs
and to improve the formulation of housing policy and the implementa-
tion thereof.
7.    (a)   The Borrower shall ensure that: (i) the SMF's bonds are
exempted from limits imposed by the Company Law upon the issuance of
corporate debt; (ii) income derived from SMF bonds is exempted from
taxation; (iii) the SMF's bonds are eligible to serve as liquidity
reserve holdings of banks and would be risk-weighted at 20% for the
purpose of calculating capital adequacy ratios of a given bank which
holds the SMF's bonds; and (iv) the SMF's loans to financial insti-
tutions are treated as interbank lending for regulatory purposes.
      (b) The Borrower shall ensure, by December 31, 1996, that
streamlined procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for the registration
and transfer of liens shall apply to the SMF.
8.    Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
Sections 9.01 and 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions, the Borrower
shall furnish the following reports, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank may reasonably request:
      (a)   within one month after the end of each reporting period,
quarterly reports on the progress achieved in the execution of the
Project, in accordance with indicators agreed upon with the Central
Bank of Jordan and the Bank, with respect to Part A of the Project,
and in accordance with indicators agreed upon with HUDC and the Bank,
with respect to Part B of the Project;
      (b)   on or about June 1, 1998, a report integrating the results
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-
paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of
the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof
during the period following such date; and
      (c)   review with the Bank, by July 1, 1998, or such later date
as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in sub-paragraph (b)
above, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of
the said report and the Bank's views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means with respect to Part A
of the Project, Categories (1), (2) and (3) and with respect to Part B
of the Project, Category (4), all as set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means with respect to Part
Page  13
A of the Project, expenditures: (i) in respect of payments made by PFIs
for Mortgage Loans under Part A (1) of the Project; and (ii) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part A (2) of
the Project; and with respect to Part B of the Project, expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for Part B of the
Project, all to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means with respect to the
special account to be established under Part A of the Project an
amount equivalent to $2,000,000 and with respect to the special account
to be established under Part B of the Project, an amount equivalent to
$50,000, to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in such
Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals of the respective
Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of an Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of such Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
in the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Accounts at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                   and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                   4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                   respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                   the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                   on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                   Account and deposit into the Special Accounts
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Accounts for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Accounts, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Accounts:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Page  14
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Accounts;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and tothe extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a) If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Accounts: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Accounts (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Accounts will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such out-
standing amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
            Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
1.    The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (c) to this
Agreement.
2.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the equi-
valent in Jordanian Dinars (determined as of the date or respective
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or payment out of the
Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so with-
drawn or paid out, on account of: (i) the Mortgage Loans under Part
A (1) of the Project; and (ii) the goods and services under Part A
(2) of the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
3.    The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged interest on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a
market rate of interest. The methodology for calculating the market
rate in effect from time to time will be agreed between the Borrower
and the Bank.
Page  15
4.    The SMF shall repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan
in accordance with an amortization schedule similar to that for the
Loan set forth in Schedule 3 hereto. Debt service on the Subsidiary
Loan shall be subordinated to payments of the SMF on its outstanding
bonds.
5.    The Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain provisions
pursuant to which the SMF shall undertake to:(i) enter into
Participation Agreements with PFIs on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement; and
(ii)  maintain procedures, records and accounts adequate to monitor
and record the progress of Part A of the Project.
6.    The Borrower shall have the right to:
      (i)   suspend the right of the SMF to disbursements under the
            Subsidiary Loan upon failure by the SMF to perform its
            obligations under the Project Agreement and the
            Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      (ii)  terminate the right of the SMF to the use of the
            proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan if the other obligations
            of the SMF shall have become due and payable prior to
            the agreed maturity thereof.
7.    At its option, the Borrower may decide to make a contribution
to capital of the SMF for expenditures under Categories (2) and (3)
of the table set forth in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement.
