Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4071 JO
                             Project Agreement
           (Housing Finance and Urban Sector Reform Project)
                                  between
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                     and
                       SECONDARY MORTGAGE FACILITY
                        Dated September 4, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4071 JO
                           PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 4, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the SECONDARY MORTGAGE
FACILITY (SMF).
      WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between The
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that
the SMF agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the SMF, a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be relent to the SMF on the terms and
conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the SMF, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obliga-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE I
                               Definitions
Page  2
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                               ARTICLE II
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. The SMF declares its commitment to the objectives of
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial
and housing practices and in accordance with the Program, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for Part A of the
Project.
      Section 2.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out Part A (1) of
the Project, the SMF shall relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan allocated from time to time to Category
(1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan
Agreement, under Participation Agreements to be entered into between the
SMF and each of the PFIs, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include those set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
      (b)   the SMF undertakes that only Mortgage Loans made in accor-
dance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement will be eligible for
financing under the Participating Agreements.
      (c)   the SMF shall exercise its rights in relation to each PFI
under the respective Participation Agreement in such manner as to: (i)
protect the interests of the Bank and of the SMF; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
      Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for Part A (2) of
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.04. (a) The SMF shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part A of the
Project.
      (b)   For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions
and without limitation thereto, the SMF shall:
            (i)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
                  Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6)
                  months after the Closing Date or such later date as
                  may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
                  and the Bank, a plan for achieving the objectives of
                  Part A of the Project; and
           (ii)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
                  views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 2.05. The SMF shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the SMF shall not take or concur in any action which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Articles of Association of the SMF shall not be amended.
      Section 2.07. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Page  3
terms of all of the SMF's loans to PFI's, whether financed by the
Subsidiary Loan or not, shall be the same as those set forth in
Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
      (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the terms of all
of the mortgage loans to be refinanced by the SMF shall be made in
accordance with paragraphs 2, 3 (a), 3 (b) and 4 of Schedule 3 to the
Project Agreement.
      Section 2.08. (a) The SMF shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part A of
the project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Loan.
      (b)   The SMF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by SMF of its obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                   Management and Operations of SMF
      Section 3.01. The SMF shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with the Program and sound administrative,
financial and housing practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The SMF shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its
operations and financial condition and the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project.
      (b)   The SMF shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section, and its records, accounts
                   and financial statements (balance sheets, statements
                   of income and expenses and related statements) for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
                   by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
                   case not later than six (6) months after the end of
                   each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
                   statements for such year as so audited (B) the report
                   of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in
                   such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                   requested and (C) the auditor's management letter or
                   other reports which the auditors may provide to SMF
                   management; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
                   said records, accounts and financial statements as
                   well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination;
                         Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on
the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Page  4
      Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and
of the SMF thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank
shall promptly notify the SMF thereof.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue
in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension
under the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                           Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be
given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties
contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or
request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to
the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at
such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INTBAFRAD               248423 (MCI)
                   Washington, D.C.         64145 (MCI) or
      For the SMF:
            Chairman of the Board
            Jordan Mortgage Refinancing Company
            P.O. Box 37
            Amman, Jordan
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   BANKMARKAZI             21250
                   Amman, Jordan
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and
any document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement
on behalf of the SMF, or by the SMF on behalf of the Borrower under the
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by the Managing Director or
such other person or persons as the Managing Director shall designate
in writing, and the SMF shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counter-
parts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one
instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, and Amman, Jordan as of the day and year first above written.
                               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                               By /s/ Inder Sud
Page  5
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                               SECONDARY MORTGAGE FACILITY
                               By /s/ Michel Marto
                                               Authorized Representative
                               SCHEDULE 1
     Procurement and Consultants' Services for Part A (2) of the Project
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     General
      Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and
the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     Procurement Procedures
      International Shopping
      Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
Page  6
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to:
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equi-
valent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 2
            Terms and Conditions of Participation Agreements
1.    Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule shall apply for
the purposes of Paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Project Agreement.
2.    Loans to PFIs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan: (a)
shall be denominated, and their interest, principal and other charges
be payable, in Jordanian Dinars; (b) shall be collateralized by Mortgage
Loans with a remaining term of at least 140 percent of the term of the
loan being extended by the SMF to such PFI; and (c) shall be market
determined, and in the aggregate shall be made in a manner that minimizes
interest rate risk.
3.    The SMF's loans to PFIs will, at the option of SMF, be for five,
seven, or ten year terms, and, upon amendment of Article 141 of the
Companies Act, to permit the SMF to issue debt securities for shorter
periods, for three year terms, or such shorter terms as the Bank and
the SMF shall agree to. The principal amount of each loan to a PFI
shall be repaid in full upon maturity of such loan, without repayment
of any principal before maturity.
4.    A Participation Agreement may be entered into with a financial
institution that is a Privately Owned Entity, duly established and
operating under the laws of the Borrower, provided that the SMF shall
have determined that such financial institution:
      (a)   is in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements
applicable to its operations, including all applicable banking or
financial company laws, capital adequacy requirements, and monetary
regulations;
      (b)    has had its financial statements, for its fiscal year
preceding the year within which its respective Participation Agreement
is to be entered into, audited by independent auditors with the report
thereof being unqualified;
      (c)   has a sound financial structure and satisfactory financial
performance, and the organization, management, staff and other resources
required for the efficient carrying out of its operations; and
      (d)   has adequate technical and administrative capacity and
satisfactory operating policies and procedures for appraisal and
monitoring of a Mortgage Loan portfolio and for carrying out of its
activities to be undertaken under the Project.
5.    A Participation Agreement may be entered into with a newly
established financial institution which has demonstrated, on the basis
of an institutional development plan satisfactory to the SMF and the
Bank, that it has the organization, management, staff and other
resources required to comply with the requirements set forth in
subparagraphs (c) and (d) of Paragraph 4 above.
6.    Each Participation Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant
to which each PFI shall:
      (a)   continue to be duly established and operating under the
laws of the Borrower;
Page  7
      (b)   carry out its operations in accordance with the relevant
provisions of all applicable banking or financial company laws of the
Borrower, capital adequacy requirements and monetary regulations;
      (c)   conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound
financial principles and practices and in accordance with its
constitutional instruments and statement of policy, if applicable;
      (d)   maintain a financial and operating policy acceptable to the
SMF and the Bank and an adequate number of suitably qualified staff to
enable it effectively to appraise the financial and economic feasibility
of Mortgage Loans and to make such Loans to Beneficiaries in accordance
with said financial and operating policy and on the basis of the
criteria, procedures and principal terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
      (e)   supervise and monitor the Mortgage Loans in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the SMF, the Borrower, and the Bank.
      (f)   exchange views with, and furnish all such information and
documentation as may be reasonably requested by the SMF, with regard to
the performance of its obligations under its respective Participation
Agreement, and in connection with the Mortgage Loans;
      (g)   promptly inform SMF of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under its
respective Participation Agreement; and
      (h)   not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Mortgage Loans, or any provision thereof, without prior
approval of the SMF.
7.    At the time of draw-down of the SMF's loans, each PFI shall
provide to the SMF, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank, an irrevocable beneficial right and claim to Mortgage Loans
equivalent to 120% of the principal amount of the loan to such PFI.
Mortgage Loans will be required to have less than three months arrears
at the time of pledging to the SMF. As any of the Mortgage Loans
pledged as collateral by a PFI are redeemed, fall into arrears of more
than three months, or have normal or early payments of principal made,
such PFI shall pledge to the SMF additional Mortgage Loans or other
assets approved by the SMF, in order to obtain at the end of each
calendar quarter an aggregate principal value of collateral of 120% of
the value of the SMF's loans to such PFI.
8.    Participation Agreements shall obligate the PFI to: (i) maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition, including
records and separate accounts regarding its activities under Part A (1)
of the Project; (ii) have such records and accounts, together with its
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements), for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with generally accepted auditing standards and procedures consistently
applied, by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to the SMF;
(iii) furnish to SMF no later than six months after the end of each
such year: (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
of such scope and in such detail as the SMF shall have reasonably
requested; and (iv) furnish to the SMF and the Borrower such information
and documentation as the Borrower or SMF shall reasonably request.
9.    Participation Agreements shall require the PFI to make Mortgage
Loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and to obtain, by written contract with
the Beneficiary or by other appropriate legal means: (i) mortgages as
security for the Mortgage Loans and the right to take possession of the
residential housing in case of noncompliance by the Beneficiaries with
the terms of the Mortgage Loans; and (ii) the undertaking of the PFI to
exercise, in relation to each Beneficiary, its rights under its Mortgage
Loans in such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of
the SMF and to accomplish the purposes of the Project.
Page  8
10.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, provisions shall be
included in each Participation Agreement that the right of a PFI to
use the proceeds of its loan from the SMF shall be: (a) suspended
upon failure by such PFI to perform any of its obligations under its
respective Participation Agreement; and (b) terminated if such right
shall have been suspended for a continuous period of 30 days.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                  Terms and Conditions of Mortgage Loans
1.    The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of paragraph (b) of Section
2.02 of this Project Agreement.
2.    Each Mortgage Loan shall be made by a PFI on terms, including
those relating to maturities, interest and other charges, which are
in accordance with said PFIs financial and operating policies and
procedures referred to in Paragraph 6 (d) of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
3.    Each Mortgage Loan shall be made by a PFI only:
      (a)   to a Beneficiary which shall have established to the
satisfaction of said PFI that it is creditworthy;
      (b)   if the ratio of the Mortgage Loan to the appraised value
of the property secured thereby does not exceed 80 percent;
      (c)   if the Mortgage Loan was made not earlier than one year
of the date of the Loan Agreement; and
      (d)   if the housing securing the Mortgage Loan is new or newly
renovated.
4.    The PFI shall obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary
or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the SMF and the PFI, including, where applicable:
      (a)   that each Beneficiary shall undertake to occupy or rent
the housing to be acquired under the Mortgage Loan primarily for
residential use; and
      (b)   provisions to ensure the right of the PFI upon failure
by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its Mortgage
Loan: (i) to suspend or terminate the right of such Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Mortgage Loan; and (ii) to take
possession of the housing secured by such Mortgage Loan.
