The World Bank                               1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: IN.TPAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION        U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
December 26, 2013
His Excellency Mr. Kerfalla Yansand
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Conakry
Republic of Guinea
Guinea: Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Trust Fund
Education for All Project
(Grant No. TF092364)
Amendment to the Grant Agreement
We refer to the letter grant agreement (the "Agreement") for the above-referenced
project, between the International Development Association ("World Bank"), acting as
administrator of the Education for All - Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Trust Fund ("EFA-
FTI CTF") and the Republic of Guinea (the "Recipient"), dated July 30, 2008, as
amended.
Pursuant to your letter dated July 15, 2013, requesting the World Bank to extend
the closing date of the Grant, as well as to your letter dated November 12, 2013
requesting a reallocation of funds, I am pleased to inform you that the Bank concurs to
your request; therefore:
1. The table in Section 3.01 of the Annex to the Grant Agreement is amended to read
as follows:
Category             Amount of the Percentage of Expenditures to be
Grant                Financed
Allocated         (Inclusive of Taxes)
(Expressed in
USD)
(1) Goods, works, non-consulting  (a) During  55% until the amount of
services, consultants' services,  initial     $22,000,000 (set out in paragraph
Training and Operating Costs and  implementation: (a) in the opposite column) has
under the Project (other than under 22 000,000  been fully disbursed; and thereafter,
Part B(iv))                                   45% for the remaining amount of
(b) During final $17, 230,000 (set out in paragraph
Implementation: (b) in the opposite column)
17 230,000
(2) Block Grants for goods, works, (a) During
non-consulting services,       initial


﻿-2-
consultants' services and Training  implementation:
under Part B(iv) of the Project  0
(b) During final
Implementation:
770,000
2. Section 3.03 (Withdrawal Period) of the Annex to the Agreement is amended to read as
follows:
"3.03.  Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred
to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard Conditions is
December 31, 2014"
3. In addition, Section 2.01 (Project Description) of the Annex to the Agreement is hereby
deleted and replaced by Annex 1 to this letter.
All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, shall remain in
full force and effect.
Please indicate your acknowledgement of, and agreement with, the foregoing
amendments to the Agreement on behalf of the Recipient by countersigning and dating
the two original copies of this letter and returning one countersigned original to us. The
amendments to the Agreement shall become effective as of the date of countersignature
of this letter.
Sincerel
Ousmane Diagana
Country Director for Guinea
Africa Region
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By:
Name: e'ER FA LtA    V14"j,.4 1te-%
Title: -r,s-eI'/C4{e~/&o7me                      F ,
Date:                 2AnWI  L


﻿-3 -
Annex 1
"2.01 Project Description. The objective of the Project, which is part of the Program,
is to'enhance equitable access to and quality of basic education, while also strengthening
decentralized management of the education system in the Recipient's territory. The Project
consists of the following parts:
"Part A:     Improving Equitable Access to basic education
(i)    Improving primary educational infrastructure by constructing or
rehabilitating and furnishing primary classrooms in targeted areas.
(ii)   Expanding educational access of primary-level students with
special needs by providing additional training for teachers and
provision of special education materials.
(iii)  (a) Developing strategies and establishing partnerships with the
private sector as well as identifying sectors of growth through the
provision of technical assistance (including the carrying out of
surveys and studies) and (b) constructing, rehabilitating and
furnishing professional integration centers at selected sites.
(iv)   Promoting school demand through (a) providing private courses to
girls to keep them in school; (b) provision of school kits to children
in the targeted poorest prefectures; (c) carrying-out social
mobilization in selected sub-prefectures through sensitization
campaigns; and (d) provision of teaching aids to, and training of,
targeted teachers in multigrade classrooms.
Part B:      Improving Quality of Basic Education
(i)    Provision of textbooks for public primary and secondary schools.
(ii)   Strengthening teacher training curriculum  through technical
assistance.
(iii)  Supporting in-service training for primary and lower secondary
teachers and primary school and lower secondary directors
(iv)   Provision of Block Grants to primary schools and DSEE in support
of their school improvement projects.
(v)    Conducting nation-wide student learning assessments.
(vi)   Supporting reform in higher education and carrying-out studies on
higher education.
(vii)  Supporting the piloting of early literacy assessment, including a
study tour, training of teachers in the use of assessment
instruments, production of teaching materials, interactive radio
programs and monitoring-evaluation by the DSEE.


﻿-4-
Part C:     Strengthening Management of the Education Sector
(i)   Strengthening the CN-PSE's capacity at the central and
deconcentrated levels to monitor civil works through technical
advisory services, equipment and training.
(ii)  Strengthening the MEPU-EC's planning and monitoring capacity
at the central, regional and prefectoral levels;
(iii)  Strengthening the MEPU-EC's human resources management
through the provision of computer software and technical
assistance for the improvement of human resource procedures.
(iv)  Strengthening the overall management and coordination capacity
of the MEPU-EC by providing, inter alia, training, equipment and
internet."


