Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19446
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3765-MOR)
June 15, 1999
Rural Development, Water and Environment Group
Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency UInit = Moroccan Dirham (MAD)
Appraisal value (1993) 1 US$ =9.50 MAD
Official Exchange Rates (MAD per US$)
Year                    Annual Average
1994                     9.20 MAD
1995                     8.54 MAD
1996                     8.71 MAD
1997                     9.53 MAD
1998                     9.53 MAD
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Until 1995:               January 1 - December 31
Since 1996:              July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AER              Agricultural Expenditure Review
ASAL             Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
ASIL             Agricultural Sector Investment Loan
CED              Comptroller of Expenditure Commitments
CGG              Government General Council
CNCA             Agricultural Credit Bank
CPED             Provincial Comptroller of Expenditure Commitments
DPAE             Programming and Economnic Affairs Department in Ministry of Agriculture
FDA              Government Grant Fund for Agricultural Development
FY               Fiscal Year
GATT             General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP              Gross Domestic Product
GOM              Government of Morocco
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
MTASAP           Medium Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
ONICL            National Cereal and Leguminous Crop Office
SAR              Staff Appraisal Report
SMSI             Small and Medium Scale Irrigation
SOE              Statement of Expenditures
Vice President: Kemal Dervis
Country Director Christian Delvoie
Sector Director Doris Koehn
Task Team Leader Douglas W. Lister



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3765-MOR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .................................. ,.i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ........................... .,,..,,.,.,.,,,,.,,,                     ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                           .I
A. BACKGROUND .I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES    ..
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ...........................,,,.,,,.2., ,   ,    ,    .     ...2
D. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES                               ..3
E. PROJECT FORMULATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS                       ..5
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT   .6
G. PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACT                              ..9
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION  . .14
1. BANK PERFORMANCE .15
J. BORROWER PERFORMANCE ..........................                                 15
K. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME    ..16
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED ...........................                                 16
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES                              .18
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                         .18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits ..........................                     20
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................ 21
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative - Estimated and Actual ............................................ 22
Table Sa: Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Physical Investments .23
Table Sb: Key Indicators for Project Implementation - Reform Measures . .  .,,,.24
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .................................,.,,.,.,., .. 26
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .26
Table 8a: Project Costs .27
Table 8b: Project Financing ...................................... 28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits .28
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .                                              29
Table I 1: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................   31
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .3..........................................  1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ..........................      ,               32
APPENDICES:
A.   Mission Aide-Memoire
B.   Borrower's Contribution
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3765-MOR)
1. PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second
Agricultural Sector Investment Loan (ASIL 2) in Morocco, for which Loan 3765-
MOR in the amount of US$ 121.0 million equivalent was signed on December 5, 1994
and declared effective on March 13, 1995. In a restructuring of the Moroccan loan
portfolio, the loan amount was reduced to US$ 60.0 million, effective January 9, 1996.
At the Government's request, the loan was closed on June 30, 1998, one year
before the original closing date. At that time, an additional amount of US$ 6.0 million
equivalent was cancelled. Final disbursement took place on November 12, 1998,
bringing the total amount disbursed to US$ 53,152,155.27 equivalent. The balance of
US$ 847,844.73 equivalent was cancelled.
This ICR was prepared by Harald Stier working as a consultant with the Task
Team Leader, Douglas W. Lister, of the Rural Development, Water and Environment
Group of the Middle East & North Africa (MINSRE). It was reviewed by Salah
Darghouth, Sector Leader - Water & Environment, and Marjory-Anne Bromhead,
Principal Natural Resource Management Economist (MNSRE). The ICR was also the
subject of an internal review meeting held on February 10, 1999.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the completion mission which
visited Morocco from November 2-10, 1998. It is based on material in the project file
and interviews in the field. The Borrower contributed with information to the mission,
by preparing its own completion report and by commenting on the draft ICR
(Appendix 2).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 3765-MOR)
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    In response to urgent economic circumstances, the Government, in 1986,
began a Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (MTASAP), which
was supported by the Bank through two Agricultural Structural Adjustment Loans,
ASAL I (Loan 2590-MOR) and ASAL II (Loan 2885-MOR). Progress in regaining
macro-economic balances and on the MTASAP was good, and it provided the
economy and the agricultural sector with an improved incentive framework. Although
reforms still remained to be completed, the main need now became to launch private
sector led growth again. In the agricultural sector, the emphasis was on rendering the
public investment program more efficient to provide the necessary infrastructure in
support of increasing private investments. Agricultural sector investment loans
(ASILs) became a key feature in the new Bank assistance strategy. ASIL 1 (Loan
3403-MOR) was designed to finance priority line items in the Ministry of
Agriculture's (MOA) budget for 1991 and 1992, and to support sector policy reforms
in selected key areas.
Project Objectives
ii.    ASIL 2 was intended to build on the efforts begun under ASIL 1. As stated
in the SAR, the objective of ASIL 2 was: "a general resource transfer to the
agricultural sector in support of a well-conceived public investment program together
with a series of complementary policy actions to deepen associated sector reforms."
The idea was to continue to improve the sector investment program, while addressing
"unfinished business" on the sector policy agenda.
iii.    The loan covered a time-slice of the Government's total agricultural
investment program for 1994-1997, estimated at US$993 million. It consisted of two
components: an investment component and a reform program. The investment
component would finance 12% of the sector investment budget and be disbursed
against: priority investments in irrigation, rainfed land development, crop production,
livestock, forestry & soil conservation, plant protection, agricultural education,
training and planning; and against capital grants to promote private investments in the
agricultural sector under the Government's Agricultural Development Fund (FDA).
ii



iv.    The reform program was comprised of a series of measures designed to
improve operations in the sector or the efficiency of selected investments. It included:
liberalization of internal and external trade, reforms in the budget execution process,
reforms of the FDA, and sub-sector reforms essentially covering the same areas as the
investment components enumerated above.
v.     The first part of the stated project objectives, "a general resource transfer to
the agricultural sector in support of a well-conceived public investment program",
does not seem to express what could realistically be expected of the Loan. It was well
understood that although Bank loans add to the total resources at the disposal of the
Ministry of Finance, there is no direct link to individual Ministries' budget who
would get the same amount with or without the project (i.e. there is no "additionality"
to Bank lending). Also, as it turned out, the Bank was in no position to influence the
Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA's) investment program to ensure that it was "well-
conceived". The second part of the ASIL 2 objective, "to deepen sector reforns",
came closer to being met, and overall was realistic.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
vi.   Although the program to be financed included 1994, loan effectiveness was not
until March 13, 1995. This delay was due to the time required for the Government
Council to approve the deregulation of the domestic cereal marketing system, which
was a loan covenant.
vii.    As a result of a general restructuring of the Bank's loan portfolio, half of the
loan amount, or $61.0 million, was cancelled on January 9, 1996, without prior
restructuring of the Loan. This cancellation amounted to terminating ASIL 2, since
the then current January-July 1996 interim budget' would exhaust the remaining loan
amount. No motivation was now left for a dialogue on the 1996/97 and following
budget which were part of the original program under ASIL 2. Also there was no
incentive left for MOA to follow the SAR and prepare a new action plan with further
reforrns for these years.
viii.   Although Government budget cuts for ASIL 2 were rather limited, there
was a significant structural reallocation of resources between subsectors. Irrigation
received increased allocations at the expense of non-irrigation. This despite the fact
that the Bank supported an increase in the relative share of dry-land investments.2
Forestry, another sub-sector strongly supported by the Bank, also saw its share of
budget allocations considerably reduced. Clearly, ASIL 2 did not give the Bank
much influence on MOA budget allocations.
ix.    No system for measuring the impact of project activities was put in place.
For project investments, indicators of impact were never designed and agreed, and for
the reform program, indicators proposed in the SAR were never monitored. A joint
'Morocco switched from a calendar year budget to a split year July-June budget in 1996. The interim
period between the two budgets, January -June 1996, had its own budget.
This support was formnalized under SAL 2, which included conditionality to this end but although it
remained an underlying objective in ASIL 2, it was not very explicitly stated in the SAR.
iii



FAO/MOA-DPAE study3 tried to evaluate the impact of the whole structural
adjustment program on the development of the agricultural sector. It covers the period
of the early 1980s to 1995 and does not relate directly to the ASIL 2 reforms. For
lack of project indicators, to give some sense of impact, it has been necessary to rely
on extrapolations from similar experiences, including from some of the results of the
FAO/MOA study.
Impact of Physical Investments
x.     More than one-third of MOA investments under ASIL (excluding FDA) was
in Small and Medium Scale Irrigation (SMSI, about 8,300 ha), including some flood
damage repairs (about 16,700 ha). In one area inspected, the impact of flood damage
repairs was extremely positive, allowing the irrigation of a larger area and leading to
an increase in the farmers' incomes in a short period of time. The ICR for the
SMSI 2 project (Loan 2954-MOR, Report 16601, May 20, 1997) gives economic
rates of return varying from 20 to 32% for similar subprojects. Some 7,500
households, or about 45,000 people would have benefited from this type of ASIL 2
works.
xi.    About one-quarter of the Bank-financed MOA investment program was for
livestock production, mostly for animal health. More than 20 million animals are
estimated to have been vaccinated in each of 1995, 96 and 97. In one way or another,
this program would have benefited the vast majority of livestock owners, which in
Morocco would almost equate with the 1.5 million farmers. Together with the meat
inspection program under the project it would also have benefited the consumers to
the extent that diseases or parasites could be transmitted to humans (see also
para. xx).
xii.    ASIL investments in forestry went mainly for communications equipment
which rendered forest operations more efficient and, in particular, improved forest
protection against fires and illicit activities. It has also helped the morale of forest
guards in remote areas by reducing their isolation and improving security. Under
rainfed land development, 8,400 ha have been destoned and results from an evaluation
of such works4 show large productivity gains, with yield increases of 33-150%
depending on the crop. Farmers also have been able to extend their cultivated area by
one-third and switch to higher value crops. Land holders' incomes were found to
increase by over 100%. Some 2,000 households (16,000 people) may have benefited
from destoning under the project.
3L 'Impact du programme d'ajustement structurel sur le developpement du secteur agricole, Projet
FAO/TCP/MOR4453(A), May 1997.
4 Operation Epierrage, Rapport d'Evaluation, MOA, February 1997. The evaluation was made on the
basis of a 10% sample of farmers on 11 work sites representing the major zones in the country. These
work sites covered 31,200 ha (38%) out of the 80,000 ha which had been covered by destoning
operations at that time.
iv



FDA Capital Grants
xiii.   Irrigation represents about two-thirds of FDA capital grants supported by the
Loan (subsidies mainly for the digging and electrification of wells and irrigation
equipment) and results are similar to those of SMSI projects described above. Fann
equipment represents about a quarter of the FDA component, and simulation models
show rates of return of about 15% for tractors and about 40% for combine harvesters.
xiv.    According to the SAR,  FDA  subsidies were to serve four principal
objectives, namely: to introduce new technologies which are not widespread in the
country; have positive externalities; permit a transition from full budget finance to
private sector financing; and provide for income transfer to the poorest. During
project implementation it was found that the FDA was not following the SAR
objectives because its management did not fully agree with these objectives. This
appears to be supported by available information on FDA lending. For example, the
bulk of the grants were for investments such as irrigation wells, tractors, land
development, livestock sheds, fru.it tree seedlings for soil conservation, etc. which
even in Morocco hardly meets the criterion of new technology. On resource transfer
to the poorest, FDA data show that the four percent of farms above 20 ha received
33% of the funds, hardly a resource transfer to the poorest (see para. 35).
Reform Program
xv.     No indicators were monitored for the reform program, nor would they have
been likely to show much change because many of the measures included in the
reform matrix were only first or intermediary steps towards the actual reform on the
ground. Also, most of the actions under the Loan were not independent reforms but
were part, or remnants, of the overall macro-economic reform and liberalization
program started with SAL 1 in the mid-eighties. Economic reform constitutes a
holism where all the parts need to be in harmony for optimum result. This means that
to the extent that project measures formed part of this whole, and they mostly did, the
fact that they were taken must be considered good progress and a satisfactory result,
even if the impact will only be sometime in the future.
xvi.    The question has been raised whether the reforms would have been taken
also without the loan. This is hard to answer but presumably the likelihood of the
reform being implemented without a supporting loan increases with the strength of
Government ownership. However, often views are divided among the stakeholders
and the process of project preparation may focus the attention on specific priority
reforms and sharpen the arguments for those favoring reform and help convince those
resisting it.  Sometimes reforns need time to gather enough support and Bank
continued backing can help this process -along. Several of the important reforms
carried out under ASIL 2 are of this nature, the ideas dating back to the first sector
adjustment operations (e.g. internal and external trade reforms, land policy).
xvii.   Among the measures, Internal Trade Liberalization had started with the
ASALs in the mid-1980s but the cereal market still remained controlled and was the
focus of an ASIL measure (except bread wheat).  This measure (condition of
v



effectiveness) was met with the approval of the ONICL law by the CGG, in October
1994, and the law was approved by Parliament in January 1995. The law was
important but to some extent only formalized a liberalization of the internal cereal
market (except bread wheat) which had already evolved since 1987. The main
exception was that ONICL had a monopoly on imports. Nevertheless, the application
of the law encountered resistance and multiple problems (definition of security stock,
fate of distant mills, management of transition period5) which delayed the necessary
decrees for its execution until May 1996. There is no information on what impact this
has already had on internal cereal trading but some of the effects require time. For
example, a rationalization of the milling industry is slowed down by continued
Government subsidization of transport cost for another four years.
xviii.  Concerning the ASIL II measure for the Liberalization of External Trade in
cereals by introducing tariff equivalents, this was also part of GATT requirements and
the law was approved in May 1996. Cereals continue to rely on heavy protection and
Moroccan negotiators had obtained extremely high tariff equivalents in the GATT
agreements (190% for wheat). In order to stabilize the domestic market within a target
price range, a two-part tariff system is used. A (lower) base rate is applied to the
landed price and then an additional (higher) rate is applied to the difference between
the threshold price and the landed price (para. 39). This makes the domestic price
responsive to international price variations, but with a much reduced amplitude. Given
the high protection levels maintained on cereal imports, the FAO/MOA study
concludes that the liberalization measures will bring little change in the short term. In
fact with falling international prices, the producer subsidy equivalent has increased.
The effects must rather be seen in the long term.
xix.    Budget execution measures under ASIL II constitute a follow-up to such
measures under ASIL I and they have had a considerable impact on the speed with
which the budget is delegated and its monitoring, which has led to a more efficient use
of budgeted funds. Of the measures related to the FDA, "allowing" (providing grants
for) private investments in milk collection centers has led to private sector
involvement. The measure to limit the number and amount of capital grants that a
beneficiary may obtain has been very ineffective (para. 40). An environmental
screening unit was established but given no resources for screening of projects, so the
impact of the measure is negligible.
xx.    Measures for privatization of veterinary services started already in the late
1980s with Bank support and were included both in ASIL I and II. As a result the
number of private veterinarians are now 295, well beyond ASIL II's objective of 144.
The coverage has increased from 50% in 1985 to over 80% in 1997 for cattle and
from 39% in 1985 to 85% in 1997 for sheep. It is not clear if this has yet led to
corresponding reductions in budgetary costs. Measures for Medium and Small-Scale
Irrigation relate to investments under the ASIL II and are similar to what is required
under the SMSI I and II projects in Morocco. The application of selection criteria for
inclusion in rehabilitation works help ensure the economics of the investment and the
creation of user associations ensure their efficient operations and sustainability. The
5FAO/MOA report, op. cit. p 99
vi



new statute for research scientists has been supported by the Bank in previous projects
and its final enactment is a major factor in efforts to establish and retain a high quality
research cadre in agriculture.
Problems in Project Execution
xxi.    Disbursements. Slow disbursements were a problem under ASIL 1 and at
appraisal great efforts were made to find remedies. The solution found proved to be
even more cumbersome as regards the preparation, approval and collection of
supporting documents for withdrawal applications to the Bank. Disbursements became
the single most important issue for ASIL 2 and may be seen as the factor which killed
the project by causing serious delays and leading to the cancellation of half of the loan
amount and the premature closing of the loan. The Government had its own way of
preparing statements of expenditu:re, which was standard and understood throughout
the country and had served it perfectly well for decades. GOM was not prepared to
change the system for the sake of a Bank project. Nor was the Bank willing to
simplify its requirements to fit into the Moroccan system. Perhaps a stronger
commitment from the Bank and Moroccan authorities to find a solution could have
avoided the abrogation of this loan.
xxii.   Procurement. Although model procurement documents, following Bank
Guidelines, had been prepared and agreed with MOA under ASIL 1, their use
remained very limited because of differences between Bank and Moroccan procedures
and the reluctance of Borrower project staff to apply Bank procedures where the
Moroccan regulations differed.
xxiii.  Project Summaries.  As in ASIL 1, analytical project summaries were
prepared according to a standard outline and analyzed to ensure that budget lines
included for ASIL 2 financing met the agreed selection criteria. Project staff found it
difficult to fill in these forms given the fact that often the budget lines to be financed
consisted of small amounts and were not projects in the normal sense of the word. In
addition, in the provincial services of MOA, staff often did not understand how to
apply the selection criteria and the social and economic evaluation methodology.
xxiv.  Monitoring & Evaluation. Good work has been done by the MOA and the
DPAE in the physical and financial M&E-of the project. The latter largely thanks to
improvements made under ASIL 1. However, with regard to impact evaluation and
development indicators, project staff have confronted problems of methodology,
focus, data collection and treatrment, and they were not able to develop these
indicators.
xxv.   Project Management. A strong project management making a concerted
effort with the Bank supervision team, could have resolved the disbursement problem
and the Loan could have been fully used. The failure to establish a good M&E system
to measure project impact, appears to be due to a lack of commitment on the part of
the Moroccan authorities to this particular component. On the Bank side, there were
three Task Managers in succession working on the project during its short duration.
This lack of continuity would appear to have posed a problem for the dialogue on
vii



sector reforns and the consistency in the pursuit of objectives during project
implementation.
xxvi.   Stakeholder Ownership. The ownership of the project among MOA
management and staff seems to have taken a great leap from an interest in ASIL 1 to a
desire to close ASIL 2. It is not easy to explain the difference in attitude. An
important factor often mentioned by MOA was the more complicated disbursement
procedures under ASIL 2, which required substantial additional work without apparent
gains. Also, the lack of continuity in the sector dialogue caused by the frequent
changes in Bank staff did not give the stakeholders the expected benefit that they may
initially have hoped for.
xxvii.  Bank Performance was unsatisfactory. The failure to focus on giving the
project realistic objectives is one likely factor in creating disappointment among staff
responsible for its execution and lack of commitment to its goals. Inability to match
Bank procedures, disbursement, audit and procurement requirements with the clients
procedures and capacity bears a heavy responsibility in the Loan cancellation and its
premature closure. Three different task managers prepared and supervised the Loan,
which would have benefited from a more stable project team and more continuity in
the sector dialogue. Irregular supervision frequencies with uneven input did not help.
xxviii.  Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory. Where project actions
were considered important and "owned" by the Borrower and other stakeholders, these
were generally carried out with diligence and method (e.g. liberalization of cereal
imports and domestic marketing and privatization of veterinary services). In other
areas where the ownership was not as prevalent (e.g. using of objective criteria for
project selection, impact evaluation and the better targeting of the FDA capital grants),
efforts were under-funded and experienced delays. The implementation of the projects
physical investments and reformn measures have been satisfactorily monitored. The
financial budget management and monitoring systems introduced under ASIL 1 have
not only been sustained but also improved. Disbursements, however, could perhaps
have been facilitated by better coordination between the different agencies involved,
MOA, MOF, CED the auditors and last but not least, the Bank, which bares its share
of the burden of this by its rigid requirements.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xxix.  Even though there is still substantial "unfinished business" on the agricultural
policy agenda, notably with respect to irrigation cost recovery, output pricing and
public expenditure priorities, ASIL 2 was an important vehicle in moving this agenda
forward. Technically, since the stated objective was resource transfer to the
agricultural sector and over half of the loan was cancelled, the outcome must be
considered unsatisfactory. Yet this should not hide the fact that most of the reform
program was implemented which, by promoting growth and liberalizing the
environment for private sector activity, should have a substantial positive impact on
the development of the rural sector in the future. Investments under the loan also
contributed to sector development and are likely to be sustainable. Future sector policy
dialogue and lending operations are expected to follow-up on outstanding issues.
viii



xxx.   As for the key lessons learned, these include:
* Project objectives need to be clearly defined, realistic and agreed with the
Borrower if the outcome is tlo be successful. Unclear and unrealistic objectives
which have not been agreed upon may result in disappointment and failure to
identify with project goals among stakeholders and lead to lackluster
implementation efforts. Future sector investment type operations should also be
more focused on a coherent set of sector or sub-sector investments and policy and
institutional reforms, and there should be more participation by the concerned
Govemment agencies in their formulation.
* Similarly, indicators of development outcome and impact are best agreed at the
outset with the stakeholders and a system to measure these indicators needs to be
put in place early on in the project.
* Disbursement procedures and auditing need to be addressed during project
preparation and appraisal to render them as simple as possible and permit rapid
disbursements.
- To the extent that the project's (i.e. the Bank's) procurement procedures (as well as
any other procedures) are different from those normally practiced in the country,
these need to be explicitly agreed with the Borrowers' highest executing authority
in the matter, who then needs to instruct those responsible for the execution of
these procedures accordingly. Any model procurement documents in a project
need to follow a similar approval and internalization process.
* Frequent changes in Bank project team-leaders makes it difficult to maintain a
dialogue on the project with focus and direction and may lead to loss of interest
among stakeholders.
* The resources actually made available for supervision should be consistent with
the agreed project supervision plan. This plan should be considered as a
commitment by both management and staff.
ix



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
SECOND AGRICULTURAL SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
(Loan 3765-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Forty-seven percent of Morocco's 28 million people live in rural areas and the
agricultural sector plays a critical role in the economy. The country is characterized by
large disparity between the "have" and the "have nots" and a small minority of the
population control the bulk of land and other resources. Although the agricultural sector
only provides 16 percent of Morocco's GDP, it provides employment for 40 percent of
the labor force and generates 30 percent of export earnings. Of the 28 million ha of
agricultural land in Morocco, only nine million are cultivable, leaving 19 million ha in
semi-arid or mountainous regions suitable for grazing. Of the cultivable land, about 50
per cent receive an erratic rainfall of less than 400 mm and can only be put under
relatively high risk, low value cropping systems. The remaining 50 percent benefit from
good but inconsistent rainfall. Some 0.9 million ha are currently under irrigation. Food
crops are the largest sub-sector, contributing about 60 percent of the gross value of
agricultural production. Cereals alone account for 80 percent of the harvested area and
one-third of the gross value of production. Livestock accounts for almost one-third of
agricultural output and is composed of 16 million sheep, 5 million goats, 3 million cattle,
over 1 million draught animals, including some 30,000 camels. Forest and woodland
occupy nearly 6 million ha and account for about one-eighth of agricultural value added.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.   In response to urgent economic circumstances, the Government, in 1984,
introduced a medium-term program of stabilization and adjustment to reduce fiscal and
external deficits and to increase economic productivity. In 1986, as part of this response,
the Government began a Medium-Term Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(MTASAP) which was supported by the Bank through two Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loans, ASAL I (Loan 2590-MOR) and ASAL II (Loan 2885-MOR).
Progress in regaining macro-economic balances and on the MTASAP was good and it
provided the economy and the agricultural sector with an improved incentive framework.
Although reforms still remained to be completed, the main need now became to launch
private sector led growth again. In agriculture, the emphasis was on rendering the public
investment program more efficient to provide the necessary infrastructure in support of
increasing private investments, all while completing remaining reforms. A key feature in
the new Bank strategy in support of the agricultural sector now became agricultural
sector investment loans (ASILs). ASIL I (Loan 3403-MOR), was designed to finance
priority line items in the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) budget for 1991 and 1992 and
1



to support sector policy reforms in selected key areas. ASIL 2 would allow the Bank to
build on efforts begun under ASIL 1 and the objective of ASIL 2 was stated in the SAR
as "a general resource transfer to the agricultural sector in support of a well-conceived
public investment program together with a series of complementary policy actions to
deepen associated sector reforms."
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.    The Loan covered a time-slice of the Government's total agricultural investment
program for 1994-1997, estimated at US$993 million. It consisted of two components:
an investment component and a reform program. The investment component would
finance 12% of MOA's investment budget. It would be disbursed against selected key
line items in the budget and against capital grants (subsidies) for private investments in
agriculture under the Government's Agricultural Development Fund (FDA). The reform
program was comprised of a series of measures designed to improve sector operations or
the efficiency of selected investments (see Tables 5a and 5b).
Investment program
4.    The project provided financing for the following activities in MOA investment
budget:
(a)   Livestock, (i) inputs for vaccination campaigns of contagious diseases and
laboratory equipment to improve animal health; (ii) demonstration materials and
range rehabilitation and improvement for the animal nutrition program; and
(iii) field structures, equipment and materials for the genetic program.
(b)   Agricultural Education and Training, construction of classrooms, laboratories, and
acquisition of technical and pedagogical equipment for (i) an employment
sobservatory", which identifies skills needs of private employers in the sector and
(ii) professional training programs to transfer these skills to students; (iii) new
programs to train students to become farmers and entrepreneurs themselves and;
(iv) new programs to train farmers and laborers in modem technologies.
(c)   Rainfed Land Development, a program for land improvement (destoning, access
roads in land consolidation schemes) and associated studies, topographical
services with computer and mapping equipment.
(d)   Crop Production, studies, technology promotion (e.g. early vegetables in coastal
zones, distribution of disease tolerant date palms and planting materials for
demonstration) and continuing actions in completed Bank financed projects.
(e)   Plant Protection, field structures (workshops, storage, inspection stations),
technical equipment, (sprayers, trucks, pumps), improved labeling and packaging
of chemical products, study materials and training for MOA's plant protection,
seed, rodent, bird and fraud control programs.
(f)   Forestry  and  Soil  Conservation,  construction  of  surveillance  towers,
communication and electrical equipment for the forest protection program.
2



(g)   Medium and Small-Scale Irrigation, feasibility studies, irrigation and flood repair
works.
(h)   Planning, consultants for specific agro-economic studies and for program and
project evaluation plus some equipment for the agricultural census.
5.    The loan also supported the Agricultural Development Fund (FDA), which
provides direct grants for specified private investments in agriculture at a set percentage
of the cost (maximum 40%). According to the SAR, these investments were to serve four
principal objectives, namely to introduce new technologies, have positive externalities,
pennit a transition from full budget finance to private sector financing and provide for
income transfer to the poorest.
Reform Program
6.    The loan also supported an action program of policy reforms in support of the
agricultural sector objectives and to improve the efficiency of the agricultural investment
program. The program intended to address current policy issues in the sector and
complement but not overlap with efforts made under other operations. Five priority set
of actions had been identified:
(a)   Actions to secure the improvements in the budget execution process made under
ASIL 1.
(b)   Actions in support of internal trade liberalization for cereals (except bread wheat).
(c)   The establishment of an environmental screening unit in the Ministry of
Agriculture.
(d)   Measures to improve the FDA program, including improvement in the targeting
of the grants with ceilings on what any individual could receive, the establishment
of a permanent system to monitor the achievements of FDA objectives and the
opening up of certain investments under Government responsibility to the private
sector.
(e)   Actions to liberalize external trade, including the introduction of tariff equivalents
to quantitative restrictions for the importation of cereals equal to 90% or less than
those required under the GATT agreement and assuring that these tariffs remained
fixed except under certain specified conditions.
7.    Other actions supported the investment programn in the sub-sectors and constituted
an overall program which the Governnent had undertaken to carry out.
D. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Project objectives as described in the SAR are clearly stated, but they are typical
of the time when they were made and do not represent what would now be thought of as
development objectives according to the "logical framework". Although clear, the first
3



part of the objective "a general resource transfer to the agricultural sector"... does not
seem to express what one could realistically expect from this Loan. It was well
understood that although Bank loans add to the total resources at the disposal of the
Ministry of Finance, there is no direct link to individual Ministries' budgets, in this case
the Ministry of Agriculture, who would get the same amount with or without the project
(i.e. there is no "additionality" to Bank lending). It was always clear during project
preparation that the project would have to be defined within the existing budget and in
periods of budget constraints and budget cuts (which has been the case for most years
over the last decade), Bank projects have generally suffered the same reductions as the
rest of the budget. It must be noted, however, that in 1995, ASIL 2 did not suffer any
budget cut, while the total MOA budget was reduced by 15% . In fact, ASIL 2 was the
only Bank project in Morocco which did not see its overall budget cut that year. After
this, however, budget lines financed under ASIL 2 seem to have experienced their share
of budget cuts, on a par with other investments if not more. Thus, while the stated
objective of resource transfer may have raised expectations among the stakeholders, it
was not very realistic and was not achieved.
9.    The second part of the objective, that the loan was "in support of a well-conceived
public investment program" assumed that the Bank would have an influence on the
investment program and somehow help shaping it. This influence was to be effected
through a revision of the Agricultural Expenditure Survey (AER), carried out in 1990
before the ASIL 1, through reviews and discussions of the annual budgets to be financed
under ASIL 2, and through the application of transparent selection criteria for projects in
the budgets. This also proved to be unrealistic. The project team was able to review the
budgets to be financed and assure itself that they were generally acceptable to the Bank,
but there are no records from these reviews and it is clear that the Bank was in no
position to effect a change in the budget. Similar to ASIL 1, MOA staff prepared project
summaries for all investments in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture. They
grouped individual budget line items into projects or programs as units for analysis.
These project summaries included the project objectives, a description and costs of the
project and elements of justification, inciuding economic rates of return where
quantifiable, social impact (incomes, employment), environmental benefits and a
justification for public intervention. This was a good effort, but there is no evidence that
these project summaries ever made any difference to project selection. The models for
project summaries were not very well understood by those supposed to fill them in. This
resulted in rather general descriptions that did not permit an objective evaluation.
However, one cannot expect that such new procedures would be understood immediately
by everyone. They may have some positive effect in the long term in providing
management and executing staff with a framework for more systematic project evaluation
which may take root more firmly with time.
10.   The last part of ASIL 2's objectives "to deepen sector reforms," is where stated
loan objectives have come closest to being met and, overall, they were realistic (see Table
5b for details) and were important to the agricultural sector policy agenda.. Twenty of the
32 (62%) reforn measures under the Loan have been taken. Seven (22%) are in progress
or have been taken partially and only 5 (16%) have shown little progress or have not been
taken at all. Among those taken are the two, by far, most important actions, namely the
measures to liberalize external and internal cereal trade. Important actions at the sub-
sectoral level have also been taken. In retrospect, the reform program would appear to
4



constitute the principal justification for this Loan. Many sub-sector heads in Morocco
expressed the importance that they attached to making reform proposals an integral part
of the action program under a Bank loan.
11.   When Bank proj ects were transferred and retrofitted to the new Form 590 system
in FY97, project objectives and key indicators of development impact were supposed to
be discussed and agreed with the Govemment. Given the lack of realism in the original
objectives, this would have seemed to provide a good opportunity to correct this
situation. However there was no documented discussion with the Governnent and the
objectives were kept the same. With regard to indicators for development impact, the
Forms 590 state that there was no system in place to monitor the development outcome or
impact. Perhaps it might have been useful to use whatever data that was monitored
(financial and physical implementation) and define some proxy indicators for
development impact. However, no effort in that direction was attempted.
E. PROJECT FORMULATION AND DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS
12.   In the early 1990s the Bank strategy for support to the agricultural sector called
for a series of ASILs to improve the overall efficiency of the Moroccan agricultural
investment program (budget execution as well as project selection) and to couple this
with policy reform in selected areas. This would allow the Bank to continue the sector
dialogue initiated under the ASALs and include sensitive topics not covered by Bank
operations at that time, such as land policy, agricultural education and livestock (we can
now see that important reforms have been made, or are under way, in these areas).
13.   The question has been raised whether the reform program should not have been
supported by additional sector adjustment loans rather than sector investment loans.
There is substantial support for this idea, but at the time, the achievements under the
sector adjustment loans had been over-sold and Bank management decided that it would
be difficult to revisit the reform agenda with a new sector adjustment loan. There was, at
the same time, pressure in the Bank to reduce costs and the number of operations and a
vision to group investment loans into loans covering the whole sector evolved. Thus a
hybrid type of operation, the ASIL, was born. The design of ASIL 2 followed the general
model of ASIL 1, despite the problem of slow disbursements.' This is so despite the fact
that what did not work well in ASIL 1 was in principle there to serve as lesson for the
design of ASIL 2.
14.   On the investment side, the idea was for the Bank to continue to improve MOA's
investment program towards GOM's objective of increasing the agricultural sector's
efficiency, flexibility and growth and finance a tranche of MOA's investment budget
where projects were selected according to objective criteria agreed with the Bank. Each
year MOA was to furnish, for the Bank's review and comments, its proposed agricultural
investment program for the following fiscal year, and thereafter finalize it taking into
account the Bank's comments thereon. The principal need in the sector was to select
investments that furthered GOM's above objectives and to focus these investments into
carefully chosen areas where public sector involvement was well-justified or where they
' The Task Manager's personal interventions helped disburse the loan but these were ad hoc problem
solving actions by the supervision missions and were not part of design of the project.
5



could facilitate private investments and services. Although the project provided that the
Bank sign off on the entire investment program, the Bank according to its rules found it
necessary to identify the individual investments it financed, which meant the
identification and selection of specific budget lines against which disbursements were to
be made. The need for a separate accounting and special treatment of the selected budget
lines, often very small in amount, already caused problems in ASIL 1. As a result of
complaints from the auditors of ASIL 1, who found it difficult to assemble the documents
needed to audit statements of expenditure (SOEs), the procedures were modified for
ASIL 2 which, for project staff, resulted in a multiplication of the handling requirements
of such supporting documents. It must be understood that budget lines financed by the
Loan, many of which were already small in the aggregate budget, were delegated to as
many as 200 different field units wlhere the expenditures were made. Thus the final
individual expenditures were often very small, too small to motivate staff to make the
extra effort required for reimbursement from the Bank.
15.   Another design problem was that, since the Bank does not allow tranching of
investment loans, it had no real leverage to ensure the reforms were implemented in cases
where they were not fully owned by the Government (e.g. better targeting of FDA).
Although theoretically the Bank may stop disbursements if an important loan covenant is
not met, the Bank has generally been reluctant to seek such remedies in its loans and the
cases where disbursements have been stopped are extremely rare. Another problem was
that there often was no link between the items financed and the reforms promoted. Thus
for example, a plan was developed to collect outdated or banned chemicals and put them
in safe storage, but it has not been possible to implement this plan for lack of funding.
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
16.   Although the program to be financed included 1994, loan effectiveness was not
until March 13, 1995. Loan processing was initially delayed to allow the Moroccan
authorities to meet audit requirements under ASIL 1, where SOEs posed a problem.
Later, loan effectiveness was delayed by the covenant that the Government Council
approve the deregulation of the cereal mark.eting system (excluding bread wheat) up-
stream of the mills and finally by the issuing of the legal opinion. Nevertheless this did
not stop investments from being made in 1994 as per budget allocations, since there is no
direct link between Bank financing and allocation of investment funds (no additionality).
Due to the delay in the effectiveness, ASIL 2 financing for all of 1994 became retroactive
(which is limited to 10% of the loan aimiount according to Bank policy) rather than for the
first six months as per SAR. Thus instead of a planned financing of $28 million for 1994,
only $12 million (10% of the loan amoumt) was financed. To simplify disbursements this
total amount was disbursed against capital grants under the FDA where the procedures
were under better control. Yet, the first disbursements did not take place until July 1995.
17.  In the Fall of 1995 the Bank started an exercise to restructure its loan portfolio in
order to reduce the lag of disbursements against outstanding commitments, essentially by
agreeing with the clients on the cancellation of "excessive" loan amounts. This exercise
was carried out by the portfolio managers in the Bank and in Morocco. The Task
Managers in the Bank and Project Management in Morocco had to accept to see their
budgets reduced. In the case of ASIL 2, half of the loan amount, or $61 million was
cancelled on January 9, 1996 without prior restructuring of the loan. This cancellation
6



amounted in effect to terninating ASIL 2 since the then current January-July 1996
interim budget2 would exhaust the total remaining loan amount. This left no incentive,
other than academic, for a dialogue on the 1996/97 and following budget which were part
of the original program to be financed by ASIL 2. Also there was no incentive left for
the preparation of a new action plan for these years, as foreseen in the SAR. The main
remaining interest in the ASIL 2 was now to collect the necessary documents and
invoices for the disbursement of the rest of the loan, a task which did not inspire anyone.
The rest of this chapter will present the major problems in project execution. It is to be
stressed that most if not all the problems listed were under Government and Bank control
and could have been avoided had they been given the proper attention by the concerned
decision makers at the appropriate time.
Problems in Project Execution
18.   Disbursements. Disbursements became a major issue. The very large number of
small payments in the investment component, scattered over many locations created
serious problems when it came to assemble the supporting documentation required for the
reimbursement from the Loan. The Government had its own way of preparing statements
of expenditure, which was standard and understood throughout the country and had
served it perfectly well for decades. GOM was not prepared to change the system for the
sake of a Bank project. Nor was the Bank willing to simplify its requirements to fit into
the Moroccan system. The potential problems that might arise with the disbursements
were foreseen at project appraisal and great efforts were made to find remedies. The
solution found to the ASIL 1 disbursement problem proved to be even more cumbersome
as regards the preparation, approval and collection of supporting documents for
withdrawal applications to the Bank under ASIL 2. Both the Bank and the project staff
responsible foresaw that, because of the multiplication of people involved in the issuing
and approving of the withdrawal documentation, there would be delays. In the event, for
example, local level treasury officials often refused to co-sign the SOEs needed for
disbursement applications according to the procedure put in place specifically for the
project. This despite frequent reminders by the Ministry of Finance. A representative
from the Bank's disbursement division accompanied one mission to try solve the
problems but no solution was found.
19.   Disbursement against capital grants under FDA went much smoother since these
grants were given (i) in connection with loans for eligible items by the National
Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA, referred to as "downstream") and this bank already
had a system from ASIL 1 for the central collection of supporting documentation; or by
equipment dealers ("upstream") who had to submit their documents to the DPAE for the
grant portion of the sale. The SAR capped ASIL 2 support for the FDA component at
35%. The Legal Agreement also allocated 35% for this component in its Schedule 1 but
made no specific reference to capping. In the revised Schedule 1, after the cancellation
of US$61 million, 46% of the remaining loan was allocated to FDA grants. In the event,
because of their relative ease in disbursement, 60% of the loan amount went to FDA.
This was all the more unsatisfactory that MOA was not operating the FDA according to
2 Morocco switched from a calendar budget year to a split year July-June budget in 1996. The interim
period between the two budgets, January-June 1996, had its own budget.
7



SAR objectives (see para. 35) nor had it implemented the FDA reforms. Rather a cut in
FDA financing was indicated.
20.   The disbursement problem may be seen as the factor which most seriously
affected the project by causing major delays and leading to the cancellation of over half
the loan amount and the premature closing of the loan. Perhaps a stronger commitment
from the Bank and Moroccan authorities to find a solution could have avoided this.
21.   Procurement. Although  model procurement documents, following  Bank
Guidelines, had been prepared and agreed with MOA under ASIL 1, their use remained
very limited for two main reasons. First, the model documents included some deviations
from standard Moroccan procedures (e.g. public bid opening, procurement of consultants
from short list, etc). In 1992, the differences between Bank and Moroccan procedures
had been analyzed at the Country level by GOM and the MENA procurement team and
agreement had been reached that Bank procedures would be applied in Bank-financed
projects. However, MOA services and the Provincial Comptrollers of Expenditure
Commitments (CPED) were mostly not informed of this agreement. Second, MOA had
submitted the model documents to the Central Procurement Commission for approval but
this authority never gave its green light since it had certain hesitations with regard to the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
22.   During a special workshop organized on procurement at the beginning of ASIL 2,
it was agreed that these documents, with some modest revisions, would be used by all
MOA services. A copy of the agreement between GOM and the Bank on procurement
was circulated to all the services concerned at the beginning of 1995. Despite this and
efforts by subsequent supervision nmissions, the model procurement documents were
never consistently applied during the project life. Now, however, the Moroccan
procurement procedures have been revised and allow that, where proj ects are financed by
international institutions, their guidelines may apply.
23.   Project Summaries. As in ASIL 1 analytical project summaries were prepared
according to a standard outline and analyzed to ensure that budget lines included for
ASIL 2 financing met the agreed selection criteria. These have already been referred to
above (para. 9). Suffice to say here that project staff often found it difficult to fill in these
forms given the fact that often the budget lines to be financed consisted of small amounts
and were not projects in the normal sense of the word. In addition, in the provincial
services of MOA, staff often did not understand how to apply the selection criteria and
the social and economic evaluation methodology.
24.   Monitoring & Evaluation. Good work has been done by the MOA and the DPAE
in the physical and financial M&E of the project. The latter largely thanks to
improvements made under ASIL 1. However, with regard to impact evaluation and
development indicators, project staff have confronted problems of methodology, focus,
data collection and treatment. These problems were made worse by a serious under-
funding of this activity. Since it concerns relatively small amounts in the overall budget,
it would seem to indicate a definite lack of priority and interest on the part of MOA. As a
result there is little information available to permit the evaluation of the development
impact of the Loan. This is particularly serious for capital grants under the FDA. To
ensure that these served the objectives of the program (see para. 5) and to improve the
8



targeting of the grants, the ASIL 2 supported the establishment of a monitoring system by
December 1995. Only in 1997 (i.e. after loan funds had already been expended) was
there a major effort by a new Task Manager to activate the study which would provide
the basis for a permanent M&E system for the FDA. At the time of the ICR mission the
study was under way but not yet finished and there is no data available to see to what
extent the SAR objectives for the FDA were met.
25.   Project Management. It would appear that with a strong project management
making a concerted effort with the Bank supervision team, the disbursement problem
above could have been solved and the Loan could have been fully used. It would also
appear that the establishment of a good M&E system is not only a management
responsibility but also in its best interest. It seems that there was a lack of commitment
on the part of the Moroccan project management early on in the project. On the Bank
side, there were three Task Managers in succession working on the project during its
short duration. This lack of continuity would appear to have posed a problem for the
dialogue on sector reforms and consistency in the pursuit of objectives during project
implementation.
26.   Stakeholder Ownership. The ownership of the project among MOA management
and staff seems to have taken a great leap from an interest in ASIL 1 to a desire to close
ASIL 2. An important factor often mentioned by MOA management and staff was the
more complicated disbursement procedures under ASIL 2, which required substantial
additional work without apparent gains. Also, the lack of continuity in the sector
dialogue caused by the frequent changes in Bank staff did not give the stakeholders the
expected benefit that they may have hoped for. The lack of additionality through the
Loan, or at least some sort of safeguard against budget cuts, also certainly took away
some of the interest that the MOA might have had in the project. However, there was no
difference between the two loans in this respect.
G. PROJECT RESULTS AND IMPACT
27.   Since the loan amount was cut in half and the Loan was closed prematurely, SAR
targets for investments financed by the Loan have not been met. However, as there was
no direct link (additionality) between the loan and the investment budget, project
investments continued even after the partial loan cancellation, without Bank financing.
28.   The MOA budgets for 1994, 1995 and first semester 1996, which were the ones
actually supported by the Loan after the partial cancellation, represented 57% of the
1994-1997 budgets for which the Loan was originally sized. The actual budget
allocations for 1994-1997, however, represented 94% of SAR estimates (almost all of this
reduction was for FDA), thus overall budget cuts were rather limited and overall financial
investment targets were nearly met, albeit without Bank financing. Tables Sa and 5b at
the end of the report, give details of the physical investments under the project and of the
results of the reform program.
29.   Although budget cuts for ASIL 2 were rather limited, there was a significant
structural reallocation of resources between subsectors. Irrigation received increased
allocations at the expense of non-irrigation. This despite the fact that the Bank supported
9



an increase in the relative share of dry-land investments.3  On the other hand, all this
increase was for small and medium scale-irrigation which among irrigation investments
would be a Bank priority. Forestry, another sub-sector strongly supported by the Bank,
also saw its share of budget allocations considerably reduced. Other subsectors also
faced important relative changes, and the conclusion must be that the ASIL 2 did not give
the Bank much influence on MOA budget allocations.
30.   No system for measuring the impact of project activities was put in place. For
project investments, indicators of imnpact were never designed and agreed and for the
reform program, indicators proposed in the SAR were never monitored. A study on the
impact of the FDA was still under implementation at the time of writing this ICR. A
major effort was made in a joint FAO/MOA-DPAE study4 to evaluate the impact of the
structural adjustment programn on the development of the agricultural sector. It covers the
period of the early 1980s to 1995. There is little in the study which relates directly to the
ASIL 2 reforms, which on the whole were carried out after the study was completed.
Efforts to give the reader some sense of impact below, therefore, will necessarily have to
be of an anecdotal character or an extrapolation from similar experiences, including some
of the results of the FAO/MOA study where it may be generalized to cover also ASIL 2
reforms. In addition, it must be remembered that the ASIL 2 financed an ongoing
program and many activities were started before, or completed after the Loan.
Impact of Physical Investments
31.   More than one-third of MOA investments under ASIL 2 (excluding FDA) was in
Small and Medium Scale Irrigation (SMSI, about 8,300 ha), including some flood
damage repairs (about 16,700 ha). A supervision mission reported that, in the Marrakech
area, the impact of flood damage repairs was extremely positive having permitted an
increase in the water discharge, allowing the irrigation of a larger area and leading to an
increase in the farmers' incomes in a short period of time. Reports on progress with SMSI
works were mixed but not dissimilar t;o reports from other larger dedicated SMSI projects
financed by the Bank. The ICR for the SMSI 2 project (Loan 2954-MOR, Report 16601,
May 20, 1997) gives economic rates of return varying from 20 to 32% for the various
subprojects. Although it was to early to provide firm estimates on the agricultural
development likely to result from the rehabilitation works, field trips showed evidence of
an intensification of the production system. Farmers indicated that once they can be sure
of permnanent water supply they will increase the area under high value horticultural crops
and fodder and reduce fallow, thereby increasing their incomes. Similar results may be
expected from SMSI investments undLer ASIL 2, which have been executed by the same
MOA Departnents and project staff. Based on a similar average farm size as in
SMSI II, some 7,500 households, or about 45,000 people would benefit from these
works.
32.   About one-quarter of the Bank-financed MOA investment program was for
livestock production: first and foremost for animal health, but also for genetic
improvement and some range-land development. More than 20 million animals are
3 This support was formalized under SAL 2, which included conditionality to this end but although it
remained an underlying objective in ASIL 2, it was not very explicitly stated in the SAR.
4 L' Impact du programme d'ajustement structurel sur le developpement du secteur agricole, Projet
FAO/TCP/MOR4453(A), May 1997
10



estimated to have been vaccinated in each of 1995, 96 and 97. Among the major
campaigns were vaccination against sheep-pox, which has increased from covering 7-8
million sheep (less than 50%) in 19895 to cover between 81 and 85 % (about 14 million
animals) each year 1995-97. About 70% (2.3 million) of the bovine stock was vaccinated
against foot and mouth disease. About 80% of animals in anthrax infested zones were
also treated. Other prophylactic treatment included camel-pox (17,000 camels),
enterotoxemy (5 million goats), rabies (265,000 dogs) and anti-parasitical treatments
(1 million animals). In one way or another, this program would have benefited the vast
majority of livestock owners, which in Morocco would almost equate with the 1.5 million
farmers. Together with the meat inspection program under the project, it would also have
benefited the consumers to the extent that diseases or parasites could be transmitted to
humans.
33.   ASIL 2 investments in forestry were mainly for communication equipment which
has rendered forest operations more efficient and, in particular, improved forest
protection against fires and illicit activities. It has also helped the morale of forest guards
in remote areas by reducing their isolation and improving their security. Under rainfed-
land development, destoning has been carried out on some 8,400 ha and results from an
evaluation of such works6 have shown large increase in productivity with yield increases
of 100-150% for cereals, 46-175% for leguminous crops and 33-100% for vegetables.
Farmers also have been able to extend their area under cultivation by one-third and
switch to higher value crops. Land holders incomes were shown to increase by
overl00%, even up to 500% under favorable circumstances in coastal areas. It may be
estimated that some 2,000 households or 16,000 people benefited from destoning under
the project.
FDA Capital Grants
34.   Irrigation represents about two-thirds of FDA capital grants supported by the
Loan (subsidies mainly for the digging and electrification of wells and irrigation
equipment). Preliminary results from the FDA study show over 20-40% rates of return
on this type of investments and there is no doubt about their impact on production and
farm incomes. Farm equipment represents about a quarter of the FDA component and
simulation models show rates of return of about 15% for tractors and about 40% for
combine harvesters. A study was carried out under ASIL I on the impact of the FDA
program7 but results were disappointing, not very convincing and sometimes misleading.
35.   It is worth examining the FDA objectives brought out in the SAR and attempt to
arrive at some conclusions as to whether they-are met or not. One Task Manager pursued
this question during a supervision mission. After discussions he found "that it was
clearly evident that MOA was not operating the FDA on the SAR objectives, did not fully
agree with these objectives and did not have their clear own objectives of the FDA".
5 Report No 14927 MNA, December 1995: Une Strategie pour le developpement des parcours en zones
arides et semi-arides, Annex II, p 45-46.
6 Operation Eppierrage, Rapport d'Evaluation, MOA, February 1997. The evaluation was made on the
basis of a 10% sample of farmers on 11 work sites representing the major zones in the country. These work
sites covered 31,200 ha (38%) out of the 80,000 ha which had been covered by destoning operations at that
time.
7 The study covered the years 1986 - 1991.
11



This appears to be supported by available information on FDA lending. First, according
to SAR, FDA aims at introducing new technologies which are not widespread in the
country. Consider the type of investments which uses the lion share of the funds,
irrigation wells, tractors, land development, livestock sheds, fruit tree seedlings for soil
conservation, etc. These are all useful investments but do not seem to meet this criterion.
The second criterion mentioned in the SAR was the generation of externalities and these
may indeed exist in a positive sense in some of the investments (soil conservation, water
saving equipment etc) but also rnay be negative in others (labor displacement,
environmental by inducing increased farm chemical use etc). The third criteria was FDA
grants as a means to involve the private sector and reduce the budgetary share in
investments previously carried by the State. This is true in cases like the milk collection
centers, fruit tree seedlings and perhaps some other cases. The fourth and perhaps most
compelling criteria, to transfer income to the poorest farmers, merits special attention.
FDA claims that this criteria is met and show that two-thirds of the funds go to farmers
with less than 20 ha. One may want to consider, though, that this means that fanns with
more than 20 ha, which represent only four percent of the number of farms, receive 33%
of the funds, hardly a resource transfer to the poorest. If one looks at the real small
farmers, those with less then 5 ha land, who represent 80% of the total, the situation is
even worse but the trend has improved since 1991.8
Reform Program
36.   No indicators were monitored for the reform program, nor would they have been
likely to show much change because of the short time since the measures were taken and
because many of them were not comrrplete reforms but mile posts (e.g. draft legislation,
CGG approval, "take initial steps" etc.) en route to the final legislative approval,
executive order and implementation. hi other words, many of the measures included in
the reform matrix were only first or intermediary steps towards the actual reforrn on the
ground. Also, most of the actions under the Loan were not independent reforms but were
part, or remnants, of the overall macro-economic reform and liberalization program
started with SAL 1 in the mid-eighties. Economic reform constitutes a holism where all
the parts need to be in harmony for optimum result and where the impact of individual
measures may not be readily visible, yet they form a necessary part of the whole. This
means that to the extent that project measures formed part of this whole, and they mostly
did, the fact that they were taken must be considered good progress and a satisfactory
result, even if the impact will only be sometime in the future.
37.   The question has been raised whether the reforms would have been taken also
without the loan. This is a difficult question to answer and which is valid for all
adjustment operations and covenanted reforms in investment loans. Presumably the
likelihood of the reform being implernented without a supporting loan increases with the
strength of Government ownership. However, often views are divided in Government
s The study shows that for CNCA distributed FDA subsidies in 1991, the 80% of farmers with less than 5
have received only 23% of the subsidies. The study also finds that a farmer has a greater chance of being
beneficiary of one or several FDA programs the more exposure he has to the outside modem world and if
he belongs to the upper strata in terms of land and animal resources.
12



and arnong other stakeholders.  The process of project preparation may focus the
attention on specific priority reforms and sharpen the arguments for those favoring
reform and help convince those resisting it. Some Moroccan counterparts have argued
that the fact that the Bank backs a reform helps to give it more credibility. Sometimes
reforms need time to gather enough support and momentum to be pushed through and
Bank perseverance can help this process along. Several of the important reforms carried
out under ASIL 2 are of this nature, the ideas dating back to the first sector adjustment
operations (e.g. internal and external trade reforms, land policy).
38.   Among the measures Internal Trade Liberalization had started with the ASALs in
the mid-1980s, but the cereal market still remained controlled and was the focus of the
ASIL measure (except bread wheat). This measure (condition of effectiveness) was met
with the approval of the ONICL law by the CGG in October 1994 and the law was
approved by Parliament in January 1995. The law was important but to some extent only
fornalized a liberalization of the internal cereal market (except bread wheat) which had
already evolved since 1987. The main exception was that ONICL had monopoly on
imports. Nevertheless, the application of the law encountered resistance and multiple
problems (definition of security stock, fate of distant mills, management of transition
period9) which delayed the necessary decrees for its execution until May 1996. There is
no information on what impact this has already had on internal cereal trading but some of
the effects require time. For example, a rationalization of the milling industry is slowed
down by continued Government subsidization of transport cost for another four years.
39.     Concerning the ASIL II measure for the Liberalization of External Trade in
cereals by introducing tariff equivalents, this was also part of GATT requirements and the
law was approved in May 1996. Cereals continue to rely on heavy protection and
Moroccan negotiators had obtained extremely high tariff equivalents in the GATT
agreements (190% for wheat). In order to stabilize the domestic market within a target
price range a two-part tariff system is used. A (lower) base rate is applied to the landed
price and then an additional (higher) rate is applied to the difference between the
threshold price and the landed pricelo. This makes the domestic price responsive to
international price variations, but with a much reduced amplitude. Given the high
protection levels maintained on cereal imports, the FAO/MOA study concludes that the
liberalization measures will bring little change in the short term. In fact with falling
international prices, the producer subsidy equivalent has increased. The effects must
rather be seen in the long term.
40.   Budget execution measures under ASIL II constitute a follow-up to such measures
under ASIL I and they have had a considerable impact on the speed with which the
budget is delegated and its monitoring, which has led to a more efficient use of budgeted
funds. Of measures related to the FDA, "allowing" (providing grants for) private
investments in milk collection centers, has led to private sector involvement. The reform
to limit the number and amount of capital grants that a beneficiary may obtain for each
type of investment has been very ineffective and has not really been carried out in spirit;
only in very few cases are there limits on repetitive investments (wells, drip irrigation and
9 FAO/MOA report, op. cit. p 99.
'0 For example, for wheat the base tariff is 33.5%, the additional tariff is 103.5%, and the threshold price is
2000 DH. If the landed price is 1120 DH (2/1999) the tariff is 1120x0.335+(2000-l,20)xl.035 = 1286 DH.
13



destoning were mentioned)" and where there are limits in the amount, they are very high
(up to DH2 million). An environmental screening unit was established by Ministerial
Note but no resources was given to it for screening of projects, so the inpact of the
measure is negligible.
41.   Measures for privatization of veterinary services started already in the late 1980s
with Bank support and were includecd both in ASIL I and II. As a result the number of
private veterinarians are now 295, well beyond ASIL II's objective of 144.  The
coverage has increased from 50% in 1985 to over 80% in 1997 for cattle and from 39%
in 1985 to 85% in 1997 for sheep. Although the private sector has taken over many of
the state's responsibilities in the veterinary medicine and genetic area, it is not clear if
this has yet led to corresponding reductions in budgetary costs. Measures for Medium
and Small-Scale Irrigation relate to investments under ASIL 2 and are similar to what is
required under the SMSI I and II projects in Morocco. The application of selection
criteria for inclusion in rehabilitation works help ensure the economics of the investment
and the creation of user associations ensure their efficient operations and sustainability.
The new statute for research scientists has been supported by the Bank in previous
projects and its final enactment is a rmajor factor in efforts to establish and retain a high
quality research cadre in agriculture. For Other measures the results are summarized in
Table 5b.
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATION
42.   It is likely that most of the major project results will prove sustainable, since they
consist mainly of private investments (FDA) or ongoing activities and current policies of
the Government. Physical investments in the field under the loan are of many different
types and in many locations, so in an overall assessment of sustainability it must be
understood that this involves some judgement on what constitutes the majority. The
reform program was largely carried out, and is consistent with global economic policy
changes favoring greater liberalization and privatization which are unlikely to be
reversed.  Livestock investments  in animal health and genetics are likely to be
sustainable but will depend on future budget allocation. The sustainability of the range
improvement program is more doubtful due to high population pressure. Measures to
privatize certain veterinary and genetic services are very likely to be sustainable. The
future of both investments and reform measures under the Agricultural Education and
Training program will depend on Government commitment and funding but are likely to
be sustainable. The Rainfed land development component includes destoning which is of
high financial interest to the beneficiary and therefore likely to be sustainable and so is
also access road construction but which will depend on future public funding for
maintenance. Legislation on land issues is likely to be enacted eventually. Investments
under the crop production component involves different new technologies where
sustainability will necessarily vary but the majority (disease tolerant date palms) are
likely to be sustainable; this component also includes investments to render previous,
completed Bank projects sustainable. The sustainability of investments under the plant
protection component will depend on future Government funding for maintenance.
1 Officials claimed that the limnit was the nurmber or amount not number and amount. This is not what the
LA says but interestingly enough it is found in the matrix in the SAR. Conclusion: proofreading does
matter!
14



Investments in small and medium scale irrigation (SMSI) are similar to those of other
such Bank projects and are therefore also likely to be sustainable. The tariff and
domestic trade reform are likely to be sustainable, the first because of GATT membership
and the second because it is in line with overall Government policy. FDA investments
financed by the loan, although varied, are generally likely to be sustainable since the
capital grants accompanied investments by private farmers in projects which were in their
financial interest.
I. BANK PERFORMANCE
43.   Although each TM, given the circumstances, seems to have performed a
satisfactory job, the performance of the Bank, as an institution, was unsatisfactory. Bank
preparation and supervision of the project suffered from an unfortunately frequent change
of Task Managers (TM). One TM prepared and appraised the project. A second TM
took over in July 1994, after Board presentation, a third TM in December 1995 and a
fourth TM was responsible for the preparation of the ICR, from August 199812. Although
each individual strived to do his/her best, they each had to learn anew about the project
from their Moroccan counterparts and their interests and emphasis may have varied
during the supervisions making a sustained dialogue difficult. The Loan would have
benefited from a more stable project team on the Bank side and more regularity in the
supervisions. This would have permitted the dialogue to be pursued with more purpose
and direction. Some reforms require a long gestation period and perseverance and a clear
vision of the final goal will bring it to fruition. Examples are the land policy reforms,
which were initiated under ASAL 1 in the mid-eighties and only gave rise to the
legislative process under ASIL 2, perhaps because the same expert consultant had been
recruited by the various task managers to pursue this issue. A Bank disbursement expert
participated in an early supervision and made a proposal in the aide-memoire for a
simplified system permitting rapid disbursement but there is no evidence that this was
ever followed up upon. The Bank carried out eight supervisions of the project and one
ICR mission after Loan closure. The staffing of the supervision missions (Table 13) did
not adhere much to the supervision plan in the SAR and were generally understaffed in
comparison. This leads to the question whether the supervision plan has other than a
bureaucratic purpose since it is not related to any commitment of funds. It is not clear
whether it was a lack of funds or some other reason that caused the supervision input to
dip from 18 staff-weeks in FY95 to 10 in FY96 and 7 in FY97 and then recover to 12 in
FY98. There was a full year between the supervision in January 1997 and January 1998.
J. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
44.   The performance of the Borrower was marginally satisfactory. Where project
actions and policy reforms were considered important and "owned" by the Borrower and
other stakeholders, these were generally carried out with great diligence and method.
Examples are measures carried out by the livestock services to privatize veterinary and
other services, which exceeded targets and the deregulization of the domestic cereal
market. In other areas such as the introduction of objective criteria for project selection,
impact evaluation and the better targeting of the FDA capital grant scheme, the
12 In fact a fifth person was involved as TM for a brief period in the summer of 1994.
15



ownership was not as prevalent and the efforts have been under-funded and experienced
delays. The monitoring of the implementation of the project's physical investments and
reform measures was satisfactory. The financial budget management and monitoring
systems introduced under ASIL 1 have not only been sustained but also improved. The
disbursements, however, did cause a serious problem and could perhaps have been
facilitated by better coordination between the different agencies involved, MOA, MOF,
CED, the auditors and last but not least, the Bank which bares its share in the burden of
this by its rigid requirements.
K. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
45.   Even though there is still substantial "unfinished business" on the agricultural
policy agenda, notably with respect to irrigation cost recovery, output pricing and public
expenditure priorities, ASIL 2 was an important vehicle in moving this agenda forward.
Technically, since the stated objective was resource transfer to the agricultural sector and
over half of the loan was cancelled, the outcome must be considered unsatisfactory. Yet
this should not hide the fact that most of the reform program was implemented which, by
promoting growth and liberalizing the environment for private sector activity, should
have a substantial positive impact on the development of the rural sector in the future.
Investments under the loan also contributed to sector development and are likely to be
sustainable. Future sector policy dialogue and lending operations are expected to follow-
up on outstanding issues.
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
46.   Loan implementation shows that project objectives need to be clearly defined,
realistic and agreed with the borrower if the outcome is to be successful. Unclear and
unrealistic objectives which have not been agreed upon may result in disappointment and
failure to identify with project goals among stakeholders and lead to lackluster
implementation efforts. Future sector investment loan type operations should also be
more focused on a coherent set of sector or sub-sector investments and policy and
institutional reforms, and there should be more participation by the concerned
Government agencies in their formulation. There needs to be some practical exit
mechanism should important objectives not be met.
47.   Similarly, indicators of development outcome and impact are best agreed with the
stakeholders (and documented in the minutes of the negotiations). A system to measure
these indicators needs to be put in place and would best be included in the project design,
as is mandatory in Bank projects since 1997.
48.   Disbursement procedures and auditing need to be addressed during project
preparation and appraisal to make them as simple as possible and permit rapid
disbursements. Rather than selecting many small unrelated budget lines, future program-
type lending should focus on the expenditures of the key departments involved in the
program, with whom the Bank could also have a continuous dialogue on policy and
institutional reforms as well as investment programming.
16



49.   To the extent that the project's (i.e. the Bank's) procurement procedures (as well
as any other procedures) are different from those normally practiced in the country, these
need to be explicitly agreed with the Borrowers' highest executing authority in the matter
who then need to instruct those responsible for the execution and policing of these
procedures accordingly. Any model procurement documents in a project need to follow
a similar approval and internalization process.
50.    Frequent changes in Bank project team-leaders makes it difficult to maintain a
dialogue on the project with focus and direction and may lead to loss of interest among
stakeholders. Although one should make all possible efforts to institutionalize projects,
people do count.
51    The resources actually made available for supervision should be consistent with
the agreed project supervision plan. This plan should be considered as a commitment by
both management and staff.
17



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        L                        F' 
Sector policies                       x           F:           E7            F
Financial objectives                EZ F                       F               x
Institutional development                         F           
Physical objectives                               F x                         C
Poverty reduction                    ZJ
Gender issues                                                                EK
Other social objectives                                        F T
Environmental objectives                                       F 7x            7
Public sector management                    
Private sector development          LxI 
B. Project sustainability           Likely       Unel         Uncertain
Hi
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
(0)          (N)          (0)
Identification                    L             LI           LI
Preparation assistance            L             LI           L
Appraisal                         LI            LL
Supervision                       LI           LI 
18



Highly      Marginallv
D. Borrower performance            satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation                       [             m            L
Implementation                   [Z             m            L
Covenant compliance              [=            mWz
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactorv   Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv   unsatisfactory
19



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                                      Purpose                               Year of       Status
, : 00 0. ;;fS :: :: 0 Xf:SS .  :;S; f  ; RX t  ;:0: :::: 00 Xapprovaly;i0:0:X 
Preceding operations
I. Loan 1602-MOR          Improve rural income and social well-being of 33,900 farm families in the    FY 1978   Closed
Fes-Karia-Tissa        project area through improvements to research, extension services, credit    06/30/90
Agriculture Project    and input supply, as well as through investments in infrastructure such as
roads, schools, health facilities, and water supply.
2. Loan 1848-MOR          Improve the agricultural systems prevailing in Loukkos watershed into  FY 1980   Closed
Loukkos Rural          sustainable systems by alleviating the destructive effects of soil erosion   December
Development Project    and increasing agricultural productivity and incomes of poor farmers.        1988
Project activities were to serve as a model for wider replication in the Riff
region.
3. Loan 1602-MOR          Increase production of meat, milk and cereals; increase of the rural  FY 1982   Closed
Middle Atlas-Central   population income and employment; and reverse environmental                  December
Area Agricultural      deterioration of forest and rangelands.                                      1990
Development Project
4. Loan 21 10-MOR         Establish plantations to increase the production of pulpwood for the local    FY 1982   Closed
Forestry I Project -   mill and of industrial timber and fuelwood to meet domestic needs and        June 1990
Gharb - Mamora         strengthen planning and management in the sector.
5. Loan 2217-MOR          Improve the living standards of the predominantly rural population living  FY 1983   Closed
Oulmes-Rommani         within the project area through development of agriculture, livestock and    June 1992
Agricultural           forestry and through provision of better social and agriculture services.
Development Project
6. Loan 2253-MOR Small  Support the development of the development of the neglected Small and  FY1983    Closed
and Medium Scale       Medium Scale Irrigation sub-sector through the rehabilitation of five        December
Irrigation Project I   schemes and the preparation of a second-stage project                        1992
7. Loan 2590-MOR          Support the first phase of implementation of the Government's program of   FY 1985   Closed
Agricultural Sector    adjustment in the agricultural sector. The principal objectives of the       June 1987
Adjustment Loan        program were to improve the growth rate in agriculture within the overall
(ASAL 1)               constraints in public resources.
8. Loan 2885-MOR          Support the second phase of implementation of the Govemment's     FY 1987   Closed
Second Agricultural    medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program within the                April 1992
Sector Adjustment     framework of a general macro-economic restructuring program. The
Loan (ASAL 2)          essential objectives are to foster efficient agricultural growth and to
contribute to the reduction of budgetary and current account deficits to
manageable levels.
9. Loan 2954-MOR          Part of a long term program for the rehabilitation of SMSI schemes  FY 1988   Closed
Small and Medium       covering 250,000 ha with the specific aim to rehabilitate 120 such           December
Scale Irrigation 11   schemes covering 32,000 ha, setting up seven mechanical repair brigades       1996
and institutional strengthening
8. Loan 3036-MOR          Support the establishment of efficient national research and extension  FY 1989   Closed
Agricultural Research    institutions for the development and dissemination of improved             June 1996
and Extension Project    agricultural technology so as to increase agricultural productivity,
production of food, livestock and cash crops, and farmers' income
throughout the country.
10. Loan 3156-MOR         To strengthen forestry planning and policies and assist Morocco in  FY 1990   Closed
Second Forestry        maintaining and improving its forestry potential and meet the country's      June 1998
Development Project    wood needs and protect its watersheds in harmony with other demands on
the areas such as domestic stock grazing
20



Table 2 (cont'd): Related Bank Loans/Credits
Locredit title                                 Purpose                               Year of        Status
approval
11. Loan 3403-MOR       To support a 1991/92 time-slice of the agricultural sector investment  FY 1992   Closed
Agricultural Sector    program, to promote essential policy reform measures to improve the      June 1994
Investment Loan     investment process and strengthen MOA's institutional capacity and to
(ASIL 1)            continue implementing key sector policy issues.
Following operations
1. Loan 3935-MOR        Alleviate the impact of the current severe drought by providing: (i) rural  FY 1996   Closed
Emergency Drought   infrastructure (water and roads) to generate income; (ii) agricultural inputs  June 1998
to restore crop production; and (iii) animal feed to safeguard productive
livestock.
2. Loan 5521-MOR        To assist Govemment in promoting comprehensive water management  FY 1998   Ongoing
Water Resources     that is economically efficient, equitable and environmentally sustainable.
Management Project   Specifically the project would support the establishment of an institutional
framework for integrated water resources mgrnt and the creation of a
River Basin Agency, improving water use efficiency and pollution
control.
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in project cycle                  Date planned                      Daw actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project                      -                           June 1992
Sumnary)
Preparation                                            -                          October 1992
Appraisal                                              -                           April 1993
Negotiations                                           -                           May 1994
Board presentation                                    -                             06/23/94
Signing                                               -                             12/05/94
Effectiveness                                  September. 1994                      03/13/95
Midterm review (if applicable)
Project comnpletion                                12/31/98                         06/30/98
Loan closing                                       06/30/99                         06/30/98
21



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative - Esfimated and Actual (US$ '000)
AAXraisal                      tual 
_                        <       Les    oft etimNate 0   revised4 estitmatleC ' A r i a 1l
FY95         7.20             -               0               0               -
FY96        34.00           13.48            40             15.00            90
FY97        70.40           40.31            57             35.00            115
FY98       109.00           52.18            48             55.00            95
FY99       121.00           53.15            44             60.00            89
Date of final disbursement                         11/12/98
22



Table 5a: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation - Physical Investments
Directorate                                        Physical achievments
NON-IRRIGATION
Agricultural Education    11 education centers built and equipment purchased.
(DERD)
Livestock               Vaccination of more than 20 M animals in each of 95, 96 and 97; lab equipment purchase; genetic
(DE)                   improvement; treatment of 7,700 ha of range-lands; sanitary inspection of 360,000 tons of red
meat.
Crop Production         Studies on refrigeration of fruits and legumes, varietal improvement of citrus and tomato exports,
(DPV)               crop production, pedology, land consolidation; distribution of 100,000 olive seedlings for erosion
control, 60,000 date-palm seedlings and establishment of date-palm nursery.
Plant Protection        Plant protection: Construction of administrative buildings (4) and guest quarters (4) in 8 provinces,
(DPVCTRF)               lab equipment. Seed quality: equipment, phone services and works. Pest control: construction of 5
loging units, one administrative unit, remodeling of and occupying offices in 3 DPAs and I
ORMVA, purchase of materials and documentation. Fraud repression: construction of 2 loging units
and remodeling and installation of offices in 2 DPAs, purchase of equipment and supplies.
Land Policy             Establishment of 84 maps, re-establishment of 790,000 border markers, purchase of 44 PCs, 8
(DCFTT)               portables, 170 printers and 80 RAM extensions.
Rainfed Land Dev.       Soil conservation studies for 50,000 ha, land development works in Sebou, destoning on 8340 ha,
(AGR/DAF)               clearing of 1,330 ha from brush.
Forestrv (AEFCS)        Installation of 59 transceiver stations
Planning (DPAE)         Not available
IRRIGATION
Small-Scale             59 operations of small-scale irrigation started on 8,388 ha of which 40 operations are completed; 87
Irrigation              operations on flood damage started on 16,692 ha, of which 64 are completed; 19 operations of land
development downstrearrm of hill dams, including 11 water points for livestock and 1207 ha
irrigation; 2 operations still on-going; completion of feasibility studies (4) and topographical (10)
for 14 perimeters and one study on water tariffs.
1. FDA                  Irrigation of 14,000 ha, digging of 4,963 wells and equipment or electrification of 5,682 wells; land
development of 14,197 ha and 47,664 meters length; equipment of 16,093 ag. exploitations;
construction of 26,265 mn3 cold storage; acquisition of 2.7 m fruit tree seedlings and planting of 1,342
ha citrus; acquisition of 4.530 purebred animals and 510 bee colonies; construction of 52,278m2 and
7,809m2 animal feed storage; acquisition of 52 units of livestock materiel and equipment of 21
dairies.
23



Table 5b: Key Indicators for Proiect Implementation - Reform Measures
2. Measure                                      3. Status
Internal Trade Liberalization                   Done, May 1 1996
(1) Submission to Parliament of mechanisms to
deregulate domestic marketing systems for cereals
(except bread wheat) upstream of the mills.
External Trade Liberalization                   Done
(2) Introduce tariff equivalents for all cereals before
April 1995
Budget execution                                Done but Central Procurement Commission is in process of revising
(3) Establish guide for bidding documents       bidding documents for Morocco
(4) Prepare and introduce "contract monitoring sheets"  Computerization done for DPAE. Experience will be consolidated
in all MOA services                             before extended to other MOA services
(5) Implement a training program in budget execution   Done
for at least two members of each MOA service
FiDA
(6) Introduce ceilings limiting the number or amount   Ceilings are being applied to irrigation (amount per holding) tractors
of each type of investment that an individual can  (per unit) for certain analysis and for refrigeration equipment (per
obtain fort agreed items in the FDA program     unit)
(7) Publish regulation permitting private investments   Done since 1994
in milk collection centers
(8) Design and introduce a permanent monitoring  Partially done. Data has been collected in first phase of study. Second
system to ensure that FDA investments specifically    phase, to design system on the basis of this data in progress
firther the objectives of the program before end 1995
Environmental screening                         Done
(9) Officially establish EMU in MOA under TORs
acceptable to Bank
Livestock
(10) Increase the number of private veterinarians to  Done the number is 295 now.
140, covering 60% of cattle and 45% of sheep
(11) Transfer the responsibility for all Al and bull  Mostly done, 92% of Al and 83% of bull stations had been transferred
stations to cattle breeders associations        by end of 1997
(12) Reduce public expenditure on Al transferred to    Done
25%
(13) Transfer responsibility for herd books to the  Done
cattle breeders associations
(14) Present texts for quality norms for animal feed to  In progress, texts are in process of being promulgated
the Government Council
(15) Present an action plan on producer group   In progress. Transfer of costs will be made through creation of health
participation in the costs of disease control and take    nuclei and control of animal movements. Programs have been
initial steps to implement it                   prepared and legislation is being evaluated.
(16) Take initial steps to implement strategy for range  Various steps have been taken, such as extending monitoring system
improvement                                     for vegetation to seven pastoral zones; preparation and
implementation of, presently, four projects; introduction of stall
feeding to relieve grazing areas and promulgation of law for dryland
development, including pastoral improvement
4. Agricultural education and training!
(17) Undertake at least six training sessions for 30  Done, since December 1994
trainers to begin training program for ag employers
and workers
(18) Create training-employment departments within    Done in September 1994
the agricultural education and training establishments
24



(19) Introduce three training programs for farm  Done in October 1994
managers based on results from "observatories" in
ITA Sidi Mohammed, IAV Agadir and ITH Meknes
(20) Take initial steps to implement a strategy for  In progress, strategy prepared by DERD but will now have to be part
higher education                                of overall strategy being prepared by National Commission on Higher
Education
Forestrv
(21) Hold discussions with Ministry of Interior on  Some progress, texts to modify law will be presented to SGG in the
granting local collectives only the net revenue from  framework of a new forest law under elaboration
sales of forest products, after appropriate costs have
been deducted
(22) Develop proposal and submit decree on new user  Not done but forest law will also address user fees
fees to SGG
Plant protection
(23) Develop and implement a plan to address the  Not done, plan has been prepared but not funded
problem of disposal of storage of old and
deteriorating pesticides
(24) Implement decentralization program to disperse    Not done for lack of funding for new equipment
crop protection equipment to regional centers
throughout the country
Small-scale irrigation
(25) Apply SMSI selection criteria systematically for  Done for the larger schemes, cannot be applied to scattered
all rehabilitation projects                     perimeters.
(26) Adopt principle of creating water user     Done for larger schemes, cannot be applied to scattered rehabilitation
associations in all perimeters selected for
rehabilitation
5. Extension Services
(27) Prepare plan for reorganizing extemal services,    Not done, discussions on future of CTs are under way in MOA
agree with bank and submit plan to SGG
Infrastructure                                  Partially done. MOPW has started to implement program over nine
(28) Before June 30, 1995, MOA with MOPW and    years for 10,000 km tracks on the basis of rolling three-year plans.
local collectives, to prepare and then update, rolling    MOA priorities are partial met in this program. A recently created
plans for a five-year program on farm to market roads  MOA-MOPW committee deals in part with road programming
Reasearch                                       Done, December 1994
(29) Publish regulation on application of the new
statute for research scientists to align their salaries
with those under the statute for higher education
(30) Establish Government accountant positions in  Done, September 1994
Tangiers, Oujda and Agadir.
Land Policy
(31) Re-open inter-ministerial discussion on giving  Done and registration of holdings has started
individual titles to users of collective land
(32) Prepare and submit to SGG, necessary legislation  Done, legislation is with SGG
fQr rural land leases
25



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR for project operation
Table 7: Studies Included in Proiect
Livestock                  Develop a strategy for irnproving  Completed   Strategy is henceforth serving as
ranges including: defining and                basis for all new range
allocating users rights, increasing the       investments
financial participation of producers in
investrnents and range improvements,
and channeling investments in range
improvements exclusively through
active producer organizations
Livestock                  Study the establishment of a reference   Completed   Study has formed basis for
sample for analyzing the economic             legislation for rainfed land
efficiency of different livestock             development and user fees have
systems                                       been accepted by herdsmen
Agricultural Education     Develop and approve a strategy for  In progress  This exercise has been integrated
higher education system in agriculture        into a strategy study by the Minis-
try of Education. No results yet
Plant Protection           Comnpile existing evaluation on the  Completed   Action Plan exists for safe storage
disposal of pesticides into a single          of degraded pesticides but lacks
analysis to serve as basis for action         funding. Final disposal, part of
plan                                           FAO regional study in progress
Crop Production            Determine regulation and           Completed  22 norms published so far.
standardization necessary for
fertilizers
Land Policy                Examnine the financial and         Completed   Agreement signed with CNCA for
institutional implications of a credit        mechanism for funding
window to facilitate land transfers           indivisibility of holdings
between co-heirs
Agricultural Development   Study on monitoring and evaluation  2nd phase   Study expected to be completed
Fund (FDA)              of impact of capital grants        under way   early 1999
26



Table 8A: Proiect Costs (US$ rnillion)
MOA budget 1994-1997                 MOA budget 1994 to Ist semester 1996
AITEPTOALS ESTIATE   ACT-UAsIATEST  Apprasal Estimate  ActuaMatest estimate
ITEM               ToTAL            ETIT
TOTAL
NON-IRRIGATION                    442            381               276                  250
Agricultural Education            44             26                 28                   19
(DERD)
Livestock, DE                     56             49                 35                   30
Crop Production, DPV              56             89                 35                   60
Research, INRA                    29             25                 18                   16
Plant Protection, DPVCTRF         19              17                12                   11
Land Policy, DCFTT                64             56                 40                   42
Rainfed Land Dev't,               54             20                 34                   16
AGR/DAF
Forestry, AEFCS                   91             68                 56                   41
Planning, DPAE                    13             15                  8                    7
Human Resources, DRH               7              5                  4                    3
Administration (DAAJ)              3              8                  2                    2
Public Enterprises, DEPAAP         6               3                 4                    3
IRRIGATION                        436            490                273                  281
Small Scale,                      32            105                 20                   46
AGR/DAHA/DDGI
Large Scale, ORMVAs              404            385                253                  235
FDA
Agric.Dev. Fund                   115             59                 72                   39
TOTAL                             993           930                 621                 570
Foreign Exchange                 417            390                260                  240
(42% as per SAR)
Local costs                       576            540                361                  330
27



Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate 0(A) ctual/latet esti*eai (US$M)
Source              Local     Foreign     Total        Local        Foreign         Total
Costs      costs                    costs        Costs
Government                    400        295        695           N/A           N/A             N/A
OtherDonors                    68          45       113           N/A           N/A             N/A
Bank, excl. ASIL 2             38          26        64           N/A           N/A             N/A
Bank, ASIL2                    70          51       121             31           22               53
TOTAL                         576         417       993            330          240              570
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Due to the large number and many different types of activities supported by the loan, no
detailed economic cost benefit analysis was carried out at appraisal. Instead the economic justification was
based on sirnilar types of activities or models. At completion, it was considered likely that most of the
project supported activities would be sustainable.
28



Table 10: Status of Leeal Covenants
Original   Revised
Covenant Present fulfillment fulfillment     Description of
Agreement   Section     type    status     date       date            covenant               Comments
Loan 3765 2.02(b)         1      NC                           Open Special Account     MinFin could not
reconcile SA with disb.
procedures for this loan
4.01(b)(ii)    1       C    06/30/1996       -     Furnish audit reports    Final report received
5.01(a)        12      C    05/31/94         -     Draft regulation introducing
capital grants to encourage
private sector investments in
milk collection centers
5.01(b)        9       C    04/19/93               Establish environmental
screening unit
5.01(c)        12       C    10/14/94              Govt Council to formally
approve deregulation of
domn marketing system for
cereals (excl. bread wheat)
upstream of mills.
LA        5B              9       CP   01/18/95               MOA to furnish proposed   With the partial loan
Schedule                                                     ag. investm. Progr. For   cancellation, the 1996
following FY             interim budget was the
last that was formally
presented to and approved
by the Bank. This would
exhaust the remain loan
SB             9       C    01/18/95               MOA to furnish detailed
description of all activities
to be carried out during
following FY
5Cl(a)         9        C    12/31/95              MOA to furnish annual
progress reports for Action
Program
5CI(b)         9       NC   10/31/95               Govt to furnish Bank for its Due to partial cancell-
review and cormnentsdraft  ation, loan funds would
plan & timetable for ag.    support only FY94,95 and
sector dev. & efficiency  1996 first semester
improvement for FY96 and  bugets, so MOA has not
FY97.                    drafted dev action plan to
cover FY96 & 97
5Cl(b)         9       CD   12/31/95               Plan to be finalized during   Review of FY96 & 97
such review which shall    plans not conducted since
include examination of   not relevant after partial
tariffs applied to cereals    loan cancellation.
5C2(a)         12      CD   04/01/95               Govt to introduce tarriff    Tariffs introduced May
equvalents on cereals lower 1996
or equal to GATT proposal
5C2(b)         12      CD   04/01/95               Govt to set tarriffs on  Tariffs lower than 90% of
cereals lower or equal to    GATT from the start
90% of GATT proposal
29



Status:
C     - Complied with
CD - Compliance after Delay
NC - Not Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
CP - Complied with Partially
NYD - Not Yet Due
Covenant Class
1. Accounts/audit
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds
4. Counterpart funding
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other
30



Table 11:- Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            tDescribe and comment on lack of conmpliance
Overall, there was compliance with applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                       Planmed                   Revised                 Actual
project cycle
Weeks       US$'000       Weeks      US$'000      Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to             N/A         N/A           N/A         N/A         44.3      146.5
Appraisal
Appraisal                  N/A         N/A           N/A         N/A         24.0       81.0
Negotiations through       N/A         N/A           N/A         N/A         15.7       47.0
Board approval
Supervision                68        N/A              -           -          49.9      192.1
Conpletion                  8          30             -           -          13.9       55.4
TOTAL                    N/A          N/A          N/A          N/A        147.9      522.0
Note: Records on staff inputs were not maintained in format required by table which explains the many N/As
31



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Sla~~~cot ~~Number                                   ecaie       mlret. Dvopn
project cycle   ~Month,'O                   Days, l     StatTskills     atibio        cot                T'ypes of
: 00:u :  0:09    .    0: f: 0$0X;;V00;;3:pesnst       rerecned 0 : Vi   f;2 00  sta%tus  objectivaX es       Problenu
Through appraisal           N/A             N/A        N/A           N/A            -             -
Appraisal through            N/A            N/A        N/A           N/A            -             -
Board approval
Supervision:
I                       June 1994       2          11          AE,E                         I I                M,P
2                     October 1994      4          6         AE,A,P,L          S           HS                    F
3                     January 1995      2          14          AE,D            S            S                   F,P
4                        July 1995      2          14          AE,JE           S            S                    P
5                       April 1996      1          7            AE             S            S                   F,P
6                        June 1996      1          10           AE             S            S                   F,P
7                     January 1997      1          7            AE             S            U                 F,L,BC
8                     January 1998      3          14         E,AE,IE,         S            U                  L,BC
N/A:    Not Available
A: Agriculturist; AE: Agricultural Economist; D: Disbursement Officer; E: Economist; IE: Irrigation Engineer;
P: Procurement Specialist; L: Livestock Specialist.
b/  1: Problem free or minor problems; 2: Moderate problems; 3: Major problems; S: Satisfactory;
U: Unsatisfactory.
C' B: Availability of Budget allocations; BC: Borrower Commitment; F: Availability of funds; L: Legislative
Approval; M: Management.
32



ROYAUME DU MAROC
DEUXIEME PRET AUX INVESTISSEMENTS
DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
(PISA II, PRET 3765-MOR)
MISSION BIRD D'ACHEVEMENT, NOVEMBRE 1998
Aide-Memoire
(version finale)
Une mission de la Banque Mondiale composee de M. Harald Stier a sejourne au
Maroc du 2 au 10 Novembre 1998 en vue de recueillir des informations pour la
preparation du rapport d'achevement du deuxieme pret aux investissements dans le
secteur agricole (PISA II). Avant meme la mission, les directives de la Banque pour la
preparation de rapports d'achevement de projets, ainsi qu'un canevas des informations
necessaires, avaient et6 fournis aux responsables (DPAIE) du PISA II au sein du Ministere
de l'Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et des Peches Maritimes (MADRPM). La
mission s'est entretenue avec toutes les directions du MADRPM concernees par le projet,
ainsi qu'avec des representants des ministeres des Finances et des Affaires Generales du
Gouvemement. Le temps n'a pas permis de visite sur le terrain. A Rabat la mission a axe
les discussions sur les r6sultats des investissements physiques et leurs perennite, les
mesures d'accompagnement du pret, ainsi que l'experience d'execution du pret, le
dialogue avec la Banque, l'utilite du pret et les lecons a tirer pour ameliorer la
performance de projets futurs. La mission tient a remercier les responsables du
Gouvernement Marocain et des directions du MADRPM concernees, pour 1'accueil
chaleureux de la mission et les echanges de vues fructueuses qui contribueront a mieux
illuminer des lecons du PISA II. Un merci particulier est adresse aux responsables du pret
au sein de la DPAE pour leur excellente organisation de la mission. Cet aide-memoire
resume les conclusions preliminaires de la mission. L'aide-memoire n'entend pas faire un
bilan des acquis du PISA II. Ceci se fera dans le rapport final d'achevement. Ici, la
mission souhaite plut6t souligner des problemes et difficultes qu'elle a pu soulever, afin
de les verifier et provoquer la discussion dans les reunions finales avec les collegues
marocains.
Les Objectifs du Pre
Le premier PISA a suivi une periode de reformes macro-economiques appuyees
par la Banque par un pret a l'ajustement (PAS) et deux pr&s pour l'ajustement du secteur
agricole (PASA I & II). I1 a ete formule dans un contexte oii d'importantes reformes
avaient et6 entreprises (reduction de subventions et d6ficit budgetaire, liberalisation des
prix et des regimes de commercialisation et de commerce) sans pour autant etre toutes
terminees. L'accent devait alors etre remis sur la relance des investissements publics et de
les rendre plus efficace pour mieux soutenir les investissements prives incites par



l'environnement economique favorable cree. En meme temps, il fallait continuer les
reformes et les etendre dans les sous-secteurs. Alors, les PISAs, bases sur 1'examen
detaille des depenses du secteur agricole, ont forme une base caract6ristique pour la
strategie de la Banque pour l'assistance sectorielle pour l'agriculture au Maroc. Le PISA I
a, avec succes, finance une partie du budget du Ministere de l'Agriculture 1991-92 et
appuye d'importantes reformes des procedures budgetaires et sous-sectorielles. Le
PISA II devait continuer cet effort dans le meme contexte. L'objectif formul6 du PISA II
etait (i) de fournir un transfert general de ressources au secteur agricole en soutien a un
programme bien concu d'investissements s6lectionnes dans le budget du Ministere de
l'agriculture et; (ii) de soutenir le renforcement de reformes sectorielles et sous-
sectorielles complementaires en mettant l'accent sur les operateurs prives.
Evaluation des Objectifs
L'objectif de transfert general de ressources au secteur agricole parait ne pas
clairement exprimer ce qu'on pourrait en realite esperer de ce pret. En fait, il s'agit d'un
remboursement de d6penses sur des lignes budgetaires convenues sans additionalite
directe. Cependant, il faut noter qu'ert 1995 le PISA II n'a pas vu de reduction globale. du
budget (mais une reallocation du non-irrigue vers I'irrigue) tandis que le budget globale
du MARDPM a ete reduit de 15 % (credits de paiement neufs). En fait le PISA II 6tait le
seul projet Banque en agriculture a rie pas subir de reduction en 1995. Pour les anrnes
suivantes, les lignes budgetaires financees par le PISA paraissent avoir subi leur part de
coupes budgetaires, a l'instar d'autres investissements, sinon plus. En effet, les
contraintes budg6taires ont ete indiquees par les responsables marocaines, comme une
cause majeure pour I'annulation d'une grande partie du pret d6but 1996 et sa ferneture
prematuree. Contrairement aux objectifs, le prat a eu peu d'impact sur les priorit6s
budgetaires, n'a pas fourni des ressources additionnelles aux investissements prioritaires
et n'a pas facilite 1'execution des investissements vises. Aussi pour le Fonds de
Developpement Agricole (FDA), le pret n'a fait que rembourser des subventions aux
investissements prives dans le secteur sans additionalite et avec peu d'effet sur les
priorites.
L'objectif de soutenir le renforcement de reformes sectorielles, d'autre part, est
clair et pertinent et constitue la justification principale de ce type de projet hybride.
D'importantes reformes ont e  r6alisees, a divers degres, dans le cadre du pret comnme la
liberalisation des echanges interieurs et exterieurs et un grand nombre de reformes sous-
sectorielles. A ce stade preliminaire, on peut estimer qu'environ deux tiers des mesures
d'accompagnement ont et& realisees. L'impact de ces mesures d'accompagnement sur le
developpement est aussi mitige par le fait que dans une partie d'entre elles la condition
6tait la soumission d'un projet de legislation (p.e. au SGG), ce qui a ete fait, mais n'a pas
encore ete approuve par les autorites competentes. En fait, le changement de la l6gislation
est un long processus qui n'arrive peut-etre pas a realisation pendant la p6riode d'un
projet relativement court. Ceci n'emp6che pas qu'il faut l'initier, meme si son impact ne
peut pas encore se mesurer en fin du projet. Plusieurs des interlocuteurs de la mission ont
exprime l'importance qu'ils attachaient a mettre des propositions de reformes conmne
2



mesures d'accompagnement a un pret, meme si ce n'6tait que pour souligner son
importance.
Formulation du Pret
La formulation de PISA II a suivi les grandes lignes du modele PISA 1.
Neanmoins, l'execution du PISA I, dans l'ensemble, s'est d6roulee de maniere
satisfaisante. Ce qui ne marchait pas dans le PISA I etait en principe la pour servir de
le,on pour la formulation du PISA II. L'idee des PISAs etait de foumir des ressources au
Ministere de l'Agriculture en finan,ant une tranche de son budget d'investissement ou les
projets sont choisis selon des criteres objectifs et transparents a convenir avec la Banque.
Ce financement par la Banque serait complet& par des mesures d'accompagnement et
offrirait une voie de dialogue sectoriel et sous-sectoriel tres appreie des services du
MADRPM et un appui a leurs propositions de reformes. Les regles de la Banque exigent
l'identification des investissements finances ce qui rendait n6cessaire l'identification et
selection des lignes budgetaires specifiques pour tout financement. Ce besoin d'une
comptabilite et traitement speciale deja rendait la vie plus difficile pour les services du
ministere dans le premier PISA. Grace aux complaintes des auditeurs du PISA I, les
proc6dures de decaissements pour le PISA II etaient modifiees et multipliaient les
manipulations necessaires des pieces justificatives par les services du MADRPM. Des
manuels de decaissement ont 6te pr6pares et les agents comptables ont ete form6s mais
malgre cela, les nouvelles procedures ont cause des retards et meme le refus des agents
comptables assignataires a viser les documents necessaires. Il faut voir aussi que ces
lignes budgetaires sont deleguees sur quelques 170 intervenants dans les services
exterieurs (sous-ordinateurs) et les marches individuels ne representent souvent que des
sommes trop petites pour motiver les agents a des efforts suppl6mentaires. Un autre
probleme enonce par quelques directions, etait le manque de financement lie a certaines
mesures qu'il aurait fallu pour leur realisation pratique. Ceci demontre peut-&re le
manque d'influence que le PISA II a eu sur le budget, tant qu'il s'agit de transfert de
ressources au Ministere de l'Agriculture et tant qu'il s'agit de priorit6s i l'interieur du
budget. Un autre feu d'alerte pour de futurs problemes d'execution du pret, est constitue
par les difficultes de negociations qui n'ont pas abouti a Washington entre les equipes
plut6t techniques et qu'il a fallu l'intervention a plus haut niveau pour finaliser l'accord.
Ce genre d'accords imposes au technicien a souvent tendance a reduire leur adh6rence au
projet, ce qui a un effet negatif sur leurs engagements et efforts pour mener a bien le
projet.
Execution du PrMt
Alors que le programme d'execution du pr&t 6tait prevu pour 1994, sa mise en
vigueur a ete retardee jusqu'au 13 mars 1995 par I'approbation par le Conseil du
Gouvemement des instruments pour la d6regulation du systeme de commercialisation des
c6r&ales (ble tendre except6) en amont des minoteries, et puis par l'avis juridique et la
publication du decret ratifiant l'accord de pret. Neanmoins, les investissements et la
realisation des mesures ont commence comme prevu. A cause du retard de mise en
3



vigueur du pr8t, son financement pour cette annee devait etre r6troactif (maximum 10 %
du pret total, selon les regles de [la Banque) pour toute l'annee plutot que pour le
deuxieme semestre prevu a l'evaluation. Donc, au lieu de financer quelques $28 M en
1994, le pret n'a finance que $12 M (=10 % du pret). Pour faciliter ce decaissement, la
totalite de ce montant etait d6caiss& sur des depenses FDA, oui les procedures etaient
mieux maltris6es. Malgre cela, les premiers decaissements n'ont eu lieu que dans le
deuxieme semestre de 1995. Alors que le budget PISA II pour 1995 etait en ligne avec ce
qui etait prevu, meme 8 % de plus, la partie non-irrigation a vu son budget diminue de
14 %, mais la plupart de ces directions, A l'exception de la DAF (+110 %) et la DPV
(+25 %), ont souffert beaucoup plus et ont vu leur budget reduit d'un tiers. Ces faits
indiquent quton ne peut pas s'attendre a une experience (reelle ou percue) homogene des
directions participant au PISA II.
Dans le deuxieme semestre de 1995 la Banque et le Gouvemement marocain ont
examine l'ensemble du portefeuille de prets et pour r6duire le retard de decaissements par
rapport aux prets accordes (et, entre autres economiser sur les frais d'engagement) une
partie importante des prets, dont $61 M (50 %) pour le PISA II en janvier 1996, a e
annulee. Il est important de savoir que cette annulation provenait des gestionnaires de
1'ensemble du portefeuille du c6te Banque aussi bien qu'au Maroc et les ex6cutants
devaient accepter de voir leurs budgets reduits. Avec cette annulation du pret de moitie,
on avait en fait clos la partie financement de lignes budgetaires car la totalite du pret
restant pouvait theoriquement etre decaiss6 contre des engagements faits des budgets
1994, 1995 et premier semestre 1996 (y inclus les reports de paiements de 1996 a
1996/97). Dans le cadre du PISA H, il restait donc aucun interet, sinon academique, pour
un dialogue sur les budgets 1996 et 1997 qui faisait partie du pret original et pas de
stimuli pour la preparation d'un plan d'action pour ces ann6es comme prevu a
1'evaluation. Tout interet pour le PISA II se trouvait donc dans le passe et il s'agit
maintenant de rassembler les pieces justificatives pour les d6caissements, travail qui
n'inspirait personne.
Comme il a ete exprinm plus haut, il ne s'agit pas de faire le bilan detaiIle du pret
ici. La DPAE doit encore foumir les informations A ce sujet, demandees par la Banque.
N6anmoins, pour garder un peu 1'equilibre, il faut rappeler que, d'une maniere generale,
les investissements ont ete execut6s de maniere satisfaisante et a temps pour les ann6es
1994, 1995 et le premier semestre 1996 que le PISA II a fini par financer, compte tenu
des restructurations budgetaires mentionnees plus haut. Seulement, en ce qui conceme les
decaissements, la partie FDA va largement d6passer les 35 % prevus et atteindra plut6t
les 60 %, grace surtout au fait que le FDA representait le total de d6caissements pour
1994. D'importantes reformes ont aussi ete entreprises dans le cadre du PISA I et deux
tiers du programme de reforme a e  r6alise. I1 n'a pas e  possible pour la mission
d'evaluer l'impact, ni du programrne physique d'investissement, ni du programme de
reformes. Generalement, l'organisation pour ce faire n'existe pas dans le MARDPM. Le
modeste programme prevu dans le DPAE s'est vu couper le budget et pour le FDA une
etude est en cours. La mission a tout de meme demande certains indicateurs aux
directions interessees par le PISA II. La DPAE s'est chargee de leur collecte.
4



Problemes d'execution
Le temps ne permet pas de decrire en detail tous les problemes d' execution du
pr&t et la mission se contentera d'une enum6ration pour la discussion.
Passation de marches: Alors que des documents mod&les avaient ete prepar6s (conformes
aux directives de la Banque) et convenus avec le MADRPM dans le cadre de PISA I,
leurs adoptions ont ete tres limitees. Dans un atelier special sur les march6s, il a et
convenu que ces documents, avec une legere mise A jour, seraient utilises pour le PISA II
par toutes les entites du MADRPM. Un grand nombre des responsables des services
MARDPM ont exprime la difficulte d'appliquer les directives de la Banque, n'ayant pas
e  informes de l'accord du Gouvernement marocain a ce faire. Pour remedier a cette
situation, une copie de cet accord a ete circulee dans les services du MADRPM.
Toutefois, il semble qu'une certaine reticence de la part de la Commission centrale des
marches en ce qui conceme les directives de la Banque, a empeche I'application uniforme
de ces modeles. Une r6vision des reglements de passation de marches vient d'etre
approuvee par les autorites marocaines, selon les rapports en tenant compte des directives
de la Banque, ce qui reste a v6rifier.
Decaissements: Le probleme de decaissement a deja ete enonc6 plus haut. On peut
ajouter que les difficultes de decaissements etaient anticipees lors de l'evaluation et de
gros efforts ont e  exerces par la Banque et les responsables marocains pour y trouver
des solutions. La solution trouvee par le Ministere des Finances et utilisee pour le pret
avait l'avantage de resoudre les problemes d'audit (voir plus haut) mais la Banque et la
DPAE ont prevu qu'en raison de la multiplicite des intervenants et la longueur du circuit
de paiement, il y aurait des retards.
Fiches de projet et applications de criteres objectives de selection: Le rapport
d'evaluation affirme que des fiches de projets analytiques ont e  preparees et analysees
pour conformite avec les criteres de choix convenus. La mission n'a pas pu revoir ces
fiches mais la difficulte de les pr6parer a e  indiquee vu que souvent les lignes
budgetaires financees representaient des petites sommes et non pas des projets. Aussi
dans beaucoup de services exterieurs les agents ne comprennent pas I'application des
criteres et la methodologie d'evaluation.
Suivi & evaluation: Du tres bon travail a e  fait par la DPAE et MADRPM pour le suivi
physique et financier. Quand il s'agit d'evaluation d'impact et indicateurs de
developpement on s'est heurte a beaucoup de problemes de m6thodologie, de focus,
collecte et traitement d'information et sans oublier un manque de fonds. Ce manque de
fonds, en fait est malheureux car il indique ou bien un manque de priorite donnee par les
autorites marocaines, ou bien un manque de confidence a ce qu'on pourra obtenir avec
des ressources raisonnables. Le pret a fait l' objet de deux rapports d' execution l'un en
mars 1997 (couvrant l'annee 1995) et l'autre en avril 1998 (jusqu'a la fin du projet).
5



Gestion du pret: Une partie des difficultes emanent du grand nombre d'intervenants pour
l'execution du pret et la difficulte a leur faire comprendre, ou accepter les nouvelles
procedures attachees au pret (passation de marches, decaissements). Ceci reflete peut-etre
un manque dans la formulation du pret mais aussi une penurie de ressources. I1 y a aussi
un manque de continuite de supervision du c6te Banque (3 charge de projet pendant sa
courte duree) ce qui a pose un proble-me pour le dialogue sur les r6formes et de coherence
de poursuite de but.
Interet des participants au projet: Le manque de ressources supplementaires a travers le
pret, ou au moins plus ou moins garanties contre les coupes budg6taires, a certainement
enleve une partie de l'interet que pourraient avoir les responsables du MARDPM et ses
directions et services exterieurs pour le pret. Les procedures compliquees, demandant
beaucoup de travail supplementaire sans gains apparents, n'ont pas servi a augrnenter cet
interet. Ensuite, le dialogue avec la Banque sur des politiques sectorielles n'a pas et&
r6alise comme l'auraient peut-etre souhaite beaucoup de directions, A cause du manque de
continuite, et de ressources, de la partie Banque. Toujours, les interlocuteurs du
MADRPM ont prefere des projets bien definis et geres par la direction, mais les
directions sans projets ont souvent et satisfaites de pouvoir ouvrir un dialogue avec la
Banque comme dans le cadre des PASAs I & II et PISA I.
Fait a Rabat, le 9 novembre 1998
6



BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION



'L:i:LB SETU A RCL
;AiSltttSt:tAAAt0Ad000000(PISA:A:0000 000  11000  PRE 00::0000:00tUS0H:m0000 3 d 765M OR)t00: 0  U}0CtS   0;0V : :
S00RAPPORT D   CHE VEENT::tCf\Fi
Te:W:XT:f; S: !XX ;X t S X Novemr 1998::E:



SOMMAIRE
INTRODUCTION:
I) Programme dVinvestissement ........................1,.l
II) Execution du pret: ....................... ..       .    .    .    .     2
1) Realisations physiques .................. .......,.2
2) Realisations financires                      .7
3) Mesures et reformes                        .8
4) Etudes.                                                           8
5) Dcaissementct...8
III) Difficultes rencontrees :..                                            10
Annexe  Reformes et actions soutenues par le PISA II1                        1



INTRODUCTION:
Le pret PISA II, fait suite au ler pret d'investissement dans le secteur agricole (PISA I). Le montant de ce
dernier s'eleve a 50 millions de dollars et a eu lieu durant les annees 1991 et 1992.
Le PISA II quant a lui couvre la periode 1994-1997, le montant du pret a ete estime a 121 millions de $ puis
r6duit a 60 millions de dollars en 1995 suite a la revision des montants des projets finances par la BIRD.
Les objectifs principaux du pret sont de fourmir un transfert general des ressources au secteur agricole en
soutien aux progranmmes bien conqu d'investissements publics en fmancant des investissements selectionrms dans le
budget du Ministere de l'Agriculture et de la Mise en Valeur Agricole (MAMVA) ; et de soutenir le renforcement
des reformes sectorielles complementaires en mettant laccent sur les operateurs prives.
Le projet a deux composantes: un programme d'investissement et un programme d'action. La comnposante
investissement finance des rubriques selectionnees dans le budget du MAMVA. Le programmne d'action se compose
dune serie de reformes destinees a ameliorer 1'efficacite dinvestissements choisis ou d'operations dans le secteur.
Ce pret qui vise a soutenir le programme d'investissement du MAMVA concerne les sous secteurs suivants:
- L'Elevage,
- L'Enseignement, la Fornation et la Recherche Agricole,
- La Mise en Valeur en Bour,
- La Production Vegetale,
- La Protection des .Vegetaux,
- Les Eaux et forets
- La Petite et Moyenne Hydraulique,
- La Programmation et les Affaires Economiques,
- Le Fonds de Developpement Agricole.
I- PROGRAMME D'INVESTISSEMENT:
Les rubriques retenues pour etre fmancees par sous secteur sont:
i- Elevage
- Les intrants pour les campagnes de vaccination contre les maladies contagieuses et les equipements de
laboratoire pour le progranmme de sante animale,
- Le materiel de demonstration pour le programme de nutrition animale,
- Les equipements et le materiel pour l'amelioration genetique,
- Les amenliorations dans ram6nagement des parcours.
2- Education, formation et recherche a2ricole
La construction de classes, de laboratoires et l'acquisition de materiel technique et pedagogique.
3- Mise en valeur en bour
Parri les actions retenues on cite : I'pierrage, la construction de pistes d'acces pour les parcelles
remembrees, les etudes liees au remembrement des terres agricoles et les services topographiques, le materiel
inforrnatique et l'etablissement des cartes.
4- Production viOtale
Les rubriques financees sont: les etudes, la promotion de la technologie (exemple : promotion des primeurs
dans la zone c6tiere, distribution de rejets de palmiiers dattiers resistants aux mnaladies et materiels de plantation pour
les demonstrations).
5- Protection v626tale
Le PISA II finance la construction de structures de terrain (ateliers, hangars de stockage, station d'inspection
rurale), le materiel technique (pulverisateurs, caniions, pompes), le conditionnement et l1'tiquetage ameliores des
produits chimiques, la litterature technique et la formation portant sur le traitement des parasites migrateurs.
6- Les Eaux et forets et conservation des sols
Dans ce sous secteur, le pret finance principalement la construction de structures de prevention des incendies
et l'acquisition de moyens de communication pour les gardes forestiers.



2
7- Petite et movenne hydraulique
Le PISA II finance les etudes de faisabilite, quelques travaux publics et quelques reparations a la suite
d'inondations.
8- Pro2rammnation et affaires econoriques
Dans ce domaine le PISA II finance reemploi de consultants pour les etudes agro-econorniques et une part de
1'equipement technique pour les donnees du recensement agricole.
9- Fonds de developpement agricole 1FDA
Le FDA cree en 1986, foumnit des subventions pour le fmnancement d'une partie des investissements prives
dans le secteur agricole.
Le pret PISA II contribue au financement d'une partie des subventions destinees a:
- L'equipement de petite et moyenne irrigation,
- L'equipement de production vegetale (plants, arbres fruitiers, labours),
- L'intensification de l1'levage (reproduction animnale et amelioration genetique).
- L'amelioration fonciere.
II) EXECUTION DU PRET:
La coordination de l'execution du pret est assuree par la DPAE. Ainsi apres l'organisation des jourmnes
d6tudes, la DPAE a mis a la disposition de lensemble des directions concemres par le pret, la documentation y
afferente. ainsi que le manuel de decaissement qui donne les differentes etapes a suivre pour etablir les etats de
decaissement.
Par ailleurs, la DPAE a assure la coordination pour l'ensemble des missions effectuees par la Banque
Mondiale aussi bien chez les directions centrales que chez les services exterieurs et a mis a leur disposition la
documentation et les donnees demandees. En outre, elle a mis i la disposition des auditeurs du pret, la
documentation relative a l'execution de ce pret, leur permettant ainsi de bien mener leurs missions d'audit en
collaboration avec l'ensemble des intervenants.
1) REALISATiONS PHYSIOUES:
a) TRAVAUX DE GENIE RURAL:
Amenagements Hydro-agricoles:
La situation des realisations physiques enregistr6es en date du 30 Juin 1997 au titre du projet PISA U, pour
les lignes budgetaires relevant de la DAHA se resume comme suit:
Travaux de la Petite Hydraulique:
. Nombre d'op6rations prograrnmees         :       59
. Superficie concemre                      :       8388 ha
. Provinces concemres                      :       24
. Nombre d'operations achevees             :      40
. Nombre doperations en cours dexecution   :       19
Pirimktre Neckor:
Les travaux dentretien programmes dans le cadre du Projet PISA II sont acheves.
Reparations des Digits de Crues:
. Nombre d'operations prograrnmmes         :       87
. Superficie concernee                     :       16,692 ha
. Provinces concernees                     :       9
. Nombre d'operations achevees             :       64
. Nombre doperations en cours d'execution  :       23
Moyen Sebou:
L`etat davancement des travaux est le suivant:
. Travaux d'amenagement foncier sont avances a 92% pour le secteur II et 15% pour le secteur III.
. Travaux d'assainissement externes sont realises a un taux de 96%.
. Travaux d'assainissement inteme du secteur II sont avances a un taux de 60%.
Amenagement aI l'Aval des Barrages Ccillinaires:
- Nombre d'operations programmres          :       19
.Abreuvement de cheptel             :       1l
.Reseau dirrigation                 :       1207 ha
- Nombre d'operations en cours             :       2



3
Etudes:
Achevement des etudes suivantes:
- Etude de factibilite des perimetres de l'Oued Mikkes et Oued Ouergha.
- Etude de pedologique au 1/15.000 de Guercif et Sangal.
- Etude topographique d'Asfalou Bab Ouinder et M'Jara Amont.
- Etudes p6dologiques au 1/15.000 de M'Jara (Lot Nl), Bab Ouinder (Lot N2) et Asfalou(Lot N3).
- Etude topographique de Nfifikh et Ain Kwachia.
- Etude de factibilite des perimetres d'irrigation d'Asfalou et du Haut Ouergha.
- Etude de tarification de 1'eau dirrigation.
- Etude pedologique au 1/15.000 Nfifikh.
Amenagements Fonciers:
Les realisations se presentent comnme suit:
- Etudes de conservation des terres agricoles sur 20.500 ha (1995) et 30.000 ha (1996-97).
- Elaboration des dossiers techniques pour l'imrnatriculation de 570 lots de la Reforme Agraire.
- Travaux de lutte contre les degats de crue sur 220 ha (1995) et 1.000 ha (ler semestre 1996).
- Travaux d'epierrage sur 3.660 ha (1995), 2.780 ha (ler semestre 1996) et 1.900 ha (1996-97).
- Travaux de defrichement sur 550 ha (1995), 320 ha (ler semestre 1996) et 460 ha (1996-97).
b) PRODUCTION VEGETALE:
Etudes gin6rales:
Achevement de 1'ensemnble des travaux de I'etude relative a la gestion de la qualite dans la chaine du froid des
fruits et lgumes.
Cette etude a bouti a l'1aboration d'un code marocain de bonnes pratiques qui sera diffuse aupres des
operateurs concemrs.
Wveloppement de Ilhorticulture:
- Etudes:
II a ete proc6d6 a la poursuite des etudes se rapportant a r1amlioration du profil vari6tal des agrumes et a
1'evaluation de la tolerance des varietes des tornates aux attaques de la ceratite.
. Amelioration du profil varintal des agrures:
Les realisations au titre de la deuxieme phase ont porte jusqu'au 30/06/1997 sur:
La poursuite de rassainissement du materiel vegetal destine a la nouvelle collection varietale: 52 varietes
ont e  assainies sur un total de 90 varietes retenues.
La creation d'un parc semencier par la plantation de 614 plants de porte-greffes (18 varietes) et la poursuite
de rop6ration d'indexage des arbres pieds-meres sur lesquels ont ete preleves les greffons.
L'introduction de 27 nouveaux porte-greffes a partir de la Corse pour faire l'objet d'essais de comportement
dans certaines regions agrunmicoles.
La poursuite de l'installation des essais de cornportement des nouveaux clones et varietes dagrumes et des
porte-greffes introduits depuis 1994.
, Agrement des exportations de tomates rouees sur le marche aenricain:
Parmi les produits agricoles frais les plus prometteurs sur les USA, figure la toniate rouge. Cependant, l'acces
de ce produit au marche americain est conditiornn par rabsence d'infestation des fruits par la mouche
mediterran6enne (ceratite).
Compte tenu de riimportance quioccupe la variete DANIELA dans la culture de tomate de primeurs destinme
a l'exportation, des essais relatifs a la tolerance de cette variet6 aux attaques de la ceratite ont ete effectues dans le
cadre d'un marche passe entre la DPV et la SASMA pour une duree de 6 mois a partir du 3 Juillet 1996.
Les travaux realises dans le cadre de ce marche ont porte sur la realisation d'experimentations relatives a:
L'infestation forcee de tomate apres recolte.
. L'infestation forcee de la tomate sur pied.
. L'infestation forcee de la tomate apres recolte a deux stades de maturite differents.
L'infestation forcee de la tomate apres recolte par une population naturelle de mouches.
Les resultats de ces essais ont ete transmis a I'APHIS pour un eventuel agrement des exportations de tomates
rouges, variete DANIELA, sur le marche americain. Sur la base de ce dossier, llUSDA a publie un projet
damendement de la reglementation americaine en vue de radmnission de la tomate rouge marocaine sur ce marche.
C'est ainsi que l'enquete publique s'y rapportant a et realisee et il reste a officialiser ragr6ment au profit du Maroc.
Restructuration du palmier dattier :
Les interventions prevues dans ce cadre concement l'acquisition de vitro-plants de palhnier dattier et leur
retrocession gratuitement aux agriculteurs. Ainsi, il a ete procede a l'acquisition de 59.320 vitro-plants distribues aux
agriculteurs des zones d'Errachidia, Figuig, Guehnim, Ouarzazate, Tantan et Tata.



4
Parallelement a ce programme, il a ete procede au niveau de 1'ORMVA d'Errachidia, au lancement des
travaux pour la mise en place d'une pepinibre specialisee dans la multiplication des plants de pah]nier dattier a partir
des rejets.
Intensification des assolements:
- Etudes sectorielles:
L'etat d'avancement des etudes entreprises s'etablit comme suit:
- Etude sur le developpement et I'amelioration des systemes de preparation du
sol pour les cereales d'automne en bour favorable.
Cette etude a porte sur:
. La synthese des travaux de recherche realiss sa l'chelle nationale et intemationale en matiere
de systemes de preparation du sol;
. La description et l'analyse de la conduite des preparation du sol consistant en la determination
de la problematique liMe aux conb-aintes agronorniques et techniques.
. La conduite d'experimentations appliquees en stations et/ou chez les agriculteurs.
- Etude sur la recherche des methodes de lutte contre ta morelle jaune dans le perimetre du Tadla.
Cette etude, en cours, a permis de mettre au point les resultats de recherche sur les methodes de lutte qui
consistent en la combinaison des differents produits chimiques dans differents biotopes.
- Etude de l'intensification du prograname de recherche visant l'amelioration de la productivite des
cultures oleagineuses annuelles (tournesol et colza):
Les principaux resultats preliminaires obtenus se resument comme suit:
. Evaluation de 14 hybrides et 6 varietes populations de toumesol (rendement, teneur en huile) ainsi que
les aptitudes a la recombinaison des lignees en cours de fixation de 50 genotypes (bonne adaptation,
productivite, duree du cycle,...).
. DOtermination d'une formule de fertilisation phospho-azotee du toumesol basee sur les analyses du sol.
. La place du tournesol dans une rotation culturale avec le bl ; les 1lgumineuses et la jachere.
. Determination de la periode de competition des mauvaises herbes pour la culture du colza (a partir de la
46me semaine apres le semis).
. Determination de l'poque et de technique de recolte du colza.
- Etude relative a l'observatoire technico-6conomique des principales productions vegetales.
Cette etude, menee avec l'appui du bureau d'etudes "Agro-concept" pour une duree de 12 mois, a pour objet
la conception et la mise en place d'un systeme de suivi technico-economique pour les principales productions
vegetales. Celle-ci est organisee en trois phases:
Phase 1:    Definition du contenu et de l'organisation de l'observatoire (duree 2 mois).
Phase 2:    Mise en place de l'observatoire (duree 5 mois).
Phase 3:    Publication des resultats et evaluation de l'observatoire (dur6e 5 mois).
- Les realisations se resument conmie suit:
. Achevement de la deuxieme phase de l1'tude.
. Demarrage de la troisieme phase de l'etude et reception provisoire des 3 rapports prevus dans le cadre de
cette phase a savoir:
- Le document methodologie contenant le cadre de depouillement et de sortie des tableaux ainsi que les
indicateurs techniques et economiques,
- Le rapport type des resultats representes par la betterave a sucre,
- Le document methodologique de la constitution et de l'utilisation de la base des donnees agro-
economiques.
Etudes PWdolo2iques:
Les realisations pour l'exercice 1996/97 ont conceme rach6vement de 1'etude pedologique au 1/100.000 sur
290.000 ha dans la province de Taza. Ainsi les realisations cumulees a ce jour portent sur 6.000.000 ha environ
touchant 21 provinces.
Etudes de Remembrement:
Lexercice 1996/97 a connu la poursuite cles etudes d'execution de remembrement dans les provinces de
Taza, Khemisset, Larache et Taounate sur une superficie de 35.000 ha.
La situation par secteur est la suivante:
. Secteur de Tabla : Province de Taza.
La prise de I'avant projet est en cours.
. Secteur de Ouad Amlil : Province de Taza.
L'etude generale et le canevas d'amenagement sont receptionmes definitivement.
. Secteur de A-in Sbit (10.000 ha) : Province de Taounate
L'elaboration de l'avant projet est en cours.
. Secteur de Arbaa-Avacha (5.000 ha): Province de Larache



L'e1aboration de I'avant projet est encours.
. Secteur d'ouled Ayad (10.000 ha): Province de Taounate
L'elaboration de I'avant projet est en cours.
Maintenance des Projets:
Les realisations dans le cadre de la maintenance des projets ont porte sur:
. La distribution de 100.000 plants d!olives pour la D.R.S fruitiere en faveur de la province de Chefchaoun
PMV de Loukkos (25.000 plants), la province de khemisset PMV de Ou1m&s-Rormnani (25.000 plants)
et la province de Fes, PMV de Fes-Karia-Tissa (50.000 plants).
. Lacquisition de 50.000 plants d'olives destines a la DRS fruitiere pour le programme de 1997/98 dans la
province de Taounate PMV des Fes-Karia-Tissa avec la contribution des agriculteurs par 20% lors de la
distribution.
. La poursuite des operations d'encadrement des agriculteurs en faveur de la province de Chefchaouen,
PMV de Loukkos, la province d'El Hoceima, PMV de Ris-N'kore (encadrement en irrigue associb aux
suivis des essais demonstratifs), la province de Khemisset, PMV d'Oulnes-Rormnani et la province de
Fes, PMV de Fes-Karia-Tissa.
c) TRAVAUX TOPOGRAPHIQUES:
Les realisations physiques en matieres de travaux topographiques se presentent comme suit:
Travaux Topographigues:
. Etablissement de 84 cartes au 1/25.000
. Retablissement de 790.290 bomes.
Informatique:
Les realisations concernent principalement:
. Acquisition de 44 micro-ordinateurs.
. Acquisition de 8 micro-ordinateurs portables.
. Acquisition de 156 imnprimantes matricielles et 14 iniprimantes lasers.
. Realisation de 80 operations d'extension de la RAM.
d) PROTECTION DES VEGETAUX, CONTROLES TECHNIQUES ET REPRESSION DES FRAUDES:
Les realisations physiques relevant de la DPVCTRF dans le cadre du PISA II se presentent comme suit:
Protection des  yetaux:
- Achevement de la construction de batiments administratifs dans les provinces d'AI HoceLma,
Fes, Ouarzazate et Safi et d'un bloc de 4 chambres d'h6tes dans les provinces d'Azrou, d'Ifrane,
El kelaa et Figuig.
- Travaux d'amenagement des services de la Protection des Vegetaux a Fes et Tetouan.
- Achat de materiel de laboratoire pour les services centraux.
Contr6le des semences et plants:
- Acquisition de materiel et fournitures de laboratoire tels que : etuves refrigerees, agitateurs et
doseurs d'humidite.
- Installation et mise en place du systeme telephonique (services centraux).
- Achat de materiel technique de laboratoire (service centraux).
- Travaux d'amenagement a Rabat et a El Jadida.
Lutte contre les rongeurs et les oiseaux nuisibles:
- Achevement de la construction de 3 logements a la Station de Quarantaine Vegetale de
Bouznika.
- Achat de fournitures de bureau pour les services centraux et 31 services exterieurs.
- Construction dun bloc administratif a Figuig.
- Construction de logements administratifs dans les DPA d'Agadir et Nador.
- Travaux d'amenagement et d&installation dans les DPA de Beni-Mellal, El kelaa, Ifrane et a
l'ORMVA de Tafilalet.
- Achat de materiel technique pour la DPA de Marrakech.
- Achat de 40.000 sacs enpolythene et 50.000 sachets en kraft pour les services centraux.
- Achat de diverses documentations selon les besoins des services.
Repression des fraudes:
- Construction de logements administratifs dans les DPA de Boulemane et Khenifra.
- Divers travaux d'amrnagement et d!installation au service de la repression des fraudes de Safi et
Tdtouan.
- Achat de fournitures et documentation pour 32 services de la repression des fraudes.
- Achat de materiel technique pour les prelevements et la conservation des echanfillons.



6
- Achat de fournitures de bureau et abonnement aux revues scientifiques.
- Achat de materiel technique didactique pour la fornation du personnel.
e) ENSEIGNEMENT, RECHERCHE ET DEVELOPPEMENT:
Les realisations physiques relevant de la DERD dans le cadre du PISA II se resument comme suit:
Genie civil:
Les constructions ont concem6 les batiments administratifs, les logements, les classes et les internats.
- Construction des centres de fonnation et de recherche a Missour, Ben kerrich, Errachidia et Ifrane;
- Construction des centres de formnation continue aux ITAs de Meknes (ITH), Souihla, ZraYb, Bouknadel
et a l'ecole d'agriculture de Temara;
- Construction des lycees agricoles de Fkih Ben Saleh et Oued Amnill.
Divers travaux d'amrnagement et dinfrastructure ont he egalement realis6s dans les differents
etablissements d'enseignement agricole et professionnel (ENFI, CQA, ITA).
Materiel:
Acquisition de plusieurs lots de materiel d'intemat, p6dagogique, de laboratoire, d'informatique ainsi que le
mobilier du bureau particulierement pour les centres nouvellement construits.
Etudes et recherches:
Realisation de plusieurs etudes d'evaluation, de diagnostic, de faisabilite, de techniques culturales, de
conservation et de comrnercialisation.
f) PRODUCTION ANIMALE:
Les realisations physiques enregistrees dans le cadre de la production animale au titre du PISA II de 1995
a juin 1997 se presentent comme suit:
Dfense et protection du cheptel:
Realisation de differentes carnpagnes nationales de vaccination telles que:
- En 1995:
. Vaccination de 83% du cheptel ovin national contre la clavelee et 71% du cheptel bovin contre la
fievre aphteuse.
. Vaccination de 483.860 bovins, ovins et caprins contre les charbons, soit 80% des animaux au
niveau des zones reconnues charbonneuses.
. Vaccination de 16.890 camelines contre la variole cameline.
. Vaccination de 4.792.590 caprins et ovins contre l'enterotoxemie.
. Vaccination de 264739 chiens contre la rage.
- En 1996:
. Vaccination de 81.8% du cheptel ovin national contre la clavelee et 69.2% du cheptel bovin contre la
fievre aphteuse.
. Vaccination de 5.792.590 caprins et ovins contre renterotoxemie.
. Vaccination de 667.224 bovins, ovins et caprins contre les charbons, soit 85% des animaux au niveau
des zones reconnues charbonneuses.
. Traitement antiparasitaire exteme de 1.082.000 bovins, ovins et caprins.
. Tuberculination de 30.000 bovins.
- Du 1/01/1997 au 1/06/1997:
. Vaccination de 85.2% du cheptel ovin national contre la clavelee ovine.
Vaccination de 450.860 bovins, ovins et caprins contre les charbons, soit 78% des animaux au
niveau des zones reconmues charbonneuses.
Equipement des laboratoires vterinaires:
Acquisition du materiel de laboratoire pour l'equipement du laboratoire National de Contr6le des
Medicaments Vt&rinaires et des Laboratoires Regionaux dAnalyses et de Recherches Veterinaires.
Acquisition de produits et reactifs de laboratoire necessaires pour le diagnostic des maladies
animales et le contr6le des denrees animales et d'origine aninale.
Amelioration g6n6tique:
- Realisation d'une etude sur le developpement de l1'1evage bovin allaitant: race Santa Gertrudis et
race Oulmrs-Zadr.
- Construction d'une station de monte a Oujda.
- Acquisition de materiel de contr6le laitier.
- Amenagement de la station apicole de Lalla Mimouna.
- Acquisition de materiel technique apicole : materiel d'elevage des reines d'abeilles.
- L'octroi d'une subvention aux groupements d'eleveurs (ANOC et ANEB).



Intensification des ressources alimentaires:
. Plantation de 1700 ha de parcours en arbustes fourragers dans les perimetres de mise en valeur en
bour de Mesteghmer (Oujda) et Oued Fennan (Khouribga) et le perimetre de Tafrata (Taza).
Mise en defens de 6000 ha (5000 ha a Taza et 1000 ha a Oujda).
. Ensemencement de 50 ha (Khouribga).
. Creation de 5 points d'eau (Khouribga).
Hvgiene et inspection:
- Achat de materiel d'estampillage des viandes:
L'inspection sanitaire et qualitative des denrees animales et d'origine animale a concern : 363.000
Tonnes de viandes rouges aux abattoirs municipaux et ruraux, soit 100% des viandes presentees a
l'inspection sanitaire.
- Achat de materiel de prelevement:
Les investigations analytiques ont porte sur 45.000 prdlevements d'echantillons de denrees anirnales
et d'origine aniniales et d'aliments destines a l'alimentation animale. Ces prelevements sont analyses
aux Laboratoires Regionaux d'Analyses et de Recherches Vetrinaires de Casablanca, Marrakech,
Agadir, Tanger, Fes et Oujda. Environ 87% des prelevements sont realises par les services
veterinaires.
g) ADMINISTRATION DES EAUX ET FORETS ET DE LA CONSERVATION DES SOLS:
Les realisations physiques au niveau de ce sous-secteur consistent en racquisition et installation de 59 postes
emetteurs-recepteurs. Ce materiel a ete install dans les centres de developpement forestier de Taza-Sud, Tahla, Al
hociema et Guercif.
h) FONDS DE DEVELOPPEMENT AGRICOLE:
Le Fonds de Developpement Agricole (FDA) jouant le role d'incitateur a l'investissement prive dans le
secteur agricole, se caracterise par une large couverture des oprations susceptibles d'accroitre la productivite des
exploitations agricoles, tant dans les regions irriguees que dans le bour et les regions montagneuses. Ces operations
portent sur:
- L'amenagement des proprietes agricoles (amnnagements hydro-agricoles et ameliorations foncieres);
- L'equipement des exploitations agricoles (tracteur, materiel agricole, unites de stockage, de conservation et
de conditionnement des produits agricoles);
- L'intensification de la production animale (amelioration genetique, batiments et materiel d'elevage);
- Lintensification de la production vegetale (acquisition de plants fruitiers, utilisation des semences
selectionnees de cereales,...);
- La promotion des exportations agricoles par voie aerienne.
Les subventions distribuees aux agriculteurs ayant fait l'objet de proposition de decaissement correspondent
aux realisations physiques suivantes:
- L'amenagement hydro-agricole de 14.433 ha, le creusement de 4.963 puits et forages et 1`6quipement ou
lI'lectrification de 5.682 puits et forages;
- L'amnlioration fonciere de 14.197 ha et 47.664 metres lineaires;
- L'equipement des exploitations agricoles en 16.093 unites de materiel agricole;
La construction et 1'equipement de 26.265 r3 d'unites de conservation par le froid des produits agricoles;
- L'acquisition de 2,7 millions de plants fruitiers et la plantation de 1.342 ha d'agrumes;
- L'acquisition de 4.530 tetes animaux de race et 510 unites de ruchettes de reines;
- La construction de 52.278 m2en batiments d'6levage, 6.776 m2 en magasin de stockage d'aliments de
betail et une capacite de 1.033 m3 sous forme de silos d'ensilage et reservoirs a melasse;
- L'acquisition de 52 unites de materiel d'elevage et l'equipement de 21 laiteries.
2) REALISATIONS FINANCIJRES:
L'execution de ce pret coincidait avec une periode de restriction budgetaire. Ainsi, certaines reorientations
de l'investissement ont donne la priorite a la consolidation des projets en cours d'execution et a la rationalisation
des depenses publiques avec la r6duction des depenses de fonctionnement. Par consequent, certaines rubriques du
PISA II qui comprenaient plusieurs depenses de fonctionnement n!ont pas e  suffisamment dotees telles que achat
de vehicules, achat de carburant, frais de deplacement et les etudes. Toutefois, le gouvernement a essaye de
maintenir la coherence des objectifs du pret en alimentant les autres rubriques en credits suffisants.
Les credits alloues a ce pret durant la periode d'execution du pret, (1994 aii ler sem. 1996) s'elevent a
889,2 Millions DH, le tableau ci-apres nous donne la situation financiere du pret.



8
3) MESURES ET REFORMES:
La majorite des mesures et reformes ont ete realisees. Toutefois, certaines d'entre elles ont accuse un retard
car leur execution depend de l'intervention de plusieurs  departements comme le montre lteat d'avancement,
presente en annexe, des mesures et reformes executees lors de ce pret.
Plusieurs reformes ont vu leur application, notanmuent celles relatives a l'organisation des.structures
d'interventions aussi bien pour les services centraux que pour ceux de l'ext6rieur, et celles relatives aux aspects
budgetaires avec la nomination de la DPAE comme ordonnateur principal du budget du Ministere de l'Agriculture.
Cette organisation a eu un impact positif sur la mise en place des credits. En effet, les services exterieurs disposent
des lors de la totalite des credits a partir du 3esme mois de l'exercice budgetaire, de meme l'ex6cution budgetaire a
ete amelioree aussi bien pour les credits d'engagement que pour les credits d'emissions. Cette am6lioration a ete
obtenue egalement grace aux stages de formation organises au profit de l'ensemble des intervenants dans
l'execution du budget et aux efforts deployes par la DPAE en matiere de preparation et de suivi budgetaire.
4) LES ETUDES:
Le pret a soutenu l'ex6cution de certaines etudes au niveau des sous-secteurs d'elevage, d'enseignement
agricole, de la protection des vegetaux, de 1a production veg&tale, des amenagements fonciers et du FDA. La
situation de l1ex6cution de ces 6tudes est pr6sentee dans le tableau ci-dessous:
ETUDES ENTREPRISES DANS
LE CADRE DU PISA 11
Sous-Secteur      Agence                         Etudes                      Date de                  Resultats
d'ex6cution                                                 realisati
on
DE       Developper une strategie pour ameliorer les               Les conclusions de l'tude sont prises en
parcours, comprenant: definition et allocation des       consideration dans les programmes de mise
droits des usagers, augmnentation de la participation    en valeur des parcours.
financiere des producteurs aux investissements et  1995
aux am6liorations des parcours, et canalisation des
investissements exclusivement i travers les
ELEVAGE                         associations actives de producteurs.
DE       Etude de la mise en place d'un reseau d'exploitation      Une version provisoire du logiciel en cours
de ref6rences pour analyser l'efficacit6 economique  en cours   d'essais et de verification. Par la suite, ce
des differents svstnmes d'elevage.                       logiciel sera distribue aux DPA et ORMVA.
ENSEIGNEMEN         DERD        Valider une strategie pour le systeme de       en cours
T AGRICOLE                      1'enseignement superieur.
PROTECTION        DPVCTRF    Compiler les evaluation existantes sur l'evaluation         La solution i ce probleme depasse les
VEGETALE                        des pesticides en une analyse unique qui servira de  Achevee   moyens et la responsabilit6 de la DPVCTRF.
base a un plan d'action.
PRODUCTION           DPV        Determiner la normalisation et reglementation    1997     22 normes ont ete homologuees
VEGETALE                        requises pour les engrais.                               4 normes sont en cours dhomologation.
QUESTIONS            DAF        Examiner les implications institutionnelles et           La regularisation des problemes fonciers
FONCIERES                       financieres d'un creneau de credit pour faciliter les  en cours   necessite la creation dun fonds foncier, dont
transferts de terres entre co-heritiers.                 les modalites de creation et de gestion sont
en cours d'etude par le comite de suivi.
FDA                 DPAE        Suivi et evaluation d'impact du FDA.           en cours   Les resultats de lMtude vont aider i evaluer
Il'impact des subventions du FDA.
5) Dcaissement du pret:
Afin d'atteindre les objectifs du pret, l1ensemnble des intervenants ont ete associes pour preparer le lancement
du projet. Ainsi, au debut de lPex6cution, une journee d'etudes a ete organisee pour l1ensemble des intervenants
(Directions Techniques du Ministere de l'Agricudture, Direction du Budget du Ministire des Finances et 'Inspection
Generale des Finances avec la participation dmune mnission de la Banque Mondiale). Au cours de cette journee,
l'ensemble des contraintes rencontrees lors de l'execution du PISA I ont ete discutees. Ces discussions ont porte sur
les aspects de dotations budgetaires, du decaissement et de la diffiusion de l'information relative a ce pret.
Ainsi, il a ete decide d'etablir une procelure speciale pour le decaissement de ce pret. Cette procedure peut
etre resumee co-mme suit:
a) Elaborer, par l'entit6 administrative concernee, des situations des emissions par rubrique budgetaire
financee par le PISA II et par categorie de depenses prevues par l'accord de pret dont les taux de financement sont
presentes ci-dessous:



9
1) Travaux de genie civil (TGC)                          85
2) Foumitures (F)                                        90
3) Programne de d6veloppernent agricole (FDA)            95
4) Services de consultants, etudes, et formation (SCEF)  100
Cette situation trirnestrielle retracera uniquement les emissions par rubrique budgetaire concemant une seule
categorie de depense. Elle est transmise a la Direction du MAMVA a laquelle relevent les depenses en question
apres avoir ete approuvee et visee par le comptable assignataire et rordonnateur de la depense.
b) Etablir par chaque Direction Centrale des situations synthetiques des 6niissions par rubrique budgetaire et
categorie de depenses sur la base des situations citees ci-dessus:
- Transmnission de ces situations a la Direction de la Progranunation et des Affaires Economiques (DPAE).
c) La DPAE prepare une situation synthetique a envoyer au Ministere des finances pour la transmettre a la
Banque mondiale.
Ainsi, suivant cette procedure, le montant decaisse jusquiau 30/10/98, selon les demandes de depenses
etablies au niveau de la DPAE, s'e1lve 481,1 Millions de DH.
Le tableau ci-dessous retrace le rytlie des decaissements effectues de Juillet 1995 au mois d'Octobre 1998.
le Ierau21 Juillet95         180.121.164,89       95.139.775,7
le 2me au 22 Novembre 95      13.802.242,31      12.491.279,77
le 3emeau II Juin96          128.526.151,90     121.215.111,75
le 4Qme au 25 Septembre 96    48.827.505,07      43.550.744,48
le 5Sme au 17 Mars 97         92.650.309,00      83.748.593,13
le 6eme au 23 Juillet 97     42.798.522,47       39.265.508,51
le 7eme au 27 Mai 98          81.890.545,36      76.776.947,82
le 8eme au 22 Octobre 98      10.557.411,03       9.092.631,12
TOTAL               599.173.852,03      481.117.705,6
Le tableau recapitulatif presente ci-contre donme la situation des decaissements par Direction montre
quenviron 87%  de la totalite des decaissements a ete effectuee au profit du FDA, de rAdministration du Genie
Rural et de la Direction d'Elevage. La partie retrospective qui represente 10% de la valeur initiale du pret a et
decaisse entierement sur le FDA etant donne le retard accuse dans 1'op6ration de decaissement. En fait, ce montant
represente 19,8% du montant total decaiss6.
Ainsi, la ventilation des decaissements par annee se presente conume suit:
1994                                    :         19,8%
1995                                    :        44,5%
ler semestre 1996                       :         17,2%
Report ler semestre 96/1996-97           :        18,5%
Le pret a finance 115 lignes budgetaires relevant des budgets de rinvestissement de 10 directions centrales,
en plus des rubriques du FDA. Ainsi, 8 demandes de decaissement ont et etablies englobant 101 etats de depenses.
La reparation des decaissements par categorie de depense se presente comme suit:
- Travaux de Genie Civil                 :        19,1%
-Founitures                                       11,1%
- Etudes                                 :        7,6%
- FDA                                    :        62,2%



10
m- DTFFCULTES RENCONTREES ET LECONS T1RiES DE CE PRET:
Le pr8t PISA 2, finance une multitude d'actions dispersees interessant plusieurs activites agricoles, ce qui
rend difficile le suivi et rlvaluation des realisations de ce programme. L'execution est assuree par plusieurs sous-
ordonnateurs (200) eparpilles dans tout le pays, le montant des credits alloues a certaines actions est par fois
minime, ne depassant pas quelques milliers de dirhams.
Par ailleurs, les credits alloues au pret ne sont pas identifies dans la nomenclature budgetaire en tant que
rubrique individualisee. Plusieurs rubriques n'ont pas ete dotees en cr6dits suite aux nouvelles orientations en
matiere de priorite budgetaire telles que les etudes, et les constructions. Cette situation s'est traduite en une vision
negative sur le pret, et a conduit certains intervenants a considerer l'ex6cution du pret comme une tache
supplementaire.
En ce qui conceme les decaissements, la procedure utilisee a privilegie les besoins de l'audit au detriment du
decaissement proprement dit du pret; en effet vu le nombre eleve des signataires des 6tats de depenses ainsi que les
etapes intermrdiaires par lesquels doivent passer ces etats, la DPAE a passe beaucoup de temps a corriger les etats
erron6s. Cette situation n'a fait que ralentir le rythme de decaissement, de telle sorte que nous etions obliges en
commun accord avec la Banque Mondiale de faire recours davantage aux depenses du FDA.
Puisqu'il ne s'agit pas dun projet classique dans une zone delimit&e avec des composantes Limitees , la lecon
qu'on peut tirer a travers le decaissement de ce pret, c'est qu'il fallait 6tablir une procedure simple avec moins
d'intervenants. En outre les exigences de l'audit classique qui consistent a verifier toutes les pieces justificatives des
depenses relatives aux prets ne devaient pas etre appliquees a ce genre de pret, etant donne la dispersion dans
1'espace des intervenants, la diversite des depenses et parfois leurs faibles valeurs. Ainsi, fallait-il rnieux se contenter
du contrble en vigueur au niveau national (contr6leur des depenses, et le comptable national).
Le pret etait prevu a l'origine de soutenir les actions de developpement et d'arnlioration du secteur agricole.
A cet effet, des mesures et reformes ayant pour objectif laugmentation de lFefficacit6 des actions devaient etre prises
simnultan6ment avec un fnancement soutenu des programmes de ces actions en question. Or, durant l1ex6cution de
ce pret, le soutien financier na pas accompagne, au niveau souhaite, les efforts deployes pour faire aboutir les
mesures institutionnelles. Le pret a ete reduit de 121 a 60 millions de $, alors que la matrice des mesures et reformes
institutionnelles n'a pas ete modifiee ce qui pourrait diminuer les effets positifs attendus des resultats de ce genre de
pret.
S'agissant des relations entretenues avec la Banque Mondiale durant l'execution de ce pret, elles etaient
satisfaisantes. En effet nous avons pu trouver ensemble des solutions aux problemes poses aussi bien pour les
aspects de mesures et reformes que pour les aspects de decaissement du pre. Cependant, il y aurait et souhaitable
que la Banque Mondiale garde le meme charge de projet durant toute la periode de l'ex6cution.



11
REFORMES ET ACTIONS SOUTENUES PAR LE PISA 11
Avant le 31 d6cembre 1994                        1              avant le31 ddcernbre 1995                                             Rdalisations
Lib6ralisation des echanses int6rieurs                                     Soumission au Parlement des instruments pour la      Fait (a partir du I mai, 1996)
d6rd6ulation du systere de commercialisation de toutes
les cer6ales (A l'exception du bId tendre) en amont des
minoteries (elimination des licences et des marges fixes
pqur le stockage, transport et revente ; et liberte aux
minoteries d'acheter ou elles le ddsirent).
Introduire des equivalents tarifaires pour toutes les  Fait: voir Decret no. 2-96-302 du 4 mai 1996.
c&rWales avant le I er avril 1995.
Exdcution du budaet
Etablir un guide des dossiers d'appel doffres                                                                                   L-e guide a etd etabli et distribu6 aux differents intervenants dans lexecution du
budget. La rnvision des documents d'appels d'offres types est en cours au niveau
de la commission centrale des march6s.
Exdcuter un programme pour so mois deux membres dehacun des services do     Etendre le programme aux services ddtachds et inroduire   Fait
MAMVA ( irections Centrales et services de terrain).                        une formation r6gulihre pour les nouveaux membres du
personnel.
Introduire un systeme permanent de suivi informatias des march6s et des depenses au   Etendre le systeme A toutes les Directions Centrales du  1!6tude de l'inforsnatisation du systeme au niveau du Service Administratif dea l
sein de la DPAE.                                                            MAMVA.                                              DPAE est faite. Cette experience sera consolidde avant d'Atendre cette approche
aux autres directions centrales.
FDA
PadFrer les textes relatifs au plafond limitant le montant ou le nombre de chaque  1ntroduire un plafond liniitant le montant ou le nombre  Les seuils sont en application pour les am6nagements hydro-agricoles (montant
type d'investissement quoun individu peut obtenir pour les objets dMinis d'un  de chaquetype d"invastssement qu'un individu peut  par exploitation), les tracteurs (montant par unitl), pour certaines analyses et pour
commun accord.                                                              obtenir pour les objets ddfinis don commun accord.  las Aquipements frigonfiques (niontant par unite).
Publier un arr*d pour permettre au secteur priv d'invesar dans les centres de  Miseen place don systemepermanentdesuivi poor    Le d6cret est publie et le secteurprivd recoit des avantages du FDA depuis 1994.
collecte du lait dans le cadre du FDA.                                      assurer que les investssements do FDA favorisent dune
iacn elea objectifs do progn     avant le 30    La plupart des donn6es n6cessaires sont disponibles et informatisas au niveau de la
jise en oeuvre do systeme avant le 31  DPAE et de la CNCA.
I                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~decembre 1995..:
Eleva                                                                      I) Augmenter le nombre des veterinaires A 140, de   Le nombre de vetdrinaires mandates du secteur prive sd6ldve A 295.
maniere A couvrir 60 pour cent des bovins et 45 pour
cent des ovins.
2) Transf6rer Ia responsabilit6 des circuits d'lA et des  . 92% d'IA ont AtA transf&rd A 20 groupements dAleveurs en fin 1997.
stations de monte selon les modalit6s suivantes: (i) pour
les groupements d'6leveurs constitu6s avant le ter janvier   . 83% des stations de monte bovine sont transf6rdes a des groupements d'Aleveurs
1995, 5 ans apres leur constitution; et (ii) pour les  en fin 1997.
oupements d'eeveurs constituds apres Ie ler janvier
t99 4 ans apres leur constitution.
3) R6duire les d6penses publics d'IA A 25 pour cent des  Fait (voir note circulaire No.5697 DE/DPA/SAG en date du 23 Juin 1995 A
cofits totaux dans les circuits transf6r&s aux groupements   cornpter de Juillet 1996). Les groupements prennent en charges tous les ftais de
dWleveurs priv&s                                    gestion et d'application de l'IA sur le terrain. L6tat met a la*disposition de ces
groopements les techniciens insaminateurs et les doses de semences produits
loca ement dont le couit est environ 25 A 30% du coOt total de 'IA.
Fait pour les ovins;
Pour les bovins, textes vis6s et en instance de publication au bulletin officiel.



12
4) Transferer la responsabilites des livres genealogiques  Les projets de deciets relatifs a la fabrication la d6tention, to vente et au contr6le
des troupeaux aux associations d'eleveurs.              des aliments, des aliments supplementes, et des additifs destines A l'alimentation
des animaux, sont en cours de promulgation.
5) Pr6senter des textes relatifs aux nomies de qualite de
l'alimentation anirnales au Conseil du Gouvemen ent.
Presenter une reflexion sur la participahion des groupements de producteurs dans le  6) Presenter un plan d'action base sur la reflexion avant  Le transfert des activites passera par la creation de noyaux d'assainissement vis A
cadre de prophylaxie des maladies ; types d'associations de producteurs concemds a  le 30 juin 1995; et prendre les rnesures initiales pour  vis des maladies contagieuses majeures (Tuberculose-Brucellose) et la maitrise de
participer et niveau de recouvrement des cofts.                                  entreprendre le plan d'action.                           la circulation des animaux par leur identification. Des progranmnes de lutte ont ete
elabores et la legislation concemant ces deux principales maladies ainsi que
l'identification sont en cours d'evaluation.
7) Prendre les mesures initiales pour mettre en oeuvre la    Extension du systeme de suivi de la dynamique de la vegetation A sept zones
strategie d'amelioration des parcours.                  pastorales.
Elaboration et mise en place de psojets de developpement pastoral conform6ment
aux recommandations de la strategie:                                           I
- Projet de developpement pastoral et de I'Elevage dans toriental.
- Projet de developpement rural de Taountii Tafourghaft.
- Pro3et de developpernent rural dans le Tafilalet et Dades.
- Projet de gestion des ressources naturelles dans la province de Taza.
Organisation de la pratiquce dembouche pour contribuer A souslager les parcours.
Promulgation de la loi 33-94 pour la mise en valeur des temes en bour, zone
d'amelioration pastorale. Les arr8t&s d'application sont en couis de visas.
Enseissement et formation agricoles                                                                                                       Realise en Decembre 1994.
1) Entreprendre un minimuni de six sessions de formation pour 30 formateurs, pour
entanmer la realisation du programme de formation pour les employes et la main
d'oeuvre agricole.
2) Creation au sein des etablissements denseignement agricole des Departements de
Fomiation-Enmploi.
3) introduire trois programmes de formation pour les chefs d'exploitation sur la base                                                     Crees en Septembre 1994 et operationnels depuis cette date.
des resultats de 1observatoire dans trois institutions : ITA Prince Sidi Mohamed, IAV
Agadir et ITH Meknes.                                                                                                                     Introduits en Octobre 1994.
4) Prendre les mnesures initiales d'execution de la     Reflexions en cours dans le cadre des travaux de la Commission Nationale de
strategie pour lenseignement superieur.                 I'Enseignement Superieur.
Forets
Entamer des discussions avec le Ministere de LInterieur en vue dexaminer la                                                               Projets de textes modificatifs des articles du Dahir du 20-09-76 afferents aux
possibilite de restituer aux Collectivites Locales seulenient les revenues nets des                                                       recettes forestieres sera presente A niveau au S.G.G dans le cadre d'une loi
ventes des produits forestiers, apres deduction des coOts approprins.                                                                     forestiere.
Developper une proposition pour appliquer le systerme de frais d'usage et proposer un    Soumettre le projet de decret au SGG.            La loi forestiere inclut aussi les dispositions relatives aux frais d'usage.
niveau de frais nouveaux; preparer le decret requis pour changer la oi.
Protection v etale
D      per un plan d'action pour regler le probleme du stockage des pesticides base  Prendre des mesures supplementaires pour mettre en   Linventaire a demontre que les pesticides perimes ou qui ne sont plus perras
sutr tun etude de compilation, prendre les mesures initiales pour executer le plan.  oeuvre le plan d'action.                             d'utiliser sont stockes dans des lieux differents et sous ls tutelle de differentes
entites. Par consequent, la solution A cc probleme depasse les responsabilites et les
moyens de la DPVCTRF.



13
PeIhdrauliue                                                                    Mettre en oeuvre un programme de decentralisation pour   la DPVCTRF considere que c'est le renforcement des centres r6gionaux et pas la
) Appilque systemtiquennent les critAres de selecthon du PMH n i tous les projets    disperser le materiel e protection des cultures aux  decentralisation des equipements a Sale qui est prioritaire. En outre, les moyens ne
de rehabilitation.                                                              centres regionaux dans tout le pays.                   suffisent pas pour achever ce renforcement.
2) Appliquer le principe de creation des associabons d'irrigants dans les perimetres  Poursuivre l'applicaton systematique des criteres de  plique depuisjuillet 1994 pour l'amenagement hydro-agricole des perimptres
s ectionnes pour rehabilitation.  sdlection du PlH 11 a tous les projets de rehabilitation.                                            Neckor, Oued Mellal et la Moyen Sebou. Ces criteres ne peuvent 8tre appliques
pour les perimetres diffus.
Poursuivre lapplication du systeme de creation         App1ique partiellement depuisjuillet 1994.
d'association  inigants.
Vuliansation
Soumission A la Banque d'un schema de reorganisation des services ext&fieurs.   Soumission au SGG du projet d'arrete.                  Des discussion sont en cours au niveau du Ministere de l'Agriculture sur le devenir
des CT et sur les missions et les fonctions des agents de la vulgarisation.
Infrastructures                                                                 I) Le MAMVA preparera en collaboration avec le MTP      Le MTP a mis en oeuvre un plan sur neufans de 10,000 km de pistes, sur la base
et les Collectivites Locales un proiet de programme de 5    d'une programmation mobile sur trois ans. Les priorites du MAMVA sont
ans sur les besoins en pistes dacces avant le 30juin   partiellenent inclues dans cc plan.
1995.                                                  Un Comite de Coordination, recemment cree par le MAMVA et le MTP, traite en
partie la programmation dans le domaine routier.
Voir ci-dessus.
2 Programnme mobile sur cinq ans a etre remis a jour   Fait avril 1994.
cnaque arnnee.
PIler   arretees d'application du nouveau statut des chercheurs pour aligner leurs
salaires sur ceux de l'enseignement sup6rieur.
Faitsaeptembre 1994.
D6signer des fondes de pouvoir dEtat A Tanger, Oujda et Agadir.
Affaires.foneirs
R teentammer lesdiscussions intenminist6rielles sur le fait de donner les titres de  Commencer la preparation en collaboration avec les  L'operation d'immtriculation (iffmatriculadon des terres collectives, publication
propriete individuels aux usagers des terres collectives.                       autres Ministeres concernms dun projet de loi en ce sens.   des listes d'ayants-droit, lotissenient, etablissement des arret6s de lotissement,
inmatriculation des lots issues des lotssenents) est avancee dans I'ORMVA du
Gharb. Quant aux cinq autns ORMVA, 'operation d'idendification des trrs
collectives na debute q@un lanvier 1995.
Pr6parer un projet de loi qui conceme specifiquement les baux ruraux.           Soumtttre le projet de loi au SGG.                      Le projet loi a ete finalis6 par une commission interminist6riel et transmis au SGG.



14/06,'99 LUN 09:18 FAX 63901              BANQUE MONDIALE RABAT                          00o2
2O 4.lUa du M.m
LIF ' -4    4 j 3i ,    5 ' lWl 1 )I ~j
M;nisie dc VAgicuAIreu, dus DdvcIoppcmcnt Rural ct dcs Pecbcs Maduimc
N .......DPAE/DPB/S}RJ.                            Ra, le
OB.};: .T   Rapport d'achevement du Second Pret d'Investissement dans le
Secteur Agricole (Pret n'3156 MOR).
.REf BR:  Votre envoi n'OG/KS/991095 du 12 Mai 1999.
Monsieur,
Suite a votre envoi ci-dessus r6f&rence relatif au rapport
d'ac:- -vement du Second Pret d'Investissement dans le Secteur Agricc.e,. j'ai
1'houLaeur de vous faire parvenir ci-joint, une note d'observaticrmns du
Minist6re de l'Agriculture, du Developpement Rural et des Peches Maritimes
au su :t du rapport en question.
Veuillez, agreer Monsieur 1'expression de mes sal. tations
distingu6es.
MerxI. auuF lo- we    t Rulat
de la Banque Mondiale                          OheU        desh       LsWMs
_Rqhqcr~ecr taire Gfendral
Re~~u  &egqJUk~~~~19B9 ~A gdeIadiI1_ L tIAFI
R eu  i e 0 4.J j      999 
DIRECUTON DE LA PR.OAbRAIrNET D&S AFASECONOMIQWE              4L Yl 4j3=)           l sJS
AVENUE EHASSAN D Km 4 - STATION DEDsAGH RABAT                Jfl,Ji t4j iJIA . p  ,Wk ,>Jd4  J
Tel Standard: (07) -69-02-15116 -Fax: (07) 69-g4-91     (07) 69-84-1 : ,,.UlU (07) 69-02-15/16: 3S&



NOTE D'OBSERVATIONS SUR LE RAPORT D'ACHFVEMENT
DU SECQND PRET D'INEST[SSEMENT
DANS LE SECTEUR AGRICOLE
Le present rapport retrace les diff6rentes etapes de 1'ex6cution du pret et
donne une appreciation objective sur le comportement des diff6rents
intervenants dans 1'ex6cution y compris la bauique elle meme. Cependant,
I 'exarnrn de ce rapport souleve les observations suivaates:
1) Observations Cen6rales:
- Le PISA n a &t6 pr6vu pour couvrir la periode de 1994 a 1997, le morntant
de: ^ pret a ete estime a 121 millions de $ puis r6duit a 60 millions eui 1995.
D'acres la situation comptable effecta6e pendant les deux premieres anndes
du -arojet et le Icr semestre 1996 le montant qui restait A d6caisser pouvait
etre satisfait par les engagements rdalises pendant cette p6riode. Toutefois, si
une partie du pret n'a pas dt6 d6caissee cela n'incornbe pas au personnel
charge du d6caissement, mais plutot aux proc6dures de d6caissement et
notamment au refus des comptables assignataires a viser les 6tats de
decaissement present6s par les sous-ordonnateurs malgre les instrLLctions
6ri.es par le Tresorier GCn6ral a ce sujet.
,a DPAE en collaboration avec les directions centrales a orgwiis6 des
j eumdes pour expliquer les objectifs du pret, la s6lection des projets ou
programmes A soutenir par ce pr6t ainsi cue la proc6dure de
C lcaissement. Ont particip6 a ces joumees le personnel des services
c xt;rieurs et des ecoles de formation charge de l'execution du pret



2
Durant l'execution de ce pret, il n'a pas ete constate6 que le personnel de
services exterieurs ne maitrise pas le choix des criteres de seIection des
actions ou programmes.
- Concemnant le systeme d'6valuation, il aurait &t6 souhaitable de prevoir au
moinent de 1'6valuation du prEt un systeme de suivi-4valuation  anrretant
aussi bien les composantes a suivre que les indicateurs afin que tous les
int:.rvenants participent a cette activite.
- E, .matiere de subventions octroyees dans le cadre du FDA, les objectifs
fix6s par le rapport d'evaluation du PISA II ont e  atteints ; en effet:
* L'introduction de nouvelles technologies: cet objectif a ete satUfait en
particulier pour la composante << irrigation ), du moment o'i une
technologie de pointe en mati'ere d'irrigation, visant 1'economie d'eau, a
e introduite et installee. I1 en est de meme pour l'acquisition du itiat6riel
d elevage et sp6cialement les stations de traite qui ont pu &re dotees de
materiel sophistiqu;
* L'effet induit positif de certains investissements s'est fait seCrid  au
ni-veau de F'irrigation avec la notion de << rationalisation et d'economie
d'eau >> et au niveau de l'arboriculture par l'aspect << environnement >>
(conservation du sol, micro-climat,...).



3
La transition d'un financement assure entierement par l'Etat A un
financement pris en charge par le secteur prive est bien appr6ciee au
rniveau des operations d'anm6nagements hydro-agricoles dont la r6alisation
par le pnrve revient moins chere que par l'Etat et permet donc un
a2:gement significatif de la charge budgetaire supportee par 1fEtat. La
contribution de I'Etat a ces op6kations est de 10 ou 30%.
* Le transfert de revenu aux plus d6munis: les petites exploitations
b6n6ficient globalement de plus de 70% du montant total des subventions
servies et encore plus au niveau de certaines rubriques. A titre d'exemple,
J; part de ces petites exploitations a atteint 80% pour l'arboriculture, 84%
pour la production animale et 72% pour les operations d'amenagement
h- dro-agricoles et ameliorations foncieres.
2) Observations particulieres:
En e qui concerme les observations particulieres, elies se pr6sentent comme
suit:
En page 25:
Les chiffies du tableau n04 relatif aux decaissements sont a expiimer en
mnillions au lieu de milliers de $ EU.
En page 26:
- Mettre pour la rubrique politique fonciere (ACFCC). < Leve
topographique de 790.000 bomes de propriit6s>> au lieu de
c R&tablissement de 790.000 bomes frontires >.



4
En page 29:
Mettre dans les mesures de reforme relatives au statut foncier < Dans
l'irrigue, l'individualisation des lots est en cours, toutefois les titres
fonciers ne sont non encore etablis. En bour, I'etude de la revision des
textes est en cours >> au lieu de < Realisee, L'enregistrement des
parcelles a commence >>.
En page 30: Etudes incluses dans le projet:
Mettre << Examinef les implications fi ncieres et institutionnelles d'un
credit foncier pour faciliter les transferts fonciers entre coh6iftiers >>
au lieu de < Examiner les implications fonci&res et institutio-nelles
d'un guichet de credit pour faciliter les transferts fonciers entre
coheritiers >>.
- Mettre o Convention signe'e entre le Minist6re de I'Economnie et des
Finances et la CNCA pour le financement des sorties d'indivision> au
lieu de <<Accord signs avec la CNCA  pour le m6canisrme de
financement des parcelles indivisibles >.



