Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4345-BR
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$500.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
June 5, 1986
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS a/
US$1.00             -       CZ$13.80 (February 28, 1986)
CZ$1.00                     USS$0.072464 (February 28, 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil    =    January 1 to December 31
Project                  =    January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
AGF        -         Aquisigao do Governo Federal
(Federal Purchases at Minimum Price)
CACEX      -         Carteira de Comercio Exterior
(Foreign Trade Agency of the Bank of Brdzil)
CFP        -         Companhia de Financiamento da Producao
(Production Finance Company)
EGF        -         Emprestimos do Governo Federal
(Federal Marketing Credit)
GDP        -         Gross Domestic Product
IBGE       -         Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics)
ICM                  Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercaderias
(Tax on Gross Value)
LIBOR      -         London Interbank Offer Rate
LTN        -         Letras do Tesouro Nacional
(Treasury Bills)
ORTN       -         Obrigagoes Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury)
PB         -         Participating Bank
SEAP       -         Secretaria de Abastecimento e Pregos
(Secretariat of Supplies and Price)
SEPLAN     -         Secretaria de Planejamento
(Planning Ministry)
a/ A new currency, the Cruzado, equal to 1,000 cruzeiros, was introduced
effective February 28, 1986, at the exchange rate shown above. The cruzeiro
will continue to be legal tender until March 1, 1987, but will be devalued
against the Cruzado at a daily rate of 0.45% starting February 28, 1986.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:          Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing
Agencies:           The Central Bank of Brazil
Ministry of Planning (SEPLAN)
Amount:            US$500 million equivalent.
Terms:             Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project
Description:       The project is designed to support several of the policy
changes needed in Brazil's program of structural
adjustment. Its primary objectives would be to support
the process of making the agricultural credit system more
market-oriented and of reducing rural credit subsidies,
ana to bring about a reform in trade and pricing policy
for key agricultural commodities. To meet these,
objectives, the project would support important changes in
Government policies affecting interest rates on official
rural credit; trade and price controls; risk management
and financing for holders of agricultural stocks; and
market information systems. The loan would be disbursed
in two tranches, of US$300 million and US$200 million,
respectively. All of the first tranche and US$100 million
of the second tranche would be used to finance general
imports. Of the balance of US$100 million, US$75 million
would be used to fund a new dollar-denominated line of
credit (PROSTOCK) similar to the existing Bank-financed
PROEXPORT credit line, but devoted to providing
much-needed finance for comodities held for the domestic
market. The other US$25 million would be made available
to finance equipment and technical assistance for the
development of new marketing instruments and a continued
program of agricultural policy studies.
Risks:             The long-term prospects for agricultural trade
liberalization, and for maintaining appropriate credit
policies, have been substantially enhanced by the new
stabilization program adopted last February. It
|7hbdocumn nhafia rswited ditbuuon nd may be uwdby reapients only  the pfonmance of
|theirofliK* duum Its contents maynot otherwe be dbdaosdwitbout WorldBank authorntion.



- ii-
should be noted, however, that the policy conditions of
second tranche release require progress towards the
removal of the price controls which have been temporarily
imposed as a part of the stabilization program. This
could be delayed if the program does not succeed in
keeping inflation firmly under control, or if the
Government perceives that the removal of controls will
result in a sharp acceleration of inflation. This risk is
considered manageable in view of the Government's
determination to bring inflation under control, coupled
with strong popular support for the stabilization
program. The initial results of this program have been
positive. As indicated in para. 15 of this report, the
economic measures being undertaken are likely to provide
increased stability to the Brazilian economy.
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY        1987      1988       1989
-    (US$ millions)
Annual           450         40         10
Cumulative       450       490        500
Rate of Return:    u.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No staff appraisal report has been prepared for this
project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$500 MILLION
TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
Credit and Marketing Reform loan to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the
equivalent of US$500 million. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic report entitled "Brazil:  Country Economic Memorandum"
(Report No. 5373-BR, dated February 26, 1985) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 7, 1985.                          %
3.        Brazil's Government changed in March 1985 following indirect
elections in January for the first civilian president in 21 years. This
completed a major stage of the return to a fully democratic government and
involved a change in regime as well as administration, re-establishing the
authority of elected Federal and State representatives throughout Brazil. In
this changed environment the inability of the successful presidential
candidate, Mr. Tancredo Neves, to take office, created a crisis for the new
Government.  On Mr. Neves' death in April 1985, Vice-President Jose Sarney
became President and has since faced the task of pursuing the objectives
stated by Mr. Neves, while also establishing his own authority in the New
Republic.
4.        The Sarney government is committed to a program of reform, economic
growth and inflation control, with a strong social and anti-poverty
orientation. Its first National Development Plan for 1986-89, presented to
Congress in November 1985, stresses social objectives including the gradual
recovery of real wages and, among Government programs, a concentration on
improving health, nutrition and housing for low-income Brazilians. Reform of
the public sector is a strategic objective. The Government intends to
concentrate more on 'traditional" functions, such as the provision of social
services and basic infrastructure, leaving directly productive activities
increasingly for private sector initiative. Given population growth of 2.2%
1/  Parts I and II of this report are similar to those of the President's
Report for the Public Sector Management Project (Report No. P-4336-BR,
dated May 29, 1986).



-2-
p.a., and a more rapid increase in the labor force, the Plan states as an
essential condition a return to GDP growth of at least 6Z a year. Three
major stabilization aims are embodied in the Plan: reductions in the public
sector deficit, renegotiation of the external debt, and the control of
inflation.
Recent Economic Performance
5.        Brazil achieved a remarkable 112 average annual growth in real GDP
in the years 1967 to 1973, with declining domestic inflation and a
significant liberalization of both foreign and domestic trade. Further
substantial growth occurred in the years from 1974 to 1980, at an annual
average rate of 7X, but in greatly changed circumstances. Following the
large increases in 1973 in the price of imported oil, the international
recession, and the sharp deterioration in the terms of trade, successive
Brazilian governments sought to maintain output and employment growth through
policies characterized by generous credit and tax incentives for industrial
and agricultural exports and import substitution; rising import barriers;
investment in domestic energy resources to substitute for imported oil; the
expansion of state enterprises; and heavy foreign borrowing. Between 1975
and 1980, Brazil's medium- and long-term debt more than doubled from US$23.5
billion to US$56.5 billion, with total obligations of approximately US$70
billion, including short-term debt. The efforts to redress the external
imbalance after 1974 created strong internal pressures and increased
inflation. The economy remained vulnerable to external shocks, and when
further increases in oil prices occurred in 1979 and 1980, and international
interest rates increased, the current account deficit more than doubled to
US$12.4 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110%.
6.        Stabilization measures, relying heavily on monetary policy,
resulted in a decline of GDP in 1981, ending the long period of sustained
growth. Incipient recovery was checked in 1982 by a combination of external
developments, including declining world commodity prices, economic problems
of some major trading partners, and regional events leading to the debt
crisis of August 1982. Faced with the loss of its reserves, the reluctance
of foreign banks to roll over existing loans or extend new credits, and bleak
international market prospects, Brazil sought assistance from the Inter-
national Monetary Fund in support of an intensified adjustment program.  In
February 1983, the IMF approved Extended Fund Facility and compensatory
financing arrangements, for a total amount equivalent to about US$5.4 billion
for the 1983-85 period. Associated with this were commercial bank commit-
ments for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rescheduling of US$4.6
billion in loan repayments due in 1983, and other measures of financial
support. A similar agreement for 1984 provided, inter alia, for the re-
scheduling of US$4.7 billion in loan repayments, and the commitment of US$6.4
billion in new commercial bank loans.
7.        With this support, and through adjustment measures which included a
30% devaluation of the crnzeiro early in 1983, import restrictions, and tight
monetary and fiscal restraints, Brazil weathered its foreign exchange
crisis. A trade surplus of US$6.5 billion was achieved in 1983 as imports
declined by 21% and exports increased by 9%; the current account deficit was
reduced from US$14.8 billion in 1982 (equivalent to about 5% of GDP) to
US$6.2 billion in 1983.



- 3 -
8.        The short-run cost of these adjustments was nevertheless high.
Inflation reached 211% in 1983 as a whole, exacerbated by crop shortages,
very high real interest rates, and the effects of devaluation. Real GDP fell
by 3.2% in 1983, with the greatest reductions concentrated in the industrial
and commercial sectors. Per capita GDP declined by over 12X during 1981-83
and industrial employment by over 20%, with the largest reductions in incomes
and employment concentrated in the main industrial centers. Much of the
social progress made in the 1970s-when all income groups gained from
economic growth and the expansion of education, health, housing and urban and
rural deve'opment programs--was undermined by the recession.
9.        The recovery began in 1984.  Balance-of-payments performance was
again highly positive, aided by exchange rate changes which fully accounted
for domestic inflation and by the strong growth of the US economy. An
unprecedented trade surplus of US$13.1 billion was generated. Although total
imports, especially of oil, continued to fall, much of this surplus resulted
from export expansion. Measured in current US dollars, total exports for
1984 were 23% greater than in 1983; the comparable increase for industrial
exports was 37%. Reflecting the favorable trade performance, and substantial
net capital inflows, Brazil's international reserve position also improved
markedly in 1984 with a net increase of over US$7 billion. Sparked by the
export resurgence, GDP for 1984 is estimated to have grown by 4.5% in real
terms, or over 2% per capita.  The increase in manufacturing exports helped
industrial recovery, despite the fact that for most sectors the proportion of
total output which is exported remained small. Overall expansion was still
inhibited by depressed domestic market conditions, high inflation (224%), and
real interest rates of 30-40%.
10.       In 1985, GDP growth accelerated and is estimated to have reached
8.3% in real terms for the year as a whole. The recovery was led by
industry, which expanded by an estimated 9.0%, though investment spending
remained low. Industrial employment increased by 6%. Open unemployment
declined significantly in 1985, in the major urban centers. Agriculture
expanded by an estimated 8.8%, contributing both to the balance of payments
and to domestic supply. Temporary price restraints imposed by the new
Government resulted in a reduction in price increases from nearly 12% a month
in the first quarter of 1985 to 7.6% in the second. Subsequent increases,
however, brought the 1985 annual rate to 235%. Externally, the trade surplus
amounted to over US$12.4 billion, the current account deficit was about 0.5%
of GDP, and gross international reserves remained at a level equivalent to
about 8 months of imports.
11.       The high GDP growth of 1985 was achieved by relaxing demand
policies in the belief that the increased demand could be absorbed by the
substantial excess capacity in the economy. The public sector deficit,
adjusted for monetary correction, increased from 1.6% of GDP in 1984 to about
3.5% in 1985. Generous wage settlements in the organized industrial sector,
including partial quarterly adjustments of wages, resulted, at least
temporarily, in real wage gains of 8-10% for these industries, and Federal
Government salaries were also increased to compensate for large previous
declines. Profits were high in many private sector activities. Monetary
policy from August 1985 was accommodating; in fact, some of the expansion in
the monetary aggregates that occurred was aimed at reducing interest rates.
With a sharp reduction in foreign financing, the growing public debt was



-4-
financed domestically at high, though later declining, real interest rates.
The real rate on Government securities declined from 21% in August to 15% by
the end of the year. For the year, as a whole, the monetary aggregates
increased faster than the 235X inflation: 251% tor the monetary base, 312Z
for MI, and 262% for M3.
12.       By the end of 1985, inflation was causing new concern.  The rate of
inflation increased late in the year because of the need to raise public
sector and other regulated prices that had been held down in previous months
and through anticipation of the effects of a drought in the South which
damaged food crops and coffee. Inflation reached monthly rates of 11% in
November and 13% in December, followed by rates of 16% and over 14% in
January and February of 1986, respectively. In late 1985, the Government had
prepared a program to reduce inflation gradually which was centered around a
substantial reduction of the fiscal deficit. Taxes were increased and there
were cuts in Federal Government and state enterprise expenditure. Budget:ry
control was strengthened in January 1986 by the unification of the fiscal and
monetary budgets, transferring to the Treasury the responsibility for
programs previously financed by the Central Bank and Bank of Brazil; the
termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as a second monetary authority; and
the establishment of a National Treasury Secretariat to centralize budget
disbursements. A program for restructuring and selective privatization of
state enterprises was initiated. Alarmed by the spurt in inflation in
December and January, the Government tightened consumer credit and announced
a plan to increase food imports to offset the drought-related increase in
agricultural prices. At the same time, a more radical comprehensive program
to stop inflation was being prepared.
Economic Outlook
13.      On February 28, the Government initiated its new program for
stabilization and currency reform. Until then, the inflation outlook for
1986 was threatening. There were a number of inflationary factors needing to
be dealt with, including the disappearance of excess capacity in a number of
industries, the pressures to raise wages to pre-recession levels and to
protect workers from higher future inflation, the poor agricultural harvest,
and the need to raise some public sector tariffs and prices. Moreover, there
was a growing awareness that maintaining inflation at 200-250% a year, the
rate of the prior three years, was likely to be very difficult over the
medium term. The economy was reacting very quickly to new, negative shocks,
and the indexation system made it hard to bring inflation down, once the
shocks were reflected in the price index. In addition, the small size of the
monetary base relative to GDP (about 2%) and the high liquidity of Government
bonds complicated the use of monetary policy tc reduce aggregate demand.
14.       The new program seeks both to eliminate the impact of past, indexed
inflation and to change future inflation expectations. It features a
currency reform, with the new cruzado initially worth 1,000 cruzeiros;
a temporary price freeze on goods and services; an exchange rate set at
CzS13.8 to the US dollar for a period to be determined; wage adjustments to
their average real value over the previous 6 months, with annual adjustments
thereafter, at least partly indexed to inflation; the freezing for one year
of rent and mortgage payments; prohibition of indexation of financial
contracts for periods of less than a year, except for personal savings



- 5-
accounts; the conversion of nominal cruzeiro contracts to appropriate cruzado
values; the conversion of indexed Government bonds to cruzados at the parity
existing on February 28, without any adjustment, at least for one year, in
the nominal value of the new bonds; and a number of measures intended to
liberalize the financial system. These sweeping financial reforms were
accompanied by a continued effort to reduce the fiscal deficit and to use
monetary policy to stabilize and, if possible, reduce real interest rates. A
limited unemployment insurance program was introduced. Initial political and
public reactions have been highly positive.
15.       Preliminary assessments suggest that the reforms will pLovide
increased stability and encourage productive private sector investment,
although there are risks inherent in the reforms, including problems of
adjustment for the fittancial sector. The transition period could be marked
by a temporary reduction in growth, Nevertheless, GDP growth is expected to
be substantial, even with below-normal agricultural growth due to the recent
drought. The exchange rate remains competitive; previous mini-devaluations
against the US dollar, and the decline of the dollar relative to the
currencies of Brazil's other trading partners, have resulted in a 15-20Z fall
in the real effective exchange rate since early 1985. The February 28 wage
adjustments do not raise real wage costs. The large trade surplus remains a
positive factor for growth. While progress needs to be carefully monitored,
the economic outlook has been substantially improved by the measures to
restore internal stability to complement the strong Brazilian performance In
external trade and the balance of payments.
16.       The medium-term economic outlook for Brazil is thus encouraging,
assuming the maintenance of a sound exchange rate policy, reasonable success
in .the implementation of the new stabilization package, and the present
determination to reduce the public sector deficit. A focus on further export
promotion, greater productive efficiency, improved resource allocation and
increased savings and investment will be required if annual GDP growth rates
are to remain high enough (6-7% on average) to restore living standards and
generate the employment growth (at least 4Z per annum) to fit new entrants
into the labor force and reabsorb those still affected by the recent
recession.
17.       The country's prospects depend on external factors outside the
control of Brazilian policy makers as well as on economic and social policies
pursued within the country. Recent developments, iecluding the decline in
international interest rates and t;:e fall in oil prices, have been positive
for Brazil. A 1X drop in average interest rates means a balance-of-payments
gain of about US$800 million. The agreement reached in March with commercial
bank creditors reschedules 1985 maturities, rolls over 1986 maturities until
early 1987, and reduces interest rates on this debt from 2-1/8 to 1-1/8% over
LIBOR. This agreement, which affects about 20% of Brazil's variable rate
debt, will reduce annual interest payments by some US$140 million. A
reduction of a dollar per barrel in oil prices means a net gain of over
US$100 million a year.
18.       Brazil remains dependent on its success in exporting and therefore
on the international economy, market access, and its own trade policies.
However, major structural changes in its trade accounts in recent years,
including substantial export growth and recent efficient import substitution



-6-
in both industrial products and petroleum, should make it feasible to
continue to generate large trade surpluses for several years, even with
nominal growth in non-oil imports of up to 20Z a year.
External Financing and Creditworthiness
19.       On the basis of relatively cautious assumptions about the
international environment, but assuming continued domestic economic growth,
Brazil could achieve substantial improvements in its balance of payments
situation, external debt outlook, and creditworthiness indicators. Bank
analysis, based on expected macro-economic and sector performance under
current and planned economic policies, results in projections of GDP growth
averaging about 7X in 1985-90, with additional foreign financing. Brazil's
net medium- and long-term financing needs are projected to average US$3.6
billion annually in the period 1986-90. Of this amount, approximately US$2
billion would be needed annually from commercial sources. With these
moderate levels of net new foreign borrowing, Brazil's total medium- and
long-term debt would grow at an annual rate of 3.8% from 1985 to 1990, below
the projected rate of international inflation, and would thus decline in real
terms.
20.       Brazil's creditworthiness indicators are expected to improve
substantially by the end of the decade. The medium- and long-term debt
service ratio is projected to fall from 69Z of goods and non-factor service
exports in 1985, before the March rescheduling, to 52% in 1990. Similarly,
the ratio of total external debt to exports, which amounted to 3.6 in 1985,
is projected to decline to 2.6 by 1990. Nonetheless, debt service payments
will remain high. Interest payments alone would be equivalent to 24% of
exports In 1990, compared to 39% of exports in 1985. Therefore, Brazil will
either need to reschedule its commercial bank debt further or seek much
larger amounts of new gross borrowing. With continuation of its adjustment
program and of its sound balance-of-payments performance, and an adequate but
moderate flow of net new foreign financing, Brazil's long-term prospects are
good.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By March 31, 1986, the Bank had made 145 loans to Brazil, amounting
to US$11,147.1 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were not yet fully
disbursed. The undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1986 was US$3,687.9
million.  Debt outstanding and disbursed was US$5,042.0 million, equivalent
to 10% of the Bank's portfolio.  Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IFC investments.
22.       Over the FY77-84 period, annual Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to about US$1,573 million per year. Nine loans totalling
US$1,523.0 million were approved in FY85. Thus far in FY86 six loans have
been approved: a small towns improvement project in the amount of US$24.5
million; a Northeast urban reconstruction project for US$100.0 million; an
irrigation engineering project for US$48.C million; a metropolitan urban
development project for US$55.0 million; a second agricultural extension



- 7 -
project for US$155.0 million; and a Northeast health project for US$59.5
million. In addition to a Northeast rural development project, an irrigation
project, a public sector management project and a power sector project, which
are all scheduled for early consideration by the Executive Directors, work is
eIvanced on four additional rural development projects in the Northeast
region.
23.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated at US$88 billion at the end of 1985.
The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 4.8% while its share in total
debt service is estimated at 4.1%.
24.       As of March 31, 1986, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$1,041.14 million, of which ITS$710.73 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$330.41 million, US$255.47 million represent
loans and US$74.94 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of
March 31, 1986 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       Sustained economic growth with social progress requires substantial
domestic adjustments. Stability and growth will depend on tighter public
sector expenditure and deficit control, increased savings and investment, and
a sound balance of payments. To reduce the fiscal deficit, and to promote
greater overall efficiency in the use of available domestic and external
resources, the Government will have to reduce its participation in dir?ct
productive activities, while concentrating a growing share of its total
expenditures in the social sectors and in other traditional Government
services. The private sector, therefore, will have an increasingly important
role in the future growth of productivity and production. In this policy
framework, the Bank lending strategy is designed to support the ongoing
restructuring process, promote the mobilization and effective use of
resources, and contribute to the attainment of social and regional
development objectives to which high priority is also attached by the
Government.
26.       The Bank lending strategy is supported by an intensive economic
policy dialogue, through which the conclusions of the Bank's economic and
sector work are being taken into account by the Brazilian authorities. The
composition of the lending program has been decided jointly by the Government
and the Bank, also in support of the strategy summarized above. Host of the
proposed loans aim at achieving one or more of three key objectives: (a)
structural reforms in agriculture, industry and the management of the public
se_..tor; (b) the rehabilitation and development of essential infrastructure;
and (c) the increase in productivity, and the improvement in living
conditions, of the rural and urban poor.
27.       Three proposed FY86 operations (including the loan proposed in this
report) support, as their main objective, important aspects of the structural
reform process:
(a) The proposed Public Sector Management loan would, inter alia,
assist the Government in its efforts to: (i) improve the
programming and monitoring of the Federal Budget and of the



-8-
Public Investment Program; (ii) promote the financial
rehabilitation, and in some cases privatization, of state
enterprises, through the adoption of action plans by
individual enterprises, and through better monitoring of their
activities by the Planning Ministry; and (iii) strengthen the
control of public expenditures through the newly created
National Treasury Secretariat. An important aspect of this
loan is the agreement between the Bank and the Government to
have an annual exchange of views on the execution of the
public investment program during the prior year and on the
program for the subsequent three years. The first Bank review
of the Government's investment program is now being
completed. This loan would effectively institutionall e the
review process. The Bank assessment of public investment
performance and programs which would emerge from the annual
exchange of views, and of the analysis of the related relevant
information, could eventually be made available by the
Government to other parties (for instance, commercial banks).
(b) The proposed Power Sector Rehabilitation loan would deepen,
for the power sector, the process of rehabilitating the state
enterprises referred to above. This loan is based upon a
four-year sector investment program, carefully prepared during
the last two years by the Government and ELETROBRAS, with the
technical support of Bank staff. The program includes only
high-priority projects, and its associated financial plan
envisages the full financial rehabilitation of the sector over
the four-year period. While tariff increases have been
delayed in 1986 owing to the general price freeze which
accompanied the February 28 monetary reform, the Government
will provide substantial additional amounts to the sector
during 1986, in the form of equity investment. Moreover, the
sector rehabilitation program supported by this loan inc'udes
rehabilitation plans, acceptable to the Bank, for the
individual utilities, and envisages substantial annual
increases in the sector revenues, starting in 1987.
(c) The proposed Credit and Marketing Reform loan would support
two basic policy reforms: (i) the adoption of a new rural
credit policy, based upon interest rates which will fluctuate
according to market conditions and which will imply a
substantial reduction of credit subsidies; and (ii) the
liberalization of trade of agricultural products, including
the removal of controls on exports, imports, and prices,
except in the case of extreme price fluctuations in the
international markets. These policies would eliminate the
frequent and erratic Government interventions in the
agricultural markets, which constituted an important
disincentive to investment and production, only partially-and
very imperfectly-compensated by substantial and costly credit
subsidies.
28.       Taken together, the policies and decisions referred to in the
previous paragraph constitute a major step forward in the process of



-9-
structural reform of the Brazilian economy. These reforms are part of
Brazil's short- and medium-term economic program, which is now being updated
by the Government to take full account of the expected results of the
financial and stabilization policy decisions adopted in January and February
of this year. Given their scope and nature, the reforms described above
deserve the full support of the Bank, even before the updating of the
Government programs is completed. The availability of a complete
macroeconomic policy framework acceptable to the Bank, however, will be a
prerequisite for the processing of subsequent policy-based operations. These
are likely to include, in the near future, loans designed to support the
on-going reform of Brazil's financial system, which began with the separation
of the Cent-al Bank and the Bank of Brazil in January and the monetary reform
in February of this year; the promotion of export-oriented industrial growth;
the rehabilitation and selective privatization of industrial state
enterprises, as a follow-up of the proposed FY86 Public Sector Management
project; and possible follow-up loans to support the power sector
rehabilltation program.
29.       The second lending objective-rehabilitation and development of
essential infrastructure-will be pursued mainly through loans for power,
transportation, and water supply and sewerage, some of which are also aimed
at other key objectives. Of particular importance in this respect are the
planned operations for the power sector (including the proposed Power Sector
loan referred to above), which will support high priority projects, designed
and implemented in the framework of a sound sector investment program and of
appropriate financial policies. Lending for transportation will be directed
toward the rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing transportation
network with expansion in areas where economic activity is outgrowing present
capacity. Future loans for water supply and sewerage will be mostly directed
to the Northeast Region.
30.       A third lending objective is to help intensify the efforts of the
Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income segments of the
population, to broaden the opportunities open to those groups, and to improve
their living conditions. Previous loans for primary education, vocational
training, agricultural research and extension, land reform, integrated rural
development, water supply, sewerage, and health are already assisting the
improvement of the living conditions, and the increase in productivity, of
the Brazilian population, particularly the rural and urban poor of the
Northeast Region. Future lending in the health sector will seek to extend
coverage of basic health services in the Northeast, and to combat endemic
diseases in the Northeast and the Northwest. Continued lending for
integrated rural development and irrigation projects in the Northeast of
Brazil will support the Government's objectives to further alleviate poverty,
by addressing the region's vulnerability to drought, inadequate structure of
regional institutions, and concentration of land ownership. Further lending
for urban development will address ways to improve urban services and
infrastructure, while simlltaneously strengthening the financial basis of
municipalities, particularly in the Northeast Region, with a view toward
self-financing of investments and cost recovery. New projects for water
supply and sewerage will also foster these goals while extending services to
rural areas and to the low-income urban population. Education lending will
continue to strengthen financial and administrative capacity while
also increasing the contribution of education to the development process,
especially in the Northeast.



- 10 -
31.       Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the
international financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's
development prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and
industry, Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources
from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions. Since
1976, 11 cofinancing operations for about US$570 million were arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. There have been no cofinancing
opportunities with commercial banks in the past four years, as the volume and
terms of commercial bank financing available to Brazil were determined within
the framework of debt rescheduling negotiations. In view, bowever, of
Brazil's current programs of structural adjustment, its recent progress in
restoring a sound balance-of-payments position, and its current efforts to
control inflation, the prospects for renewed voluntary lending from
commercial banks are improving, although the likelihood of a future
multi-year rescheduling might pose some difficulties in this respect. In
this framework, the Bank's cofinancing instruments may well play a positive
role in assisting Brazil to regain its normal access to international capital
markets.
PAET III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
32.       Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been the main source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP (Annex
IV, Table 1). In 1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 442 of the
economically active population and 67% of total exports. In 1984, these
figures were 13%, 30% and 38%, respectively. Throughout the 1970s, there was
a rapid expansion (5Z per annum) in Brazil's agriculture (Annex IV, Tables 2
and 3). Output and investment decl!'ned during the recession in the early
1980s, and started to recover in 1984 and 1985.
33.       The performance of the sector in the 1970s masked disparate rates
of growth between regions, farm types and individual crops. By far the most
dynamic performance was that of products relying on heavy capital investment
or high levels of farm inputs (soybeans, citrus, tobacco, cocoa, sugarcane
for alcohol). This expansion tended to be concentrated on large commercial
farms in central and southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some
cases declines, were recorded for such staple crops as rice, maize, beans,
manioc and potatoes.
34.       These trends in agricultural output were reflected in agricultural
trade (Annex IV, Table 4). In the 1970s, the rapid growth in agricultural
exports depended heavily on soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and
sugar. Of total agricultural exports of US$2.09 billion in 1970, only 15%
were accounted for by these five crops. By 1980, they accounted for over 50%
of Brazil's US$9.43 billion of agricultural exports. After 1980, the value
of agricultural exports hardly grew at all, except in 1984, when coffee and
orange juice were aided by highly favorable price movements.



- 11 -
Agricultural Policy
35.       Overall Framework.  The achievements of Brazilian agriculture over
the last 15-20 years have been impressive. Nevertheless, the sector is
operating below its potential, given its excellent resource base and rapidly
evolving technology. This can be ascribed largely to shortcomings in
Government policy. While agriculture is overwhelmingly a private activity,
it has been subject to constant interference by successive Governments, whose
actions have usually been determiuct  by short-term political considerations.
As a result, there has been no consistent strategy for sectoral development
and the sector has been subject to an ever-changing and often contradictory
system of incentives. With the exception of credit policy (paras. 41 to 49),
which attempted to encourage sectoral growth through heavy subsidies,
Government policies have generally acted as a disincentive to investment in
the agricultural sector. The tax on the gross value of traded commodities
(ICM) applies to exports of agricultural products. Since industrial
exporters are exempted from it, this tax effectively discriminates against
agricultural producers by reducing the incentives for production and exports
of traded agricultural goods. For most of the period between 1974 and 1983,
a policy of protecting domestic industry led to an overvalued exchange rate,
with adverse effects on producer incentives. Meanwhile, agricultural trade
(paras. 50 to 54) has been affected by unpredictable Government interventions
which have taxed producers in favor of consumers, distorted investment
decisions and raised marketing risks.
36.       The key to realizing the full potential of the agricultural sector
is a policy framework which would make agriculture profitable without
subsidies. Market forces would do far more to stimulate efficient and rapid
growth than the combination of credit subsidies, interventionist trade
policies and production-based taxation. The achievement of such a policy
framework is central to the Bank's agricultural sector lending to Brazil and
is in conformity with the policy objectives of the new Government, as
expressed in the recently published National Development Plan and in the
Statement of Agricultural Policy set out in Annex V of this report.
37.       Sectoral Development Strategy.  The recent dialogue between the
Bank and the Government has led to a broad agreement on the priorities and
development strategy for the sector and on significant policy changes needed
to implement that strategy. This agreement is contained in the Statement of
Agricultural Policy (Annex V). The statement points to the key role of
agriculture in achieving sustained economic growth and reducing social and
regional income disparities. In addition, it affirms the Government's
intention to reduce the fiscal burden of intervention in the agricultural
sector.
38.       The strategy for restoring growth in the agricultural sector
involves a major revision of incentive policies, to allow a more
market-oriented allocation of resources in credit and commodity markets. In
the credit markets, there will be an immediate reduction in rural credit
subsidies brought about by an increase in real interest rates charged on
official rural credit. The new higher real rates will be linked in the
future to changes in market interest rates, which will reflect inflationary
expectations. The Goverrnent is also exploring alternatives to the
compulsory allocation of commercial bank resources to rural credit (Annex V,



- 12 -
para. 6). In commodity markets, following the current emergency
stabilization program, the Government will introduce measures to stimulate
private trade and the freer movement of market prices. These measures are
aimed at removing the historic price discrimination against agricultural
producers and thus to compensate the sector for the cost of higher real
interest rates. The main measures proposed will diminish government
intervention in agricultural trade, simplify trade regulations, improve
access to futures markets, provide greater flexibility in the financing of
agricultural stocks, and improve market information systems. Further
discussion of the issues involved in liberalizing commodity markets is
included in paras. 57-63. Moreover, the Government also intends to eliminate
the ICM tax on agricultural exports (Annex V, para. 2). This, however, is
likely to take some time, since the ICM is a major source of revenues for the
State Governments. A reduction of such revenues would have to be negotiated
with them by the Federal Government, and, most likely, would have to be
compensated by increases in other revenue items.
39.       The strategy for reducing social and regional inequalities depends
on the achievement of renewed sectoral growth. A growing agricultural sector
wiU be a prerequisite for achieving rising levels of rural employment and
income, for improving rural services and for reducing disparities between the
agricultural and industrial regions of the country. In addition, the
Government's strategy involves direct action in the areas of land reform and
of public investment in the poorer regions, notably the North/Northeast. The
construction of irrigation infrastructure in the Northeast is the only
significant area of direct public investment in agriculture, and a major
increase in this activicy has been proposed for the period 1986-1990.
Discussion is currently under way to define a core program for public
irrigation in the Northeast which could be supported by the Bank. In this
context, the Bank, through the recently approved Northeast Irrigation
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2680-BR), is engaged in
the preparation of a number of irrigation projects and will be in a position
to monitor closely the effective implementation of the core program.
40.       The strategy for reducing the fiscal burden of Government
intervention in agriculture will be implemented over several years. The
first step has already been taken through the new credit policy for
agriculture, as noted above. Further steps will involve: (a) development of
a program to reduce the budgetary allocation for subsidies on wheat
production and consumption; (b) a reduction in Government intervention in
agricultural marketing through a reform of the minimum price policy and the
development of commercial financing for agricultural marketing to complement
federal marketing credit (EGF); and (c) a gradual reduction in the subsidies
given to the alcohol program (Annex V, para. 4).
41.       Rural Credit Policy.  There are about 100 commercial banks in
Brazil, of which some 80 are private and 20 are owned by the Federal and
State Governments; they have a network of some 15,000 branches, of which the
private banks account for about 8,500. The private banks concentrate on
short-term credit although, on a limited scale, they act as intermediaries
for term lending by the Central Bank and the National Economic and Social
Development Bank. Long-term lending has tended to be concentrated in Federal
and State banks which have on-lent official investment credit at interest
rates often substantially below the cost of funds to the Government.



- 13 -
42.       Official rural credit has been an important feature of the
Brazilian financial system, although its importance has declined in recent
years. Official rural credit includes: (a) short-term crop credit, typically
accounting for some 60% of the total; (b) short-term marketing credit, for
about 25%; and (c) medium- and long-term investment credit, for about 15%.
After 1973, the volume of official rural credit rose rapidly in real terms
and had more than doubled by 1979. It was channelled principally through the
Bank of Brazil, whose operations, sustained by its cost-free current account
with the Central Bank (conta de movimento), expanded both absolutely and in
relation to the rest of the banking system. Other sources of rural credit
have been special programs (usually for particular crops or regions) funded
through the Central Bank, and compulsory applications of commercial bank
resources.
43.       The growth in the volume of official credit, together with the
widening gap between the interest rates charged and the cost of funds to the
Government, measured by the yield on Treasury Bonds, led to credit subsidies
calculated to have been equal to more than 5% of GDP in the late 1970s. Two
thirds of this (US$6-US$7 billion equivalent) was in the rural sector. These
credit subsidies became a major cause of inflation, diversions of funds, high
administrative costs, and distortions in the use of factors of production.
By the end of the 1970s, the position had become unsustainable. From 1980
onwards, the Government sought to reduce the credit subsidies in two ways:
first, by reducing the volume of official credit, and second by increasing
the effective interest rates.
44.       The value of all rural credit fell from US$26.3 billion equivalent
in 1979 to US$6 billion equivalent in 1984; the figures for investment credit
were US$4.1 billion equivalent in 1979 and US$0.7 billion equivalent in 1984
(Annex IV, Table 5). Nominal interest rates on official credit were raised
in 1980 and in 1981. Then, at the beginning of 1983, with inflation
accelerating rapidly, interest rates were linked to expected changes in the
consumer price index. Further changes, in January 1984, were based on
agreements reached with the Bank in connection with the Agricultural Credit
and Export Development Loan (Loan 2348-BR), which required interest rates on
official credit (outside the North/Northeast) to be no less than full
monetary correction plus 3%. Recent changes in nominal and real interest
rates, together with comparative rates for indexed Treasury bonds and
commercial bank certificates of deposit, are shown in Annex IV, Table 6.
45.       The developments noted above, and in particular the reduction in
the volume of official credit, have sharply reduced the amount of the credit
subsidies since 1980. Assuming that 20% of total rural credit was utilized
in the North/Northeast, rural credit subsidies are estimated to have declined
to about US$600 million in 1985. Most of these subsidies were financed
either by the fiscal budget or by transfers from the Central Bank to the Bank
of Brazil, through the conta de movimento.
46.       In recent months, two developments have taken place which will
profoundly affect the official rural credit system. First, in early
February 1986, it was decided that the Bank of Brazil would cease to be a
monetary authority.   Its access to cost-free funds fcom the Central Bank was



- 14 -
cut off, and it is as yet uncertain how the Bank of Brazil will be financed
and how it will make the difficult adjustment to being an efficient and
competitive independent financial institution. The key question is how to
reduce and finance its very high operating costs, some of which arise from
maintaining unprofitable banking services in remote rural areas, and some of
which arise from overstaffing following years of uncontrolled expansion.
Second, at the end of February, the stabilization program eliminated monetary
correction on new financial contracts of less than one year and postponed all
monetary correction on longer-term contracts until March 1, 1987.
47.       In the framework of the January and February economic reforms a new
rural credit policy was announced in May 1986, establishing a market-oriented
structure of interest rates (Annex V, Attachment 1). For production and
investment credit, rates for farmers in the Center South were fixed at a base
rate of 10% until February 28, 1987. After that date, this rate would be
adjusted every six months in accordance with variations in the rate on
180-day commercial bank certificates of deposit. It is not possible to
predict precisely the real level at which this rate will remain over the long
term, since its variations will be determined by market conditions. It is
expected, however, that it will fluctuate around a positive real level of
about 10%, although in periods of accelerating inflation it may become
temporarily lower. It is also expected that about 80% of the total amount of
rural credit will be granted at this base rate. The remaining 20X will be
granted at preferential rates in the North and Northeast regions. The small
farmers included in the Northeast Rural Development Program, and other
Northeast mini-farmers, will receive official credit at the equivalent of 30%
of the base rate-or 3%, until February 28, 1987. Preferential rates for
other North/Northeast farmers will be as follows until February 28, 1987: 6%
and 8%, respectively, for medium and large farmers, and 7% for investments in
irrigation; subsequently, these rates will be adjusted every six months,
keeping the same differential, in terms of percentage points, from the base
rate. Marketing credit for unprocessed agricultural commodities will be
granted at the base rate (10% until February 28, 1987) and for processed
agricultural goods at five percentage points over it (15% until February 28,
1987); both rates will fluctuate in the future following the variations of
the base rate.  The removal of subsidies on marketing credit will have its
main impact on soybeans and soybean products, which in the past have been the
main beneficiaries of subsidized federal marketing credit, as noted in para.
52 below. Details of the proposed on-lending rates, volume of credit and
breakdown of funding sources are given in Annex V, Attachment 1.
48.       The new policy is a major step towards rationalizing rural credit
markets. It involves a substantial further reduction in rural credit
subsidies, from about US$600 million in 1985 to about US$100 million in
1986. While it involves the continuation of the compulsory application of
resources into rural credit, it also raises interest rates to levels
calculated to substantially cover lending costs and risks. Continuing
subsidies on credit will be small and carefully budgeted. The new interest
rates will be substantially higher than those previously in force and, most
importantly, they will vary in accordance with market determined rates,
reflecting inflationary expectations. This reform, however important, should
be considered only as an additional step-albeit a far-reaching one-in a



- 15 -
long-term process. It follows the 1983 reform, undertaken with the support
of Loan 2348-BR; following several years of heavy subsidies, that reform
instituted a real positive rate (3%) for most rural credit operations. As
indicated in para. 38, among additional possible reforms to be undertaken in
the future, the Government is exploring alternatives to the mandatory
allocations to rural credit by commercial banks (Annex V, para. 6).
49.       The new rural credit policy described above should also be viewed
as a part of the wider reform of Brazil's financial system initiated last
January with the termination of the Bank of Brazil's role as monetary
authority. High-level Government officials have stated publicly their
intention of continuing this reform process by increasing the efficiency and
competitiveness of the Bank of Brazil; improving the legal framework for the
sound development of private commercial banks; reducing the segmentation of
credit markets; and integrating such markets over the medium-term in the
international economy. In this framework, the Brazilian agricultural sector
should be expected to benefit substantially from an increasingly effective
and market-oriented system of allocation of credit resources.
50.       Agricultural Trade and Pricing Policy.  The agricultural pricing
policy pursued by Brazilian governments for the last 15 years has had three
principal elements: (a) restrictions on agricultural trade; (b) minimum
price policy; and (c) food price controls. The objective of these policies
has been to provide greater stability to domestic markets, but their effect
has often been the reverse. Furthermore, they have been extremely costly to
the Government and to the economy as a whole.
51.       Restrictions on agricultural trade have taken the form of ad hoc
quotas or outright prohibition of exports or imports, combined with a complex
system of prior registration for the purpose of foreign exchange control. At
times, varying levels of export taxes have been imposed as a further means of
controlling the flow of trade.  These interventions have generally taxed
agricultural producers in favor of urban consumers. Uncertainty over
Government regulations has made it virtually impossible for producers,
traders or processors to manage the risks inherent in holding stocks and has
thus added greatly to the instability of domestic markets. The instability
created by Government actions in commodity markets can be measured in a
number of ways. For example, analysis of domestic/border parity prices for
major crops (Annex IV, Table 8) shows a high degree of variability in net
taxation (impact of all Government policies) both between individual crops
and from year to year. Measurement of interseasonal price relationships on
the domestic markets (Annex IV, Table 9) shows also wide fluctuations in the
ratios of mid-season to harvest prices, indicating that stock-holding in
Brazil has been, at best, a highly speculative activity.
52.       over the last ten years, the Government has aimed at reducing the
risks and the costs of holding stocks through federal marketing credit (EGF),
administered through the minimum price program. EGF credits have been
subsidized and also underpinned by an indexed minimum price guarantee for the
duration of the contract. Through these credits, the Government has
effectively relieved EGF holders of a major part of their marketing risks.
However, the program has had three major drawbacks: (a) it has been
extremely costly to the Government; (b) it has been subject to the vagaries
of Government fiscal and monetary policy; and (c) it has been highly



-16-
selective in the context of the agricultural sector as a whole. In 1982, EGF
financed 52% of the soy crop, 19% of the rice crop, 14% of the bean crop, 13%
of the maize crop; and less than 10% of all other crops.
53.       The minimum price policy has not been effective as a stabilizing
mechanism, for lack of a coherent policy either on establishing the minimum
prices themselves or on storing or disposing of surpluses once they have been
acquired. The available data (Annex IV, Table 10) show extremely volatile
real minimum prices over the years. Furthermore, whenever the Government has
purchased large quantities of commodities under the minimum price program, it
has subsequently sold its surpluses on the domestic market at a loss, thus
undermining the very markets which it has sought to support.
54.       Subsidized government sales of commodities such as maize, rice and
beans--previously purchased either by the Production Finance Company (CFP) or
by the Secretariat of Supply and Prices (SEAP)-have frequently been used to
influence domestic prices.  The most important food subsidy, however, is the
wheat program. The Government is the sole buyer of both domestic and
imported wheat, which it sells to the milling industry. Subsidized wheat
sales (65% imported) exert downward pressure on the prices of domestically
produced substitutes such as maize, manioc, rice and beans. Meanwhile,
Brazilian wheat producers are supported through guaranteed prices, frequently
well above import parity. The fiscal cost of the wheat program in recent
years (a combination of subsidies to both consumers and producers) has ranged
from US$500 million to over US$1 billion per year.
55.       In 1984, a review of agricultural pricing policies was carried out
by Brazilian economists, supported by the Bank under Loan 2348-BR.
Following this review, extensive discussions were held between the Bank and
the Government. Agreement was reached on the need to work towards a major
reform of pricing policy for agriculture, especially the liberalization of
agricultural trade. Such a reform would be extremely complex and would
require major changes in the financial and regulatory conditions under which
the trading system currently operates. The principal issues involved in
trade liberalization concern: (a) price stabilization; (b) management of
price risks; (c) financing of agricultural stocks; (d) simplification of
trade regulations; and (e) improvement in market information systems.
56.       In December 1985, the Government set up commercial policy working
groups to make recommendations for reform in these five key policy areas.
These groups opened a dialogue with the private sector (traders, bankers,
commodity exchanges) and became de facto the Government's principal forum for
developing a new market-oriented commercial policy for agriculture. The
progress in this work, however, was slowed down at the end of February 1986,
when the Government announced drastic measures to combat inflation, including
a temporary freeze on all prices. For agricultural commodities, retail
prices were frozen at a level equal to the average real price which prevailed
over the period December 1984 to February 1986. The price freeze will
postpone by several months the actual implementation of the new commercial
policy. If. however, the stabilization program is successful in bringing
inflation under control, the longer-term prospects for trade and pricing
policy reform would be enhanced substantially. By the end of 1986, there
should be an excellent opportunity to pursue this objective, based on greater
financial stability and on the technical proposals of the five commercial



- 17 -
policy working groups. The main lines of the work of these groups on the
five policy areas are described in paras. 57-63 below.
57.       Price Stabilization.  Domestic price stability for agricultural
commodities cannot be achieved through the ad hoc control of trade flows, as
practiced in Brazil over recent years. Rather, it depends on the development
of a free marketing system, in which the Government intervenes only in
accordance with pre-announced rules and confines itself to market actions
(e.g. accumulation or disposal of stocks) rather than administrative actions
(such as the use of quantitative controls). The Government has already
accepted the basic need for establishing a system of pre-announced market
safeguards to protect consumers from excessive upward price movements. It
has also decided to embark on a reform of the minimum price system. The key
issues in price stabilization policy now being considered by the working
groups are: (a) what is meant by "excessive' upward price movements; (b) how
should the Government intervene if excessive movements occur; and (c) what is
the optimal sharing of price risks between farmers and the Government under
the minimum price program.
58.       Management of Price Risks.  Price risks are inherent in all
marketing operations, and the ability of traders to minimise them is vital to
price stability in a free market. The most important requirement in this
area is free access to futures markets. The principal factors which have
limited access to futures markets in the past are: (a) foreign exchange
restrictions by the Central Bank on overseas futures trading; and
(b) inequitable tax treatment for domestic futures trading. The Central Bank
imposes restrictions on overseas futures trading because there is evidence of
it being used for capital flight and for speculation. At the same time, the
development of a domestic futures market for agricultural commodities depends
on changes in tax regulations governing trading profits. Under existing
regulations, profits derived from domestic futures trading are taxed, while
profits from external futures trading are not. A continuation of this
advantage to external trading would virtually preclude the development of a
domestic futures market.
59.       Financing of Agricultural Stocks.  The willingness of traders and
cooperatives to hold stocks of agricultural commodities is a crucial element
in creating stable domestic markets. This willingness clearly depends on
domestic stock-holders having access to finance on terms comparable to those
available to exporters. Since traded agricultural commodities are relatively
homogeneous and are usually hedged using dollar-priced futures contracts,
they can act, in a free market, as an attractive collateral for dollar-based
financing, even when destined for domestic markets. With this in view, the
Government has agreed to introduce two new private financial instruments
which would partly replace the Government-sponsored EGF credits (on which
commodity markets in Brazil have become over-dependent). These are (a) a
dollar-dominated credit line (PROSTOCK, paras. 77 to 78) available through
commercial banks to holders of hedged commodites; and (b) the development of
a system of storage warrants and associated bankers' acceptances.
60.       Storage warrants are certificates guaranteeing the existence of
graded agricultural commodities in bonded warehouses. They are always backed
by insurance and usually hedged on futures markets. The key to their



- 18 -
development is that they should be credible to buyers and lenders in terms of
quality and quantity. Outside inspection is therefore indispensable, as is
the involvement of some clearinghouse mechanism set up by an independcat
authority, along with performance bonds covering the warehousing.
61.       Bankers' acceptances are essentially mortgages on those bonded
agricultural commodities. As a means of financing crop storage they have the
advantage that they are not bank loans but traded securities. As such, they
do not carry the risks, nor the costs, of conventional loans. They do not
affect bankers' reserve requirements, nor are they seen by international
banks as adding to their exposure to sovereign risk. They are therefore
highly attractive to bankers and a cheap source of finance to traders and
producers. The key to developing a bankers' acceptance market is to establish
a set of regulations in the Central Bank compatible with those governing the
international acceptance markets (based in New York and regulated by the New
York Federal Reserve Bank). If this were accomplished, a major part of the
Brazilian stock of tradable commodities could be financed at interest rates
below those of dollar-denominated certificates of deposit.
62.       Simplification of Trade 'egulations.  The key institution in the
regulation of foreign trade is the Foreign Trade Bureau of the Bank of Brazil
(CACEX), whose Director reports to the Minister of Finance. Currently, all
international trading must be registered through CACEX, which exercises an
independent licensing function. In order to provide greater freedom in
commodity markets the working group formed for this policy area will propose
ways of simplifying the mass of existing (and often conflicting) trade
regulations currently enforced by CACEX, which unnecessarily impede the flow
of agricultural trade. In the last year, CACEX itself has begun a review of
its own internal procedures. Particular attention is being paid to the
system of prior registration of export contracts. To streamline this system,
a network of on-line communications and data retrieval is required in CACEX
to operate for agricultural commodities. This would link the local agencies
to the central administration as well as to the Central Bank's own
information system (on foreign exchange and hedging). This would greatly
simplify administration, speeding up the registration process and increasing
the ability of decision-makers to monitor the flow of exports and imports.
63.       Market Information Systems.  Technical and organizational changes
are needed in a number of agencies, in order to improve the processing and
dissemination of vital market information. These include: (a) improved crop
forecasting, involving technical assistance, capital investment and changes
in the operations of the Brazilian Institute for Geography and Statistics
(IBGE) and CFP; and (b) improved stock information and data processing
systems in the public and private sectors, in association with the
development of storage warrants.
64.       Summary of Priority Actions for Pricing Policy Reform.  The final
recommendations of the commercial policy working groups will not be available
until August 1986. On the basis of discussions already undertaken between
the Bank and the working groups, however, it is possible to anticipate some
of the actions which are likely to be proposed and which may be suitable for
rapid implementation. These include: (a) announcement of a limited system
of market safeguards, consistent with at least a partial relaxation of price



- 19 -
controls on agricultural commodities for the 1987 harvest; (b) announcement
of new minimum prices consistent with (a); (c) revision of the tax laws
affecting domestic futures trading; (d) relaxation of foreign exchange
regulations affecting overseas futures trading; (e) appointment of
consultants for the design of futures contracts and any necessary trading
facilities; (f) contracting of services for the establishment of an
integrated system in the Central Bank for monitoring foreign exchange
transactions on both cash and futures trading; (g) establishment of an
administrative framework for internationally acceptable storage warrants and
submission to Congress of legislation to establish them, should this be
necessary; (h) contracting of services for the design and equipment of a
clearing house for storage warrants and appointment of a firm or firms to
provide independent inspection of commodities in bonded warehouses,
satisfactory for internationally accepted storage warrants; (i) expansion in
the use of discounted commercial paper for financing agricultural
commodities, in accordance with regulations in the Rural Credit Manual; (j)
settlement of regulations in the Central Bank for establishing a market in
bankers' acceptances; (k) contracting of services for establishing an
integrated stock information system; (1) Government approval for a program of
improvements in crop forecasting, including contracting of technical studies;
(m) measures to simplify CACEX agricultural trade regulations and procedures;
and (n) contracting of services for linking CACEX headquarters and agencies,
and the Central Bank, to improve the monitoring of physical and financial
transactions on external markets.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
65.       The Bank has made 35 loans, totalling US$2,229.2 million, for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These include one sector loan
(Loan 2348-BR) for US$303.0 million and one supplemental financing loan
(US$30.5 million), both under the Special Action Program; three for
agroindustries (US$519.2 million); two for livestock (US$60.5 million); one
for grain storage (US$18.2 million); two for agricultural research
(US$100 million); two for agricultural extension (US$255 million); one for
land tenure improvement (US$100 million); and 22 for various settlement,
irrigation and rural development projects in the Northeast, in Minas Gerais,
and in the North and Northwest (US$842.8 million).
66.       The only previous experience with agriculture sector lending to
Brazil was Loan 2348-BR (US$303.0 million), approved in August 1983, which
supported the Government's program to reduce agricultural credit subsidies.
The proceeds from that loan were divided into three parts: (a) a pre-export
financing facility (PROEXPORT) of US$200 million in the Central Bank; (b) a
US$100 million facility (PROINVEST) in the Central Bank for financing rural
investments; and (c) a program of studies (US$2.2 million) directed at policy
analysis in the agricultural sector. There was also a capitalized front-end
fee of US$0.8 million. This loan has been fully disbursed, except for a
minor part (US$0.5 million) of the studies component.
67.       The experience gained during the execution of Loan 2348-BR
demonstrates the usefulness of a well-designed program of technical studies
directed specifically towards the preparation of basic policy reforms. The
studies financed under Loan 2348-BR are listed in Annex VI. These studies
have provided very useful inputs into the Bank's dialogue with the Government



- 20 -
on agricultural policy, including the framework for the preparation of the
Credit and Marketing Reform Project now being proposed.
68.       With regard to disbursements, two lessons were learned: (a) rural
credit operations in Brazil should not depend on open-ended (i.e.,
unbudgeted) commitments for the provision of counterpart funds (as was the
case with PROINVEST); and (b) newly established credit lines, such as
PROEXPORT, require clear and simple regulations, drawn up in close
consultation with the commercial banks.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin and Rationale for the Project
69.       Under the Agricultural Credit and Export Development Project (Loan
2348-BR), the agreement to end negative real interest rates on official rural
credit carried with it understandings that: (a) there would be a need to
continue to reduce subsidies on rural credit; and (b) a complementary reform
of trade and pricing policy would be necessary to maintain the balance of
incentives to agriculture. These understandings provided the basic rationale
for a second loan aimed at the continued reform of credit policy and
complementary changes in trade and pricing policy.
70.       In May 1984, a mission visited Brazil to appraise a loan in support
of trade liberalization for maize, cotton and soybeans and reforms in rural
credit markets. An invitation to negotiate the loan was issued in April
1985, but the new government, which had taken over in March 1985, requested a
postponement of discussions on the loan until it had formulated its own
position on agricultural policy. Discussions were reopened in August 1985,
in the framework of the intensive dialogue on economic policy that the Bank
established with the new Government. A re-appraisal mission visited Brazil
in October 1985. The mission worked with officials in the Ministries of
Planning, Agriculture and Finance and in the Central Bank in preparing a
Statement of Agricultural Policy (Annex V) and proposals aimed at the
libeialization of trade in basic agricultural commodities.
71.       With the introduction of a new economic policy program at the end
of February 1986, it became clear that the trade liberalization objectives
discussed at appraisal would not be achieved within the time frame originally
planned, though the prospect of bringing inflation under control augured well
for trade policy reform in the longer term. At the same time, the February
decisions provided a positive framework for further reforms in several
economic policy areas, including credit policy. The Government decided to
move rapidly towards a more market-oriented agricultural credit system,and
also towards a sharp reduction of rural credit subsidies. These policy
directions were clearly consistent with the overall development strategy
supported by the Bank. Accordingly, the emphasis of the project moved
towards the reform of rural credit policy, while retaining the T mentum
necessary for a subsequent pricing policy reform. Negotiations _ook place in
Washington, DC, from May 20-23, 1986. The Brazilian delegation was headed by
Mr. Guilherme Dias, Director of CFP at the Ministry of Agriculture. The
special conditions for the loan are summarized in Annex III.



- 21 -
Project Description and Objectives
72.       A loan of US$500 million Is proposed, to be disbursed in two
tranches of US$300 million and US$200 million. The primary objectives of the
loan would be to support the process of making the rural credit system more
market oriented and of reducing rural credit subsidies and to bring about a
reform in trade and pricing policy for key agricultural commodities. The
reforms to be supported by the loan, and the main issues involved in
implementing them, are discussed in paras. 47-49 (rural credit) and paras.
57-63 (trade and pricing policy). These two policy areas have been
identified as the key components of the strategy for renewed sectoral growth,
as set out in the Statement of Agricultural Policy in Annex V of this
report. The objectives of the loan would be met through: (a) policy actions
taken and commitments made by the Government before loan approval; and (b)
policy actions to be taken and commitments to be made before second tranche
release.
73.       Policy Actions and Commitments.  The most important policy
action taken so far by the Government is the revised policy for agricultural
credit (Annex V, paras. 6-11), which has been reflected in an amendment to
Loan 2348-BR. As already indicated, this is a major step forward in rural
credit policy. As such, it constitutes a sufficient basis for proceeding
with the first tranche of the loan. Assurances were received from the
Gov:rnment at negotiations that the new rural credit policy would be
maintained and that it would be subject to an annual joint review with the
Bank.
74.       Other measures taken in preparation for the propoeed loan are:
(a) agreement on the Agricultural Policy Statement (Annex V) setting out a
strategy based on a significant reduction in Government interventions in the
sector; (b) establishment of the five commercial policy working groups
(para. 56), to prepare action plans in the policy areas described in paras.
57-63; and (c) agreement in principle to a new credit line, PROSTOCK, to
finance the storage of agricultural commodities (paras. 77-78).
75.       A second tranche review would take place by December 1986.
Conditions for the release of the second tranche would be: (a) agreement on
a phased program of reform in each of the five policy areas covered by the
commercial policy working groups; (b) first steps satisfactory to the Bank to
initiate the proposed program in each area; (c) approval by the Government of
the regulations for the new PROSTOCK line of credit; and (d) agreement on a
plan for a progressive reduction in fiscal allocations for subsid'zing the
wheat program. In addition, at the time of the second tranche release, the
Government would have to be in compliance with the agreement on rural credit
referred in para. 73. Since the commercial policy working groups will not
complete their proposals until August, it is not possible yet to define with
precision the required contents of the action programs referred to in (a)
above. To be acceptable to the Bank such programs would have to deal
effectively with the issues described in paras. 57 to 63 above. Likewise, to
reach a positive assessment of the initial steps referred to in (b), it would
be necessary for such steps to constitute a substantial progress in the set
of policy actions mentioned in para. 64.
76.       Use of Loan Proceeds.  It is proposed to disburse the entire first
tranche (US$300 million) and part of the second tranche (US$100 million) to



- 22 -
finance general imports, under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank
(paras. 86-87).
77.       An amount of US$75 million would be made available, in the second
tranche, to fund a new credit line (PROSTOCK) to provide dollar-denominated
finance for agricultural commodities. Eligible borrowers would be warehouse
companies, producers, cooperative!s, traders and processors. The purpose of
PROSTOCK would be to introduce into Brazil dollar financing for commodities
held for domestic markets. Currently, financing in dollars is available only
for commodities on which firm export contracts have been drawn up. The ready
availability of export finance (for example, through the Bank-financed
PROEXPORT credit line), and its low cost compared to domestic credit, create
an imbalance in the market for commodity financing. This acts as an
incentive for stockholders to export rather than to hold stocks for domestic
markets and, under free trade, could destabilize the domestic commodity
markets.
78.       The initial funds for PROSTOCK would be very small by comparison
with the total stock of tradable commodities in Brazil and would be easily
absorbed in the short term by traders of commodities not covered by EGF (for
example, cocoa, coffee, sugar, tobacco and citrus). The potential for
expansion, and the longer-term possibilities for cofinancing, would
therefore, be very large. Dollar financing of commodities for domestic
markets has in the past been constrained by: (a) the very high foreign
exchange risks associated with it; (b) the lack of access to futures markets;
and (c) interventions by the Government in external trade, which have broken
the link between domestic and foreign prices. If the proposals for trade and
pricing policy reform are implemented as envisaged in the Statement of
Agricultural Policy, these constraints would be lifted. In that case,
PROSTOCK would act as a nucleus for a much larger influx of international
finance into Brazilian commodity markets. This could be complemented by the
development of a bankers' acceptance market, as described in para. 62.
79.       An amount of US$25 million would be allocated, in the second
tranche, to finance improvements (investment and technical assistance) in the
commercial infrastructure.  Potential improvements are currently under study
by the commercial policy working groups, and specific costed proposals for
investment and related technical assistance will be made before August 1986.
The most important items under consideration are:  (a) improvements in the
system of crop forecasting, (b) an integrated stock information system to
link government and private sector stock holders through the commodity
exchanges; (c) a real-time computer link between the main commodity exchanges
for recording cash transactions throughout Brazil; (d) an on-line connection
between CACEX headquarters, its agencies and the Central Bank to monitor
physical trading operations in agricultural commodities; (e) a similar
connection between the Central Bank and commercial banks to monitor foreign
exchange transactions; (f) an electronic clearing house in Sao Paulo to serve
the development of a commodities futures exchange; and (g) an inspection and
clearing house for storage warrants.
Project Cost and Financing
80.       The total project cost would be US$500 million, of which the Bank
would finance 100%. The Bank loan of US$500 million would be for a 15-year



- 23 -
term, including a 3-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate. The Government would be the borrower.
Implementation
81.       The project would be implemented by the Central Bank and by
SEPLAN. The Central Bank would monitor all foreign exchange transactions for
imports and would submit statements of expenditure to the Bank for
reimbursement. It would be responsible for presenting evidence of shipment,
as may be required by the Bank. PROSTOCK would also be managed by the
Central Bank, in accordance with regulations to be finalized before second
tranche release.
82.       The commercial infrastructure component (second tranche) would be
managed by SEPLAN, which is currently coordinating the commercial policy
working groups. Proposals for investment and technical assistance
expenditures under this component would be formally submitted for the
approval of a steering committee containing representatives of the Ministries
of Finance, Agriculture and SEPLAN. Proposals would be put to the committee
following approval by the Bank.
On-Lending Terms and Procedures
83.       PROSTOCK loans would be denominated and repayable in US aollars and
disbursed to final borrowers in cruzados. The foreign exchange risk would be
carried by the final borrower. PROSTOCK credits would be available for up to
80% of the value of commodities in store, the value being determined by a
futures contract for the sale of the commodities, also expressed in
US dollars. Eligible collateral would be any primary or secondary
agricultural commodity for which a domestic or foreign futures contract is
available.
84.       Credits would be extended by participating banks (PB's) to eligible
borrowers and rediscounted in the Central Bank at LIBOR plus a spread to be
approved by the Bank before second tranche release. Credits would be
available for 30 to 365 days, and would be on-lent to final borrowers at
freely negotiated interest rates. It would be the responsibility of the
Central Bank to allocate PROSTOCK resources to PBs in accordance with demand
from individual banks. The financial viability of subborrowers would be
ascertained by the PBs in accordance with normal commercial banking
procedures. The PBs sould also be responsible for ensuring proof of
existence and quality of the commodities in store, which would act as the
collateral for the loan. The required legal framework and independent
systems of warehouse inspection to enforce this provision already exist and
are used in the operation of EGF.
85.       The Bank would exchange views with the Government on the
utilization rate of PROSTOCK not later than December 1987, and recommend to
the Government, if appropriate, a reallocation of the funds to other uses
(PROEXPORT or investment credit). This would act as an insurance against the
possibility of changes in the Brazilian credit market adversely affecting the
demand for PROSTOCK. A similar provision was made for PROEXPORT in the loan
agreement for Loan 2348-BR, but it has not so far been invoked. During
negotiations, the Central Bank provided assurances that the regulations for
PROSTOCK would reflect the conditions described above. Formal approval of



- 24 -
the regulations by the Government and their publication by the Central Bank
would be a condition of second tranche reldase.  A review of onlending rates
and terms, in the light of developments in financial markets, would be
undertaken in December, 1987.
Procurement
86.       Imports to be financed by the loan would be made by public entities
and private sector importers, under procurement procedures acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts for the procurement of imports exteeding US$5 million would
be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance to
applicable Bank procurement guidelines for this type of operation. Contracts
under US$5 million would be procured through normal procedures used by the
importing entities. Commodities whose prices are quoted on international
spot markets would also be procured in accordance with practices normally
used by Brazil to purchase those commodities. During the preparation of this
project, these practices were reviewed by Bank missions and were found
satisfactory. These commodities and the respective limits are: petroleum,
US$50 million; maize, US$100 million; soybeans and soybean products, US$100
million; and rubber, US$50 million.
877.      Under PROSTOCK, goods and services, shall be procured in accordance
with the normal commercial practices of the final borrowers. Goods to be
procured for improving the market infrastructure, in the second tranche of
the loan, would be subject to international competitive bidding where
contract values exceed US$3 million. Local competitive bidding procedures
acceptable to the Bank would apply for contracts below that figure. The
hiring of consultants under this part of the loan would be made under Bank
guidelines. Prior review by the Bank would be required for all contracts
over US$500,000 in this part of the loan. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the above procurement procedures would be
followed.
Disbursements
88.       Disbursement for general imports from eligible countries and
territories would be made on presentation of satisfactory evidence of:
(i) physical entry of the imports into the country; (ii) actual payment in
foreign exchange for such imports; and (iii) evidence that the prices of the
imported goods are reasonable and in line with international price quotations
and past experience. Bank disbursements would be based on statements of
expenditure, each of not less than US$1 million, to be submitted to the Bank
by the Central Bank. The detailed documentation evidencing expenditures,
which is to be retained by the Central Bank and available for inspection by
the Bank, would be duly audited in accordance with standard Bank
requirements. In order to ensure rapid disbursement of the loan, eligible
import payments would include those made between March 1, 1986 and loan
signing, up to a' limit of US$100 million. These would consist mainly of
agricultural imports made under the emergency import program following the
recent severe drought in the Centre South. Based on estimated import
requirements by the country, disbursements of the first tranche are expected
to be completed before December 31, 1986 and of the import component of the
second tranche before June 30, 1987. Given the nature of the proposed loan,
IBRD standard project disbursement profiles are not applicable. Tha Central



- 25 -
Bank would be responsible for ensuring that the above agreements on the
general import component are complied with.
89.       The disbursement of PROSTOCK would depend upon the speed at which
the PBs would organize themselves to operate the new credit line and also
upon the relative movement of domestic and international interest rates.
However, full disbursement is expected before the end of 1987. Disbursements
from PROSTOCK would be made against statements of expenditure by PBs to the
Central Bank, and initial disbursements into the fund would be made by the
Bank on presentation of statements of expenditure by the Central Bank. These
resources would be managed by the Central Bank as a revolving line of credit.
90.       Under the commercial infrastructure component of the loan, the Bank
would reimburse 100% of the cost of consultants (fees, travel, subsistence
and support services) and equipment to be procured. Full documentation to
evidence eligible expenditures would be required for disbursement under this
component. This couponent would be fully disbursed before December 31,
1988.
91.       The Government may request the Bank to make advance payments into a
Special Account in the Central Bank to meet expenditures under the PROSTOCK
and commercial infrastructure components of the loan. The initial deposit to
this account would be US$20 million. The Central Bank would be entitled to
make withdrawals from this account at the exchange rate applicable on the day
it disbursed its funds. The Bank would replenish this account on the basis
of withdrawal applications forwarded by the Central Bank.
Accounts and Auditing
92.       The Central Bank would maintain a Project Account, which would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. After the
audit and not later than four months after the close of its fiscal year, the
Central Bank would transmit to the Bank certified copies of the audited
accounts, together with a certified copy of the auditor's report which would
include a description of the audit procedures followed. The independent
auditors would, during the course of their annual audits, carry out such test
checks as were, in their professional judgment, required of the internal
controls over project transactions and of the implementation of these
controls. The test checks would specifically include the Special Accounts,
the preparation of statements of expenditure supporting disbursement
requests, and the verification of bills of lading for imports. The auditors
would include in their long-form reports such comments or observations as
they judged necessary on project transactions. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the audit arrangements would be as
described above.
Monitoring and Reporting
93.       Monitoring and reporting on the use of funds would be the
responsibility of the Central Bank; the progress of individual subprojects
would be the responsibility of the PBs. Each quarter the Central Bank would
submit to the Bank a summary report on subloans and disbursements based on
information provided by the PBs. Monitoring of the commercial policy aspects
of the loan and of disbursements for commercial infrastructure would be the



- 26 -
responsiblity of SEPLAN, which is coordinating the five commercial policy
working groups. Bank staff would also monitor closely the compliance of the
Government with the agreement on whieat and credit subsidies and trade policy,
which would be central to the Bank's future sectoral dialogue with the
Government. The Government has agreed to hold an exchange of views with the
Bank, whenever considered necessary by the Bank or the Government, on its
agricultural trade and pricing policies. Similarly, the Government has
agreed to hold joint annual reviews with the Bank on its rural credit policy
(para. 73).
Benefits and Risks
94.       Benefits.  The policy package supported by the proposed loan would
be an important step towards a more market-oriented allocation of resources
in the agricultural sector and towards the resumption of rapid sectoral
growth. The reduction of credit subsidies will bring about a freer and more
responsive market for agricultural investment credit. The proposed pricing
and trade policy reforms would assist in the development of more effective
marketing, storage and forward contracting and, in so doing, add to price
stability and producer confidence. The lowering of risks in the marketing
chain would reduce costs, to the benefit of both producers and consumers.
95.       The achievement of sustained growth in agriculture will help raise
rural incomes relative to those in the industrial parts of Brazil. A high
level of investment and growth in the sector is the best guarantee of rising
rural employment and the better provision of rural services. The proposed
reduction in subsidies for credit, wheat and alcohol, and the eventual
freeing of commodity markets, should also help to redress regional and social
imbalances, since most subsidies in the past have accrued to the larger,
capital-intensive enterprises, while trade policies have frequently
discriminated against basic food crops, on which small farmers are most
dependent for their incomes. Other actions to this end, as set out in the
Statement of Agricultural Policy, will consist of: (a) land reform; (b)
direct public investment in irrigation in the Northeast; and (c) the
direction of official rural credit towards small farmers.
96.       The trade policy package aims also at establishing conditions for
attracting low-cost international finance into Brazilian commodity markets
through bankers' acceptances. From the national point of view, this would
create substantial benefits in attracting new and relatively inexpensive
international finance into Brazil. From the fiscal point of view, it would
create benefits in reducing the need for EGF.
97.       Risks.  The long-term prospects for agricultural trade
liberalization, as well as for maintaining appropriate credit policies, have
been substantially enhanced by the new stabilization program adopted last
February. It should be noted, however, that the policy conditions of the
second tranche require some progress towards removing the price controls
which were temporarily imposed as a part of the stabilization program. This
could be delayed if the program does not succeed in keeping inflation
firmly under control, or if the Government perceives that the removal of
controls will result in a sharp acceleration of inflation. Should there be
any delay in lifting price controls, the policy conditions of second tranche
release would not be met on schedule, and the longer-term trade



- 27 -
liberalization objectives of the proposed plan would also be affected
adversely.
98.       This risk is considered manageable in view of the Government's
determination to bring inflation under control, coupled with strong popular
support for the stabilization program. This determination is reflected in
the proposed loan through the commitments to reduce the fiscal burdens of
credit and wheat subsidies. The initial results of the stabilization program
have been generally positive. As indicated in para. 15 above, the economic
measures being undertaken are likely to provide increased stability to the
Brazilian economy.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
99.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recomend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 5, 1986



- 28 -                                                      sage 1 of 7
A~~~~ Cimuam q. m) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ tmNKA   6
AFAA (20011AM IQ. so
TOTAL                            1512.0      H O12.0     5512.0
AGRICULTURL                       1534.4      1181.2     2375.7
1W   GNI  L CMSS)                      ..            *      1110.0            1675.9                   2144.3
m     WE1     E1   CElAP1
(22LOoUMu 07 OIL SqUXWALUMI)      254.0       412.0       740.0             9923.                   111.l
NomAS  Amm wIUL sTA0 _I
MULAUIOUNZ4E*I (C        ADM)   72594.0    95447.0   129552.0
maui IOIULTaNo (E OF TOTAL)        44.9        55.5        70.7              67.7 T47.
POPULNAUOU PMOJEC& M
POPUnAToN 11 V     2000 (M2.LL)                         171.1
rSTATIOArT POPULATION (KILL)                            295.0
FPoUIAniOE mousimm1
POPDUTION  11I 5
Pu sq. K11.                       5.5        11.3        15.2              45.0                     14.7
Pnr SQ. I. *021. LAD             44.4        45.4        52.4              91.1                     156.9
POPtILATI  ON IC  33C1i25 (5)
0-14 Yu                         43.5        42.5        37.2             32.5                      31.2
15-" YU                          53          54.2        5S.7              57.1                     51.5
55 AN10 AD0                       2.5         3.0         4.0               4.2                      7.2
POfILAION RIUT un (I)
TOTAL                             3.1         2.5         2.3               2.4                       1.6
DUAL                               5.7        5.0         4.0               3.6                       3.7
-        BIR 512TH mE (MU TNOU)   42.7        35.0        30.3              30.9                     23.
CUUE D0*A LT  (PE ruTOus)          12.9        10.3         5.2               *.0                      5.9
03S0  IPR0 IOUC   SIaE              3.0         2.4         1.9               2.0                       1.5
YAKILY PLANNING
ACCPTORS. ANUAL tSO)               ..       111.0
DSIS (b of fuZD IOIIUI)            ..         ..         50.0              45.3
111   Of FOOD PM. PER CAPITA
1969-71-100)                       89.0       102.0       130.0             109.6                    109.1
P_  CAPITA SPPLY Of
cu..zu (Z or Uqlnhm     S)       101.0      103.0       111.0             113.2                    131.5
NOTEINS (QM    PU DAT)           50.0        60.0        64.0              69.4                     92.4
OF ICa ArINAL AM PUS            25.0        34.0        36.0       /      34.2                     34.3
C1LD ;(ACS 1-4) DEATH AT           16.2        11.5    *     .0               4.5                      4.7
LUIE l111t. AT 5RS1I ClUS)         54.7        56.9        63.7              64.8                     67.2
=1T11 1mu. amE (Pu NW0S)          115.5        95.5        70.0              59.7                     53.3
ACUSS TO KAlE VATIR (:101)
TOTAL                              *-        55.0        71.0 Id           65.3                      70.2
UA                                 ..        78.0        50.0              76.5                     69.4
UL                 -               ..        2t.0        51.0 d            44.2                     57.0
ACCZSS TO EMX=  DISPOSAL
(I OF POPMATIOU)
TOL                                ..        5.0         64.5 /a           56.3                      59.6
U23*                              ..         55.0        52.7              73.4                     65.9
535U*                              ..        24.0        31.711            25.5                     47.6
POPULAIOI PUR PKISICXAN           2210.0     2130.0         ..             1909.7                    1070.6
PO. PUER 30R23    lESSON         2510.0      1120.0         ..               011.2                   769.5
POP. PM HOBSPAL N0
TOTAL                           310.0       270.0       250.0 /.          362.0                    328.3
23m11                           250.0       320.0         ..              422.0                    201.9
5U05L                              ..         ..          ..             2716.7                   4519.7
AMISSION1S PU H0SPITAL SED          ..         15.4         ..               27.5                     20.0
AVEUCI siZ  OF Eo0SElD 
TOTAL                              5.1        '.8         4.9 /a
UR23N                              ..         4.6         4.77; 
RURAL                             ..          5.2         5.3 7..
AVESACG NO. OF PERSUOS/R0OON
TOTAL                              ..         1.1
URBAN                             ..          1.0         .
RURAL.                            ..          1.2
PUCENTACE OF &WELLINGS VUrr ELEC.
TOrAL                            38.7        47.6        67.4 /d
.1N                                ..        75.6        68.5 T.                    
ROMAL                              ..         6.4        20.67.



29  -                                 ~~~~~~ANNEX  I
-29-
Page 2 of 7
SLUKAL                - 3     .SXIZ INDICATORS DATA 11
EDAZIL LrRFIEm GROIUIPS (H O AVR ) V                                     _a
MIT                     (NOSY Unew" Eamar) Lb
aoGeaL     iI70L t 211S             hIDOLEI INm            NZDU  tNUS.
ESYDIA23 ItOt!   k.5  LAT. ANRCS  CAR        E1*O1E
AJUSTID ENROLLUN ItRATIOS
PFRIAT,   TOTAL                  95.0        14.0       96.0 j            106.7                   101.9
ALZ                  *97.0        14.0        91.0            U10.5                     106.2
FENALK                93.0        80.0        93.0             104.0                     97.5
SIWSIDYs TOTAL                   11.0        26.0       32.0 t,           ".2                      37.5
HALE                   11.0       26.0        29.0              42.7                     ".9
RIUILL                 10.0       27.0        35.0              44.9                     50.0
VAOCTKORAL (2 OP SCOIART)          0.0        0.0         0.1 I            13.3                     21.0
PUPIL-TEAGHU RATIO
PrIM                             33.0        28.0       26.0 lb           29.9                     25.1
S UCONDAIT                       13.0        12.0       14.0               10 t6.7                 19.1
P6833 CS/TIWOSIID POP               7.6        1G.6       48.9 d            46.0                     54.2
RADOO U=CEIVS1ITiNOMSAND POP       65.4       108.4      334.9             328.3                    170.7
TV URCEIV S/uAS POP                16.5       44.3       122.2              112.4                   149.3
MIPAPU (VDALY  CUN3LAL
INTREST) CIACfLATION
PR TNHOUSAN POPULATIC             52.9        35.6       43.0 lb           61.1                     97.0
CINDI ANIM  ATTMIICCAPI?A           4.4         2.0        1.1               2.4                      2.7
LANDSONC
TOTAL LABOR FORCI (TNOUS)       23326.0    30411.0    43736.0
-EIME ( NPERCT)                  17.2        20.1       23.5              23.6                     30.3
A5UCULIU   (PRNT)               51.9        45.6       29.9 /             31.4                    40.8
IINITRY (PERCENT)                14.8        13.3       20.4 11           24.3                     23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PgRCEIT)
TOL                              32.1        31.7       33.7               33.5                    43.1
1E                               52.7        50.3       51.6               51.3                    55.1
FxALRZ                           11.2        12.8       15.6               15.9                    314
EZCfNEC D       lICT RATIO          1.4         1.4        1.2                1.3                     0.9
INOM  o  rrrv DCR
P33316 OF PSIVAT INCONK.
RECEIVD 11
UIT STor .O.UOO DS                ..          ..
-C15T 201 OFOUSS                 0 0.0    U 3.5
LOVEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLS           3.3         3.2
LOVEST 403 OPF 3osinWS           10.8         9.0
csTrA   A SL    PVT INCOK
LmRL (US$ PSIt CPITA
UYI                               ..          ..         ..               286.3
A                                 ..          ..       150.0 E            185.3
TK           RLAMPOVERTY I
LOIT= (US$ PF  CAPITA)
xAN                               ..          ..       405.0 7c           519.3
UAL                               ..          ..       332.0 7-           359.7
ESTIMAT1D POr. BUM ABSOLUTE
POWER?! I1COM LVEL (C)
UN"                               ..          ..
RURAL                             ..          ..
NOW AVAILALE
MOr APPLZCAE
I OS T S
/a  The group aerag  for eacb Lndicator &ca populatio*-r.lhted arittmtic m_. Coera  of countrie
a_g the Indicators depend. o. avalabitLy of date and is nt ufLfore.
lb  Ul... otheazwie noted. "Data for 1960" rufor to any yer bet_ n 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970' betue.
1969 nd 1971; and data for "I.t Bacet Ketat_e batuee  1961 and 1963.
Ic 1977; /d 1980; /a 1976; /f Neginuing 1973. primary and secondazy education coer age grospa 7-14 and
15-17 iacomd of 710o and 017 in erliar year; Eherefore* .met recet aettautee are nt teDAWacble
uith earler daca; & 1976; /h 1979.
JmU, 1985



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 7
DeNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Note: Although the data re drawn from mourne generily judged the moat authoritatve sad reliable, it shoul also be noted that they may not be internadonally
comparable because of the lack of unardid definitions and concet used by different countrie in collcing the dat The udata ae. nonethele. uM  to
decribe onrers ormagnitude. indicate trends and chrcterinz cran major differences between countrime
The refre_ groups ae (l) the -me country group of the aubjlet country and (2) a country sgup with somewhLt hilher aveap income than the country
group of the ubject country (aecept or 'HIgh Income Oil Export" group wher 'Ilddl Income North Africa and Middke East Ishosen becaus or stronSer
soci.cultural afnites). In the refeennc group data the averaga ar populaion weighted arithmetc mean for each Indkitor and shswn only when nijority
or the cauntnue Ins group ha data for that Indcator. Sincc the covege ofcountr among the Indicator depends on the availability ordato and is not unifornm
caution must be eercised in relting averap of one inodklor to another Thes average amre only ueful In comparing the value or one Indicator at a time among
the country and reference goups.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                          Crude 5b Ret. (per thoumand)-Numbcr ofrlive births in the year
Toni-Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters;  per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                       Crude Deth Rate (per thousmd)-Number or deaths in the year
.%gicufhra-Estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year populadon; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanently for crops. pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to  GrowJ Reprodaeio Rate-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                           will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-pecific fertility rates; usually Eve-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at curmnt         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World    Ramfy Plmna-Aceprors, Anna (thousandrI-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basis); 1983 data.                          ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     Penally Pmlan-fUsers (pent ofmrrd wmen)-The prcen-
petroleum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                 groups.
Totna Popuation.  fi-Ye (thousadsJ-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.    FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Inkx ofFood Produdon Per Capita (196-71 = I1OOJ- Index orper
Urba  Popuatio  (percent of total)-Ratio of urban to total      capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excudes animal feed and seed for agricutur  Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include priamary comnodities (e.g. sugarcan  instead of sugar)
Popation Projectio                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffec and tea are
Population in year 2000-The projection or population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds,
madc for each economy separately. Starting with infornation on  vegetables, fruits, nuts, sugarcane and sugar beets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggrcgate production or each country is based
inernational migration in the base year 1980. these parameters  on riational average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.             Per capta Suppy  fcaries (percent efrequ _ements)-Comput-
Stationary population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate = 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal fecd, seeds for use in agriculturc, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The -.tationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperatur, body weights,
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                      waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Population Momenwnu-Is the tendency for population growth to    Per Capita Supply of Pein (granrS per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momnentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a mtio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. or which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment kvel from year t onward. 1985 data.                        75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Popuaion Densiy                                                 average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                Per Capita Prorei Spply From Anieal and Pke-Protein supply
Per sqJcm. agricultural land-Computed as above for agricultural  of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Populaion Age Structare (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-  ClilM(ages 1-4j Death Rate (per rhousad)-Number ofdeaths o
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.              group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populatfio Growth Rate (powncenrj-.oral--Annual growth rates of  from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950.60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
Popultio  Grwthk Rate (per       rba    Annual growth rates     Life Erpreany at &rh (years)-NLanber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant woo old live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
-31-                                            Page 4 of 7
at the time of of its birth were to stay the same throughout its life;  PupdI-teacher Ratio - primary,. and secandarr-Total students en-
1960, 1970 and 19U3 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by nimbers of
InJure Mwsraly Rate (per thora-dN -Number of infants who die   teachers in the corresponding levels.
before reaching one year or age per thousand live births in a given
year, 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMI1TION
Acca go S5y Waw  (patent of papultlnt-tatIb, 8w         d      Passewr Can (per thousd porslain)-Passenger cars com-
rwWa-Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons: excludes ambul-
aacess to sate water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances, hearses and military vehicles.
untated but uncontaminated water such as that from pitoected   Rodo Receivers (per thousa-ndpopulatin)-AIl types of receivers
borehols, springs and sanitary wells) as pezuantages of their respes-  for radio broadcasts to general public per thousand of population:
dve populations. In an urban area a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in years when
loated not more than 200 meters from a house may be considered  registration of rdio sets was in effect; data for recent years may
as being within reasonable accss of that house. In rural areas  not be comparble sinc most countries abolished licensing.
reasonable access mould imply that the bousewife or members of the  tRe o(per   sand   contrc     receiversfroc
houselhold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  Tv genersa(luper thousandpopulaion:TV  receivers forbruiadct
in fetching the family's water needs.                          to geeras pubic per thousand popuyation; eadudes unlofTVsed TV
Access to Ereta DIposal (peet of pp o)-tfal urbn,              reivers   countris and in years when registtion of V sets was
ad rul-Number of people (total. urban, and rural) served by    in e
excreta disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  G "WF" Crcultion (per thondpopulatima--Shows the aver-
Excreta disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or  age circulation of 'daily general intercst newspaper." defined as a
without treatment. of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording geaeral news.
borne systems or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be "daily- if it appears at least four times a week.
Poplaio per PhysidanPFpulation divided by number of prac-      Cima A_na Attedace per Capta per Year-Based on the
tising physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
Polida per Nurin Person-Population divided by number of        drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurses. assistant nurses,
practical nurses and nursing auxiliaries.                      LABOR FORCE
Popuation per Hospita led-total, urba. ad roraP-Pbpulation     Total Labor Fomce (thosandr)-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
students. etc.. covering population of all ages. Definitions in
hospital beds available in public and private geneal and  emled vroscutisaentopabe190170nd95dta
hospitals and rehabilitation centes Hospitals are cstablishments  vanous countries am not comparabk; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data
permanendy staffed by at least one physician. Establishments prov-  Femk (percr)-Female labor force as percentage of total labor
iding prncipally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.  force.
however, include health and medical centers not pemanently staffed  Agricnkre (percent)-Labor force in fanning, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse. midwifc, etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilities.                                       - Indsty (percent)-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
Admission per Hospill BLd-Total number of admissions to or     facturing and ckctricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Pericipation Rate (percet)-total maek.  dfem Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total. male, and female labor force
Ava  S   of Househol (pons per ouseholdtoal. urba.             as percentages of total. male and female population of all ages
andrural-A household consists ofa group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
lving quarters and their main nmals A boarder or lodger may or  panicipation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the population. and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources
Average Number of Persons per Rosn-total, urban. ad rural-     Econoe Dependency Ratio-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings, respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Pereage of DOerings wth Elecricity-otoal urban and rura-       Prcenage of Total Disposab  Income  (both in cash and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentil groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and mual dwellings respectively.         hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adusted Enroment Raties                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmwary school - total. mak and female-Gross total. male and  levels. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of ag ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimaed Absoate Poerty Incone  Lewd (U$ Per capita)l-rban
respective primary school-age populations. While manv countries  ad rural-Absolute poverty income eved is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differences in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esniated Relat Povery income Level ({US1 per capita)-urban
education. gross enrolment may exceed 100 percent since some   and rural-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are beow or above the country's standard primary-shool  average per capita personal income of the countrv. Urban level is
age.                                                           derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondury school - total. male and female-Computed as above,   living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at least four years of approved pri-  Ereted P patwn Below Abstre Poverty Incom  Level (per-
mary instruction; provides generaL vocational. or teacher training  centr-arban and rural-- Pfrcent of population I urban and rural
instructions for pupils usuaDly of 12 to 17 years of age: correspond-  who are '-absolute poor.
ence courses are generally excluded.
Vocationa Enroltmeni (percmnt of secondaryr-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analvsis and Data Division
tions include technical. industrial, or other programs which operate   Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 32 -
I
F_ 5 of 7
- -                 - D S
iepanLI        129.7 .lIlm  (mid-1983)
Ow Far Cti  11SI.890 (1t93)
t= Imlitm  M                                                       Aumi GM"h bt  CZ)
OMt Prim
Indleator                    (1984)                              Actual                                                        Projected
975      1 19W    1981      182        t83      1964d          19151     19J6      1987      1981       3919      1990
lu Dtic  P         naict/a    212,300         5.6       7.2     -1.6       0.9       -3.2      4.5            6.3       6.2       7.0       7.0       7.0        7.0
4pICAFure                    2f,238          2.7      6.2      6.4      -L5         2.2      4.3            L.        2.0       4.5        4.5       4.5       4.5
Wntly                        62,7S2         5.3       7.9     -2         0.8       -8        5.9            9.0       8.0       8.5       5.5        8.5       8.5
5KVtCM                      103,115         10.3      7.3    -0.1        1.7       -1.5      3.0            7.8       6.0       6.5       6.5        6.5       6.5
ozui                          165,571         8.4       3.5      0.2       3.3       -L0       0.6            8.3       4.7       5.2       6.5        6.3       6.1
Q             _L b             36.817        -7.0      12.1   -15.9       -4.2      -17.5       L0           12.2      2.9        12.3      12.0      11.8      11.6
Eqoar  Ot 3S5                  29.399         12.4     22.7     20.9      -.4        13A      24.9           -3.2      -1.0       5.4       3.6        2.3       5.3
mporu   oft 035                1,865         -9.6       1.8   -13.4       -5.2      -17.2     -6.5           -3.2      2L0        1.5       10.7      5.1        9.7
Gra Uazi  kwh                  23,818         -6.4     11.6   -16.6    -10.6         -3.4     2L6            11.7      26.3       15.0      11.3      U.1       12.6
Prum
GOP Dlftwr (19701C0)                         305      2.955    5,84      11.41     28.241   90.541
adl       l  (.B W.rCSMlSS)                   8.1      52.7     93.1     179.5      577.0  1,W.9
Sow of OP at lh t   Prim (C)                              A"Wozk Aowul 1_e (t)
(At Onmt -m)                                         (At Ox.tmt 19B4 Pim)
1975      1'         1985/d    190/C                        1975-8    199D45   198540
c*=  _tic PAK:t                      IC.O       IOW.0     IO0      1CO0                            6.5       0.8       6.8
agricAtu                             9.2       11.0      11.5      10.1                           9.5       2.2       4.1
1O&tZY                              31.1      28J       29.        31.                            4.6      -03        8.4
su5im                               43.6      468       467        47.6                           7.8       1.3       6.4
oq_tim                                76.6      81.3      76.        74.3                           7.7      -1.        5.8
._   IV 27.3                                     21.1      17.0      240                             2.8      -4.2      13.7
Esa G03S                               7.5       8.        32.5      104                            6.4      14.5       3.2
I1o 035                               11.4      11.2       7.4       8.7                           -1.3      -1.8       9.3
*iM N UAtII. Sdup                     22.1       16.1      17.1      D.O                           -1.6      -4.5      14.3
Anf 2 of GO
C(t OQMrc    aDM Prim)
Emij Fin   (Ge             m                              1970     1975    1979   1980/   1981/Z  19B'
cOmt   _U                                                 16.6     19J    2A.      2D.1    16.9    21.2
Onzrn    Fwb                                              14.4     15.6    17.6    19.8    2.2    25.4
s      (pl() or Deticit(-)                                2.2       4.0     3.2     0.3    -L4    -4.2
imi EInme                                                 2.6       3.8     3.7     4.1     3.5      3.4
F    YIzud  01t)                                         0.4      -0.2     0.5     3.9     4.9      7.6
COter T-    am                    19754a0  1980-65 198540
OF athmd  1Ra  CC)                  7.0      0.5     7.3
OW 1e.- Fe:a Ikth note CZ)          3.0     -1.9     5.0
P  r  Cxwazdlz Imut  Rae CZ)    6.5         -        -
MOR                                3.3      M67      3.0
tIM3lxin Savlw RU                   0.0      0.5     0.4
op- ElmotIricy                    -0.2    -2.4       1.4
/a At Ide   p     ; c m am we              at     or    t  ad dl ttt add due to eilusim of c  1ne r t t    S ad mu1dim.
h3 197540 est        -  fir  mas larnmt; eat1m for m;qumnt ya   re. fw fixd inu               . ith d=Ws tn atod. indl  mn aqx_ico.
7T  Frjnd ys   ~ at cuat  price.
7h Pmi~.y.
7f 1900182 -nd1-e g     z   apadflim iffaitad dzuoh the mxny bxp  and mizrg   rn               h  . - s.U - trafem to the fA-1 aterpim.
h   21. 1986



- 33 -
Pq 6 od 7
a u. -  mL  jN 
us$ -iiimi at                                            Ammlu1 a      ftRn (AW   - (at omt    1970 pr1m)Ld
0n,a Pru
Indicator                     (C9M)                                 ACLcu l                                                       P r o j a c L a d
1975     l98       1931      191 193              194        19" c    1986        19t7      1956 1969            1990
FEaLMl Tnw
3 hrdnul_mpoL            D         ,ws           23.9     21.2       9.9      -3.0        2.5      261          2.6      -3.0        5.        3.4        2.3       5.3
Prim>g"r                       10,357          30.7      M0A      46.8      -I0.1        143       3          245       -3.4        .2        3.8        3.6       3.6
lMAACEmb                       16,648           0.0      22.5     40.6        7.4         5       2.3         15.5       0.7        3.6       3.2        1.5      6.6
rUdmi1m       1                  13,916        -15.0       1.4      -9.4      20.3       -15.9     -2.2        -4.       22.0        L5       10.7       8.        9.7
Tom & 0=       Gb              1.535           LZ       11.2    -56.        -1.2        -.1      -2.0         3.0    IJ.0       43.6    P     .2       7J       6.7
Petrolem                       6.866           -La      *9.8     4.0        4.6       -10.6     43.7        -18.7      .2.3       11.3       8.6        La       9.9
Ibdd-uy ud qu1p -              2.151           9.6       6.4      -6.9     -32.2       -13.0      6.4        18.5      37.3       18        15.6       14.2      11.6
Otut3,361                                     -30.6     -L2        3.8     -20.3       -30.3     20.9        -9.0      2.0        10.9   YLI            9.4   0 .6
Pri
EOIt Pr1mud.I                                     89       147        123       114         97      ID         97   1 05            115       116        127       U9
IiatPrice P                                       7t       325        131      1 152       143   ICO            99         9         90        105        112      120
TM= of  le lc                                     125      lie         93        75        WA        100         98       112        iIO       111        113       116
rx nWP    of  1wml  Td  CZ)                                   Avb         m  b=m1   CC)
(at onmt Prim)                                          (at woatm  1970 prim)d
1975       1980      195        1990                           1975-U    103    196540
Eupmts                                 10D.0        0        0.0      U100.0                            5.8       11.0       3.2
P_rip                                 62.7      4.8        41.2      41.2                             1.1       86         3.6
tmdAmm/h                              37.3      552        58.8       59.8                           1.2 la   23.2         3.0
IOru                                   10.O    1O.D        100.0 o      0O                            -1.4      -2.7       I0A
Food and O_ r Gmd                      9.8      11.1       12.0      10.8                            17.5     - 4.5        7.9
Z51am                                 25.4      4          42.1       36.5                            4.3      -7.3        6.4
:-dd-7 -d SF4.                        2.5        15.       19.Z       2B.3                           -7.5      -34        I2
OamD                                  3L3       29.1       24.7       26.4                           -1.9      -1          9.9
S= of Tnam ,dth                 9     o td glth            S9    or trafr MM 0eu
Tzdmdal roztrlm  CZ)            9=1el1zg maul.. CZ)          Opiting monrtm  CZ)
Urecion if Tne                      1975      1960    1963          1975     39il    1963         1975      1960    13
E:-                               70.2      57.3    5.7           Z3.5      L5      ZL9          7.8      10.1     8.8
mmortz                            67.3     41.8    37.1           87       15.8    17.7         21.1      41.1    41.6
I. Fa  da ped  1981-1990. fr1..rY Prndlaacin lachul. EL-P_Cd I     we  p1z 1m
lb     Ur t  peend 1975-19801    zstam    foled  adu
jc Pzej_     y.
Td Pnoemod lqxxt  a  uqi m  an  198a  prim.
Mch 21a. 1986



- 34 -s
(CU1SS NhlUiea at C,nyeot Prime)
ltWio            329.7 Milano (AU-1961)
iMW ftr Capita.  Ucl,n9  (INS3)
at..a1~~~~~~~~~~~~
1973       1900       list        3902       INS3       3964        ties   -  191"        1917        19w        l395        1990
Met Ewort. of COW                      -0.102          -d t. 194 -11.2    -34.747   -blase         243       -GN      -1.153        -708       3.033     -3.443       -471
iMpLt of GOed.                        3.470     20.332      23.29      20.31t   Si.vi9        27.013    23.429      27.21 4     29, 9S     33.048      34.917     42.432
1iofLt of COWi                       12.210     22.111      22.093i    lo.39       1,49       13.930     13.129     31.396      34.10b5    19.034      22,0Dh    2S.7"
MetL Fctor I*nCi                     -1.133     -0.423      -9.133    -11.913    -30.333    -0.99"   -33. 30   -33.133    -1.2#3    - I3.464   -2e.00e    -12.1 1
(of Atcl InteOO.  paIM tm          (2.042)    (0.3333    (7.960)    (9.3202    (8.473)    (9.111)  (9.31          Co. (6,1)    (9.033)    (9,279)   (C. 2n)   (9.513)
an M&LT debt)
met MOP-FacLor arotCie               -3.429     -3.120      -2.63      -2.S"      -2.,07      -3.741     -3.7l9    -1.729       .2.373     -3.379      -4.194      4.377
Net Tramefaf                               13        124         too        -30        t           372        3 3S         0           0          0           0          a
Currat.  OCCavaL 1810ft.               -0.469    -91.1J8    -1i.004    -30.717      4.142          *17       -349     -1.761        -70      -3.023     -3.041        -473
Direct PrvLt  Iovet_nt                    692      1.121 3.163              99n l       04       3.014        793         193        al9      3.043       1.202      3,42
NIL? Lear. (ftL)                        0.631      0.93        5,30 es    7nn9       7.323       8.252        894       3.063      2.924      2.49        0.048      2.429
Orcs Wl.eremeast                    (C.952)   133.3133   (16.04s)   ( 14.963    (10.9033    34.096       30.513      1,30.3     10.223     17.22       11,326     171.00
Aoertlaatlio                         (12.132)    (4.20)   l0.119)    (1.464       (3.579j1   7.814        9.717      12.070     21.302     11.42       14.040     14.021
Nre.. tei A.l Abroad t(6.)               -190        -21        421        -9           322        034        400     -.400  e1,49            2.073      -2.320     -2,47o
Other CaPtadl (t-tlulleg *Trrr
aed a"Ioess)                            -71       3,102      2.153      2.704     -1.993      -3.G82     -1.38          139   s 491           00       -3         -430
C00.3  1. I  erve  I- Indicates
iecrease)                             3.223      3.369       -69        4.3155        24    -7.027         -43?       -174        -346       -9          -997     -1.244
Itnorlettessl Meeroo I.                 5.139      blitz2      7.305      1.210      3.71?      13 .90     12.43     13.207      11.396     14,114     1s1.12     3.713
o  .ht,bh E1du)                          1       1.143         90         I5         207        ...        0.a.       0.0.         ...       *...        "..         _
Rec,ar   am 31o.Lb0 of Inerta (CPS)         3.3         3.0        3.3        3.4        2.2         8.2        5.9         7.9        7.4        4.9         b.4        3.9
Kotrecl Capit.l a    a tb
Cre  Oab.r  eLc                         0.932     31.323      14.041     30.93      10.902      34.098     10.12    14.232        L0.22b     17.122    l3,326       17,000
Offitial crot.                         -          -           -          -
Cbelomealoa   L.                        30 12        to         3t        ISO
DAC                                    37         lb          II        IN3       -           -          -          -           -          -           -          -
erDe                                 -          -          -           -          -           -          -          -           -          -          -           -
Otber                                  15          3           1
Mem-Conce-Imeal La                    0.310      32.294     16.026 1    4,802      30,89      16.09111   10.411      16.32      1.224      171.22      16.323     17,0o
Offieial cmPar Crodtta                313        n12          1s        042      1.099       3.307      1.20        13 200     3.160      1.26        3 .2Z D     .043
S16D5                                 26         243         36         423      3.204       2.294        79   e     .40       3.731     I2,2         2.696      1.D3
Othr Nltiateral                       119         16         390        333        237         249        29          232        256        307         371        421
Privat                              *,130     1o0.23      14.962     13.007      6.37       21.223      8.312     33.311      23,050     31,078      14.427      3.723
Eter l Debt
Doa l OwLsttandg OMd 0tDlerced       23.4l      34.499      00.625     73.024     79.36   e".Gs          U.017      9I.G99      94.623     96,292    302.339    10.996
Pab1cFullp CO-rmted                33,649     29,54      44.823      49,91    s3.04         09.367     36.07      91.69       94.623     93.29      102.339    20S3,9
PrIae Voe,oaaaed                    9.9512    Islam       39.792     23.1m2     22.312      i9.221     eal                    0..                  0.           0 *.
ladt.bered Debt                       3.761      21.,22     12.043     14.322      13.917    13.727       13.0       14.923     23.432     33.34       21.130     1s.l2
IS11 1r063  (23
1W  d*a,r_eaettocat  reoem
disbursomete                 3.5        3.2        2.4         4.2.      32.1        0.9         7.4        3.1        10.7       10.7        10.2       30.5
I33   O0/t ol 105                         4.7        3.7         3.0        2.7        4.4         4.3        4.6        1           0.17       7.4         6.2        6.7
I    DDbt  rtvaeltotal dobt Sewito        2.5        2.1         2.3        2.1        4.2         3.5        4.2        4.0         4.7        3.7         6.6        7.6
WMl SereIce
Total .Sr.Ic  Ferments /b             3.470      23.4l2     21.332     14.622      32.204     2e.76      19.071 2   2.411       22. 32     22.732      23,.9      723.57G
tfttreeLIG                          I.U9       4.321       7.936      9.341      7.62        9.864      9.313      5.744       9.033      9.279       9.19       9.396
Popoceta -   :Zpora (CPS)                31.5       34.3        40.0       73.?       44.Off      72.3       49.2       73.1        70.0       03.3         S.        33.7
Car-teod Lt  (2) L.                        6.7        12.7       15.3       12U.        11.4       21.9        9.          9.4        9.2         9.2        9.2        9.0
official                                  8.0        9.1        10.5       10.9        10.5       ..a.   n ... n ..                  .      -      .         a           .
Fridct' Seorco                            3.9        13.4       24.3       13.1        11.0       0          ae..        0..        0.0.           .          .       0
403  Ibtority  t oM
Cearaote.d Lea.o (Teara) IC                9.0        9.7         9.7       30.9         9.2        9.4        30.2       13.1       22.0        12.5       11.3        lls.
Offidcal                                 26.4        32.7       12.0       12.?        32.9       -          0..         0.            .       o.a         0.         0.0.
Prie.te sour,c                            *.9        6.9         9.0       30.2        6.4        ..a.         .0 -.                ..          ..         0.0.       Ol.
as K     Dot etct"dift
arh 1951S
lHtLr1ty Strucr  at PbtlIc Dobt o ratmiq
pIIt dtlie  dam oAths   7 Yoars                                 00.
IMaritim ett     .1thl.  10 pear.                               95.
ltro rt Strmtnre of Debt DOtctadse:
_              loter_at do  aitbhi  th. tlrt Year                             0
Ic  Done  o  loclode gold  _  dol.r *.d at2oo  djast-emt.
Tb  Itervat  o  -ortiaotisw    , odAl  ead 1o_ It r  dobt.
7- PbilIc Dobt ooy for 1973.
W   lot    t  o sd_o. od  7og-tem dobt.
7W  Xol.i  _tr amcrtiattao  ctaly  Pied.
_. - not 0.01080                                                                                                                                 Notc  21. 1964



- 35 -
ANNf II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BNK GROUP OPERAIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SMfARY STAMENT OF LOANS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amu  less  Undig-
Loan f  Year            Borrower                  Purpose       Cncellatiom  bed
Seventy nine loans fully disbursed                                  3,672.7
1317     1976  Brazil                          Agro-Industry          83.0        24.6
1452     1977  Brazil                          Education              32.0         .9
1488     1977  Brazil                          Rural Development       11.0        1.1
1537     1978  Brazil                          Rural Developmnt       24.0       11.6
1538     1978  ELEIIOBRAS                      Power                 127.4        8.1
1568     1978  Brazil                          Agric. Extension      100.0         .2
1589     1978  Brazil                          Rural Development      37.0        11.0
1656     1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage    100.0           .1
1714     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      26.0       14.6
1720     1979  Brazil                          Urban Development      70.0       18.5
1721     1979  CDPEL                           Poner                  109.0      22.3
1728     1979  Brazil                          Rural Development      31.4        6.8
1729     1979  Brazil                          Irrigation             28.0        3.1
1730-5   1979  Brazil                          Roads                  107.9       3.9
1822-5   1980. Brazil/hNDE                     Pollution Control      34.0       22.2
1823     1980  Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           130.0         .1
1839     1980 Brazil                           Urban Transport       159.0       26.9
1850     1980 Bgaco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            139.0       13.5
1867     1980  Brazil                          Education              32.0       14.2
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais           Rural Development      63.0       45.5
1895     1980 ELETROSUL                        Power                 100.5       56.2
1924     1981  Brazil                          Rural Development      56.0       12.4
1939     1981 ElETROBRAS                       Power                  54.0       39.2
1965     1981  EBrU                            Urban Transport        90.0       46.0
1970     1981 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            180.0       69.5
1989     1981  Brazil                          Alcohol Development  250.0        20.3
2015     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            29.0        13.3
2016     1981  Brazil                          Agriculture            60.0        4.9
2060     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            67.0       25.6
2061     1982  Brazil                          Health                 13.0         4.5
2062     1982 Brazil                           Highuays              240.0       60.8
2116     1982 Brazil                           Agriculture            26.4        11.1
2138     1982 ELETROBRAS                       Pbwer                  182.7      141.5
2163     1982  Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4        16.2
2170     1982 Brazil                           Urban Development     123.9       99.2
2177     1982  Brazil                          Rural Development      42.7       27.0
2193     1982  Brazil                          Urban Development       8.9        3.1
2196     1982  CVRD                            Iron Ore              304.5       69.3



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A. SUMHARY STAITEENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Amount less Undis-
Loan    Y Year          Borrower                   Purpose      Cancellations  bursed
(US$ Millio1s)
2224     1982  Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0      102.6
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply            302.3      134.8
2268     1983  Brazil                         Agro-Indnstries        400.0      358.5
2269     1983  Brazil                          Rural Development      67.8       57.7
2343     1983  Brazil                         Urban Development       52.7       40.1
2347     1983  Brazil                          Ezport Development   352.0         .7
2348     1933  Brazil                          Agriculture           303.0        .5
2353     1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            65.2       57.5
1729-1   1983  Brazil                         Agriculture              7.7       7.7
2060-1   1983 Brazil                           Agriculture            22.8       22.7
2364     1983 Eletrobras                       Pouer                 250.6      223.0
2365     1983 Eletrobras                       Power                 222.8      103.3
2366     1983  Brazil                          Education              20.0       13.6
2412     1984  Brazil                          Edication              40.0       33.0
2446     1984  Brazil                          Federal Highways      210.0      165.5
2447     1984  State of Sao Paulo              Health                 55.5       49.4
2448     1984  Brazil                          Health Studies          2.0        2.0
2488    J1985  Brazil                          Development Banking   300.0      249.3
2489    A0945  Brazil                          Education              72.0       64.5
2523     1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.3       58.0
2524/1   1985  Brazil                          Rural Development      61.4       61.4
2532/T   1985  Brazil                          Rural WS&S Pilot       16.3       16.3
2563     1985  Brazil                          Ra2bways              200.0      184.8
2564   - 1985 Eletrobras                       Power Transmission    400.0      388.8
2565     1985  Eletrobras                      Power Distribution    312.0      301.0
2593/1   1985  Brazil                          Land Tenure           100.0      100.0
262373   1985  State of Santa Catarina        Urban Development       24.5       24.5
2654/7  1985  Brazil                           Urban Reconstruction  100.0      100.0
Total                                              11,147.10/2
Of which has been repaid to the Ba                  21693i
Total now outstsndiug                               8,977.73
Amoont sold                             45.8
Of whidh has been repaid              45.8            0.0
Total now held by Bank                              8,977.73
Total undisbursed                                              3,890.5
/1 Not yet effective.
T2 No iDA credits have been ude to Brazil.
/3 Not yet signed.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA fianced projects In execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 37 -                                                             t
,  BTAIW W EEC f uc         (s of ia,d  SI. 13
Mam.                                                            ~it  In 3M" tllsn
'hr                                      0 b 11                                      l aIat bJ_                        Lains 1 Bqtty    Total
I"?7                 S am   b kalL Ci. de Eterdddl                                 Eacti  Ptss                           2.00       -       2.00
19W                  OUutrktt. S. A. GCuajolmes. PqA                               fjiI ad Pape                          1.2        -       I.20
[VA6                 D. L. L. rIstIC  do tal,. S. A.                              htitAw  Pats                          (1.4!       -       0.41
193                  IlUyi-OarIad do Mal. S. A. -  lstda a Oner.                  mr anddcls                             A.4S       -       243
1959                 mcea   udo Ca s   Itia. S A. .                                        l1.D                                     -       1.30
1'5                 aOlain OshaIo. L. A.                                          Rtp                                    4.0        -       4.00
1966fl91172         a   WMLLL , S. a.                                             Std                                     00       1.93     9.93
196W1G9             PFd * GaIuIOSi CIrISO, S. A.                                   hUp  d Pqi                            3.78     s5.       9.49
t967/L972           ILtrufatll. S. a. - IS.-tria . Onwo de Feai"lzn               VacuIlzuu                              622       3.03    1 1.25
196                  Pttoqdadca tii, 5. A.                                         P*trdel             SAi                .50     L2e8    8.3
1970                 Pbltoldflcm, S. a. Izturla a G rci                          PhtradelcaLa                            5.50      2.8      6.38
1971                Odoem. S. A. Inatfla a Qu_d.                                  Atrdadv        s                       4.0       1.44 6.
1971                 rt. Qudi - Gpda di CSmulm do 3.1                              hIp                                   4.9D       -       4.90
1972/1975/191          i      de hawOn odb wd de Itows                            rgs                                  169.14      6.70   375.4
1973/74/fl/81l3084   CQvma Sdala da ted_. -_ 0a0                                   Sted                                 76.97     15.IS    92.24
1913                CqtaL  aete tdlqnr Rax  - RICiP                               Cqcal Ilt biis                         5.00      -        5.0
197YW7811983   1      n    de O     ovum  de    rua de inP  - WOO. S. A.   MdiqI tug al Rd fg                           6sm        8.74    93.J4
1974                 Indutrta Vllluw. S. A.                                        Lien. ad raucA  Eq4et  6W00                     -        #A.0
1974                 Fabid  de ThdOb Morn. S. A.                                  Tilttl                                1W1.       -       31.0J
197511979           Cq.uma CAbim  ba&      iLt                                    Cabx Black                             6.15      L9       7.37
1975                (oGta Nudate. S. A.                                           Patrudem a                            1m0         -      10.00
W976                Samlat    mcra - c U          dta n s. S. A. 8Tl1m                                                   6.45      1.0      7.45
197bt19FD           Te1    S. A. - sDll Ceanne do tdhi                            Te1ciml                               L6.20       -      IM.M
1977                RS S. A. Punteta IIsatuqgls                                    Ulm ad AluaSm CaSw gs.0D                         -        LOO
19n7                  c ourac   Wo do bite S. A.                                  *t1mng                                15.00       -      ISW
1978                areas 1Sangla S. A.                                            tram ad td                            LJ  1      .00    11.38
1979                 Ibil,doldItours ie les, S. A.                               tHar V4.cm                             .om        5.27    65.27
19FW                terg db Nuce S. A. - t-le                                      tayrM s Cme                           2.D        -       2.00
19W                  DuI dD FM  SMA - _ey   - 1talen. lduatrla
. Ondo de tliaglms                                         Pelel                                 150        1.00 L   ..50
19WD                 ViUsr  Dtatrta de le S. A. - VIIW                             Uim  ad  teel                         so         -       S.0
3Y89                PPd - bexa La Itl al de tllprIam                              Cids ad Podidc1                       W         2.0     17.00
1961                 DacilAel daLnw    S. A.                                      O2ma   s _d a   emvdm_ls                -        0.3      0.25 5
19FD                SxAs         'a Oasis e Marerl ./A                             pFtili                               35.0       6A00    41.00
39W                 Fb3a- Penoq.dca                                               Mankaio ad d      huedclmle          43M       s50    4.D0
I981                 laupwr                                                        May ad CpIte  11lhc                    -        1.50     1.50
198                   a ts hIdltis de Apmpq.nsria - C MREd ad tad brenlur                                                53        341D     8.50
198t                lThnoE                                                           ain    ad PFcdumicals              46.00      AG0     S.OO
19Y2                 lto cUE                                                           .1  tswucctan   La               40.00      5.00    45.00
1982                  iledmz  S. A.                                               1by Cqlt"I Ma                         1Lt0.00   0.45    33.45
336                  CLa  Mageads  de Par1c1poa (CaP)                               1. Qtae Hake                         -          .0D      .01
96                  0AclP Fdwre                                                    SOd aid dFool Pmrivg                 100        -        13.00
1983                   p t2 be da  tps CmW                                         FAR alt                               6.10      -        6.10
Low                  PISL - Prel de (aqu  S.e                                       "  S POW erPUC.                     609U0      5.17    6S17
1963                 SWoWVS6                                                      tat ad Fac rtusdag                    3.0       2.50     5.50
1963                 cnw                                                           ram   ad Ca raonhmz MacdaI           35.m       -       35i00
m                    SucIer Ptelce                                                Ohdfens ad Ptcred cals                 3.0       5.00     8.00
1964                 0dta Aalqlqce MItaot                                          Chdirals ad Ptr_udimli               2D.00      4.00    24.00
1985                 Qa4dma de di                                                 Cetals ard Perodetcel                  3.D       I.63     5.00
TWcal On  Onset                                                                          935.42    105.72  1,041.14
lA S CWAatIIm. TsfONteis.  sepa ad Sas                                                   h79.95     2.78   710.73
1ThaI  nst  law Bad by ltC                                                               255.7      74.94   33041
lbut lIditrud                                                                             644       14.82    79.26
Apri 11. 96



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Agency which prepared project           Ministries of Planning,
Finance and Agriculture,
Central Bank
(b)  First mission to review the project:  February 1984
(c)  Departure of appraisal mission       : May 1984
(d)  Departure of re-appraisal mission  : October 1985
(e)  Completion of negotiations           : May 24, 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        :  September, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Conditions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions for Release of the Second Tranche of the Loan (para. 75)
i)   The Government would have agreed with the Bank on a program
of reform in trade and pricing policy for cotton, soybeans,
soybean products, maize and rice, specifying short-term and
longer-term actions in each of the f.,jlowing policy areas:
price stabilization, risk management, storage finance, trade
regulation and market information;
(ii) the Government would have taken first steps to initiate the
reforms in each of the five policy areas noted in (i) above;
(iii)   the Government would have approved the regulations for a new
credit facility, denominated in US dollars, for financing
hedged commodities held in store in Brazil (PROSTOCK); and
(iv) the Government would have agreed with the Bank on a phased
program of reductions in the budget allocations for
subsidizing wheat production and consumption.
(b)  Other Special Conditions
Assurances were received from the Government at negotiations, as
follows:
(i)   the rural credit interest rates would be maintained in
accordance with the amendment to Loan 2348-BR. The



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Government would review the operations of the new rural
credit policy with the Bank before February 28, 1987 and
annually thereafter (para. 73); and,
(iii)   the Government would conduct a regular exchange of views with
the Bank on the agricultural trade and pricing policy aspects
of the loan and would furnisb the Bank with progress reports
prior to these discussions (para. 93).
Assurances were received from the Central Bank at negotiations that it
would establish and operate PROSTOCK in a manner satisfactory to the
Bank and would enter into agreement with participating banks providing
for on-lending terms and conditions as specified in paras. 83 to 85.



- 40 -
ANNEX IV
Table I of 10
BRAZ I L
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Key Indicators of Agricultural Sector Performance, 1970-1984
1970    1975     1980    1981   1982      1983    1984
Agricultural sector as S of GDP tS)   12.2    10.2        9.1     9.9      9.6     9.5      13.0
Harvested area (million he) a/         33.8    40.9      46.9    45.8    48.2    42.5      47.2
Gross value of crop output
(Dec. 1970 CrS billion)              16.9    29.1      30.1    32.0    27.7    27.0       n.a.
Gross value of basic food crops b/
(Dec. 1970 CrS billion)              10.2    13.8      13.2    14,5    11.3    10.0       n.s.
Total volume of rural credit c/
(Dec. 1984 CrS trillion)             15.0    42.4 d/ 46.9    40.7    39.4    29.7        18,2 e/
Rural Investment credit
(Dec. 1984 CrS trillion)             n.a.    13.2       8.8     6,3     5.2      5.0      2.2
a/ Maln crops, as In Annex IV, Table 2. These represent over 95% of all Brazilian agriculture.
b/ Maize, wheat, manioc, poatoes, rice, beans.
c/ Credits extended, short- and long-term (see Table 5)
d/ USS14.4 billion egulvalent.
e/ USS6.0 billion equivalent.



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
Table 2 of 10
BRAZ I L
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Areas of Principal Cropsa/ In Brazil, 1970-1985
Crop Year b/
1970     1975     1980     1981      1982    1983      1984     1985
-              -     - ~     ~ -    (million ha)
Maize           9.86    10.85    11.45   11.49    12.60    10.74    12.20    11.89
Soyabeans       1.32     5.82     8.77    8.49      8.20     8.14     9.42    10.14
Rice           4.98      5.31     6.24    6.07      6.02     5.11      5.36     4.76
Edible beans   3.48      4.15     4.64    5.03      5.93     4.07     5.31      5.41
Cotton         4.30      3.88     3.70    3.50      3.64     2.93     3.10      4.19
Wheat           1.90     2.93     3.12    1.92      2.83     1.88      1.74     2.73
Sugar           1.73     1.97     2.61    2.82      3.09     3.45     3.86      3.83
Manloc         2.02      2.04     2.01    2.09      2.13     2.02      1.82     1.88
Coffee          2.40     2.22     2.43    2.55      1.86     2,28     2.45      2.58
Cocoa          0.44      0.45     0.48    0.50      0.52     0.54     0.61      0.64
Oranges        0.20      0.40     0.58    0.58      0.59     0.62     0.63      0.65
Tobacco        0.25      0.25     0.32    0.29      0.32     0.32     0.29      0.29
Peanuts        0.67      0.35     0.31    0.24      0.24     0.21     0.15      0.19
Potatoes       0.21      0.19     0.18    0.17      0.18     0.17     0.17      0.15
Tomatoes       0.05      0.05     0.05    0.05      0.06     0.05     0.05      0.05
Total         33.81    40.86    46.89   45.79    48.21    42.53    47.16    49.38
a/  Representing over 95% of total cropped trea.
b/ Refers to the year in which the harvest took place (i.e., 1984 is the
crop year 1983/84).
Source: 1970-1984 CFP
1985 IBGE



- 42 -
ANNEX IV
Table 3 of 10
BRAZ IL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Output of Principal Cropsa/ In Brazil, 1970-1985
Crop Year b/
1970      1975       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984      1985
___ -_______Di-   C (million tons)  -
Maize                     14.22      16.33     19.94      21.87     22.10      19.34     21.17      21.87
Soybeans                   1.51       9.89     14.89      15.48      12.89     14.53      15.54     18.01
Rice (paddy)               7.55       7.78      9.64       8.64       9.16      8.22       9.02      8.96
Edible beans               2.21       2.28      1.90       2.41      3.10       1.65      2.62       2.82
Cotton (with seed)          1.96      1.75      1%62       1.72       1.97      1.60      2.16       3.44
Wheat                      1.84       1.79      2.74       2.22       1.88      2.19       1.83      2.87
Sugar cane                79.75      91.50    148.70    155.57    186.39    216.70    241.52    250.00
Manloc                    29.46      26.12     23.47      24.80     24.00      21.75     21.28      22.96
Coffee                     1.51       2.54      2.12       3.76       1.85      3.33       2.71      3.46
Cocoa                      0.20       0.28      0.32       0.30      0.35       0.36      0.36       0.42
Oranges c/                15.50      31.57     54.46      57.12     57.94      58.14     66.86      69.77
Tobacco                    0.24       0.29      0.40       0.36       0.42      0.40       0.42      0.41
Peanuts                    0.93       0.44      0.52       0.32      0.32       0.27      0.25       0.34
Potatoes                   1.58       1.65      1.94       1.91      2.15       1.04      2.21       1.93
Tomotoes                   0.76       1.05       1.54      1.44       1.74      1.55       1.79      1.82
a/ Representing over 95% of total cropped area.
b/ Refers to the year In which the harvest took place (i.e., 1984 Is the crop year
1983/84).
c/ Billion fruit.
Source: 1970-1984 CFP
1985 IBGE



BRAZ IL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Agricultural Trade, 1970-1984
1970       1975         1980         1981        1982           1983         1984
Exports (f.o.b.)                  ------------                  (Current USS millions)  ---
Coffee                               978       1,013       2,772        1,760        2,130         2,324        2,850
Cocoa and products                    78        220          694          594          426           552          657
Sugar                                126      1,099        1,287        1,061          559           515          574
Orange Juice                        n.a.       n.o.          339          659          552           609        1,425
Tobacco                               31         142         284          356          463           458          450
Cotton fibre                           4           -           11           -            -           188           42
Kaize                                 81         159            1           -           54             -           24                 p.
Soybeans                             27         685          394          404          123           309          454
Soybean products                     44         465        1,870        2,786        1,973         2,254        2,114
Other                                716      1,127        1,778        1,980        1,571         1,601        1,810
Total agricultural
exports a/                       2,085       4,910        9,430        9,600        7,851         8,810       10,400
Agricultural Imports  /             376         656        1,794        1,455        1,193         1,153        1,100
--------------   percent)  ------------------------------
Agricultural exports as % ot
total Brazilian exports              67.0        57.0         47.0         41.0         39.0          40.0         38.0
a/  Includes wood and leathor
b/  Cereals, foods, fats and olls                                                                                                 o
Source:  CACEX                                                                                                                    0



- 44 -
ANNEX IV
Table 5 of 10
BRAZ IL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Rural Credit Applications 1975-1984
Total Credit                                            Seasonal and         Investment
Extended            - All Rural Credit -           Marketing Credit         Credit
(CrS Trillions a/)        -       (USS Billions Equivalent b/) -
1975             42.4                14.1               9.7                4.4
1976             43.3                14.4                9.7               4.6
1977             38.8                12.9               9.8                3.1
1978             39.3                13.1                9.8               3.3
1979             49.0                16.3               12.2               4.1
1980             46.9                15.6               12.7               2.9
1981             40.7                13.5               11.4               2.1
1982             39.4                13.1               11.4                1.7
1983             29.7                 9.9               8.2                1.7
1984             18.2                 6.0                5.3               0.7
a/    End 1984 cruzeiros
b/    End 1984 exchange rate: USSI  = CrS3,011
Crs 1  = USSO.03321



45 -                               ANNEX IV
Table 6 o' 10
BRAZ IL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Selected Nominal and Real Interest Rates 19B2-19B5
(percent p/a)
1982             1983              1984              1985
Nominal Interest Rates
ORTN 5-year bonds                   nC a/ + 7           mc + 7         mc + 7 to 21       mc + 17
Commercial bank CDts                159                 199            301                323
Rural Credit b/ - short term         45                                mc + 3             mc + 3
1st semester                                         60
2nd semester                                         85 mc + 3
Rural Credit - Investment           No fixed rate                      mc + 3             mc + 3 C/
1st semester                                        mc + 8
2nd semester                                         85 mc + 3
Monetary Correction                  93                 157            215                225
1st semester annualized                              139
2nd semester annualized                              246
Inflation                            95                211             224                221
1st semester annualized                              180
2nd semester annualized                              246
Real Rates of Interest
OrTN bonds                         6                 -12             4 to 18           17
Commercial banks CO's             30                  -4            24                 32
Rural Credit - short term        -26                                 0                  3
1st semester                                     -43
2nd semester                                      -26
Rural Credit - Investment        No fixed rate                       0                  3
1st semester                                      -8
2nd semester                                      -26
a/ mc = monetary correction.
b/ Rural credit refers to offTcial rural credit.
c/ Since early 1985 there has been no restriction on the rate charged on rural Investment
credit, except for certain regions and types of Investment. However, the Bank of Brazil
continued to charge monetary correction + 3% on most of Its Investment credit and, since the
other banks do not have access to long-term funds, this was the preponderant rate until the
monetary reform In February 1986.



- 46 -
ANNEX IV
Table 7 of 10
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Bank of Brazil - Rural Credit Operations for 1984 and 1985
(US$ million equivalent)a/
Seasonal    Commercial    Investment    Total
1984
January - March                    250            49            65           364
April - June                        488          266            96           850
July - September                 1,060           205           147        1,412
October - December                 879            48           108        1,035
Total                          2,677           568           416        3,661
Of which large farms b/ M%)         25            40            24            27
1985
January - March                    225            64            39           328
April - June                        564          823           114         1,501
July - September                 1,349           154           169        1,672
October - December c/            1,100            84            87        1,271
Total                          3,238         1,125           409        4,772
Of which large farms b/ (Z)         38            78            25            45
a/   Using quarterly average exchange rates applied to quarterly credit
totals.
b/   Farms with over US$100,000 per year in gross revenue.
c/ Bank of Brazil estimates to the appraisal mission.



BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Domestic/Border Parity Price Relationships
(1.00 indicates equality)
Edible        Wheat      Wheat
Rice a/   Maize a/  Cotton a/   beans a/   farmers b/  millers c/   Soybeans bl   Coffee b/   Cocoa b/
1975    1.12       1.02        1.02         n.a.         n.a.        nea.          0.79           1.04         0.77
1976    1.01       1.00        1.51         0.90         n.a.       n.a.          0.83           0.80         0.94
1977    0.94       1.18        1.12         0.93         1.50        0.63          0.78           0.63         0.80      1
1978    0.83       0.77        1.17         0.93         1.46       0.49          0.83           0.61         0.80
1979    0.97       0.73        1.10         0.85         1.18        0.30          0.76           0.52         0.73
1980    0.95       0.74        1.54         0.81         1.13       0.18          0.77           0.51         0.74
1981    0.85       0.65        1.16         0.72         0.93        0.44          0.73           0.79         0.78
1982    1,44       1.42        1.42         0.60         1.30       0.59          0.80           n.a.         0.76
Mean    1.01       0.94        1.26         0.82         1.25        0.44          0.79           0.70         0.79
a/ Measured at wholesale level.
b/ Measured at farmgate.
cl Controlled government price for sales to millers compared with CIF parity price at mill.
Source: "Pricing Policy Issues in Agriculture." IBRD, December, 1984.
ODX
o-
0-



- 48 -
ANNEX IV
Table 9 of 10
BRAZ I L
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Ratios of Midseason a/ Prices to Harvest b,
Prices C/ for Maize, Rice, Cotton and Soybeans, 1974-1954
(1.00 Indicates equallty)
Maize         Maize          Rice         Cotton       Cotton        SoytIans
Farmgate     Wholesale      Farmgate      Farmgate     Wholesale      Farmqate
Parana      S. Paulo         RGS          Parana      S. Paulo        Parana
1974      0.97          1.06          1.19          1.04          0.60           1.10
1975      1.21          1.01          1.14          1.22          1.22          0.95
1976      0.93          0.93          0.77          1.05          1.45           1.34
1977      1.01          1.00          0.98          0.69          0.74          0.70
1978      1.10          0.90          1.06          0.74          1.07           0.99
1979      1.32         0.99           1.33          1.02          1.13           1.20
1980      1.81          1.72          0.95          1,20          1.62           1.23
1981      0.81         0.76           n.a.          0.73          1.03          0.93
1982      0.85          0.97          0.78          0.74          1.07           0.87
1983      2.52         2.08           1.16          n.a.          2.16           1.97
1984      1.04          1.02          1.17          n.a.          0.71           0.87
a/ October to December.
b/ March to May.
Cl All prices corrected to a coamon basis (November 1984).
Source: "Pricing Policy Issues In Agriculture." IBRD, December, 1984.



ERAZ IL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
Minimum Prices 1972-1985
Guaranteed Prices Available to Farmers In the Center South
on April 1 a/ of Each Harvest Year, 1972 to 1985
(constant CrS of August 1984 using general price deflator)
Type 6 Cotton
Harvest Year    Irrigated Rice        Maize           with Seed         Soybeans       Black Beans b/
(per 50 kg)       (per 60 kg)      (per 15 kg)      (per 60 kg)    (per 60 kg)
1972             13,836            8,444             n,a.           15,512              n.a.
1973             15,817            9,490            8,066           15,817            29,051
1974             16,858           13,664            7,859           16,400            36,905
1|75             20,325           12,837            8,719           21,394            40,104
1976             17,916           12,112            8,857           18,926            36,020
1977             17,700           11,257            8,044           16,992            45,130
1978             16,587            9,952            9,952           14,290            40,744
1979             15,085            8,952            8,305           12,433            36,315
1980             13,195            7,622            5,562           12,989            33,711
1981             13,644            8,982            3,826           12,507            44,286
1982             13,860           10,184            6,583           13,087            48,930
1983             12,282            8,997            6,192           11,631            46,651
1984             16,914            9,328           10,085           10,936            34,524
1985             21,400           13,000           12,000           20,000            54,200
1986 d/          19,000           11,500           10,600           18,300            48,000
a/  Monetary correction since 1981/82 has been available until February 1 of each year (November
for beans).  In 1984/85 It Is available until April 1, 1985, giving a major boost In the
real value of minimum prices post harvest.
b/  November 1 ot preceeding year. Refers to the first (Irrigated) crop,                                                  o
/  Prices announced August 1984 to be adjusted with full monetary correctlon.
d/ Prices announced August 1985 to be adjusted with full monetary correctlon. o
Source: CFP



- 50 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 12
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
STATEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL POLICY *
ObJectives and Strategy
1.        Following the inauguration of the New Republic in March 1985, the
Government has undertaken an intensive review of its sectoral policies. This
review is embodied in the National Development Plan, which defines a strategy
for growth in each sector of the economy. Agriculture is identified in the
Plan as a key sector in the achievement of the Government's social and
economic goals. In particular, the agricul-tural sector can play a
significant role in promoting economic growth and exports and in promoting a
more equitable distribution of .^.come. It is also a key sector in the task
of bringing public finances under control.
2.        The strategy for restoring sectoral growth involves a major
revision of incentive policies, to allow a more market-oriented allocation of
resources in credit and commodity markets. In the credit markets
(paras. 6-11 below) there will be an immediate reduction in rural credit
subsidies and the introduction of variable interest rates linked to changes
in market rates. In commodity markets (paras. 12 to 18 below), following the
current emergency stabilization program, the Government will introduce a
series of measures to support the growth of private trade and the freer
movement of market prices. To this end, the Government has established five
working groups (para. 12) to recommend actions in the main areas related to
agricultural trade and pricing policy. These are: (a) price stabilization;
(b) management of price risks; (c) financing of agricultural stocks; td)
trade regulation; and (e) market information systems. At the same time, the
Government is examining the possibility of reducing the disincentive to
agricultural producers which is created by the incidence of ICM (tax on gross
value) on agricultural exports.
3.        The strategy for reducing social and regional inequalities depends
heavily on the achievement of renewed sectoral growth. A growing
agricultural sector will be the best guarantee of rising rural employment and
incomes, provision of rural services and reduction of disparities between the
agricultural and industrial regions of the country. In addition, the
Government's strategy involves direct action in the areas of land reform and
public investment in the poorer regions of the country, notably the
North/Northeast. These actions are discussed further in paras. 21-23 below.
4.        The sttategy for reducing the fiscal burden of Government
intervention in agriculture will be implemented over several years. The
first step has already been taken in the announcement of a new credit policy
for agriculture as noted in para. 2 above. Further steps will involve:
*    This statement was transmitted to the Bank under cover of a letter
dated June 5, 1986, signed by the Minister of Planning.



-51 -                       ANNEX V
Page 2 of 12
(a) development of a program to reduce the tbudgetary allocation for subsidies
on wheat production and consumption; (b) a reduction in Government
intervention in agricultural marketing through a reform of the minimum price
policy and the development of commercial financing for agricultural marketing
to complement Federal Marketing Credit (EGF); and (c) a gradual reduction in
the subsidies given to the alcohol program.
5.        The following paragraphs provide greater detail on the proposed
agricultural development strategy under four headings: (a) rural credit
policy; (b) trade and pricing policy; (c) production targets; and (d) social
objectives.
Rural Credit Policy
6.        In the context of its new economic policy announced in February
1986, the Government has the objective of ensuring an adequate supply of
rural credit, especially investment credit, and at the same time maintaining
effectir       ol over public finances.  The chosen strategy is to raise real
interest rstes on official credit to levels which, though below current free
market interest rates, substantially cover the cost of financial resources.
The Government intends to use the official rural credit system to direct
resources in support of:  (a) the production of food crops; (b) small-scale
farmers; (e) land ieform; and (d) irrigation development. As the Brazilian
financial markets become more stable, and more integrated with the interna-
rional economy, the Government intends to continue moving towards a market-
oriented rural credit system. To this end, the Government is, for instance,
exploring alternatives to the mandatory requirements that are still necessary
to ensure the timely availability, at appropriate cost to the farmers, of the
credit amounts required for the country's agricultural development.
7.        The new interest rate structure for official rural credit, approved
by the Monetary Council on May 15, 1986, (Attachment 1, Table 1) comprises a
base rate of 10X for all long- and short-term lending in the Centre South
with reduced rates in the North/Northeast, depending on farm size and type.
The base rate will be adjusted on March 1, 1987, and every six months there-
after, in accordance with changes in the rate on 180-day CD's in the commer-
cial banking system. Interest rates in the North/Nortteast will maintain the
same discounts from the base rate as established in May 1986. The adjust-
ments in the base rate and related rates in the North/Northeast will apply
automatically to long-term credit contracts. Short-term contracts will not
be adjusted, but all new contracts will bear the latest applicable interest
rate.
8.        These interest rates are substantially higher than in the past and,
though below current market interest rates, can be financed from various
sources at a total cost only marginally higher, on the average, than the on-
lending rates themselves. It is proposed to finance credit at these interest
rates by a combination of: (a) compulsory application of interest-free sight
deposits in commercial banks; (b) outstanding rural credit balances in the
Bank of Brazil; (c) Treasury bills (LTN), currently bearing a net-of-tax
interest rate of 1OZ; (d) Government funds financed by international borrow-
ings carrying interest rates of 8% to 9Z denominated in foreign currency; and
(e) direct Government subsidies. Details of the proposed volume of credit
and breakdown of funding sources are given in Attachment 1, Table 2.



- 52 -                     ANNEX V
Page 3 of 12
9.        It is calculated that the shortfall in 1986 between the cost of
funds to the Government and the proposed on-lending rates will be no more
than US$100 million equivalent, compared with US$600 million in 1985. This
shortfall will comprise: (a) on-lending by the Bank of Brazil at less than
10% in the North/Northeast; and (b) the provision of 2% spread to commercial
banks and 4% spread to the Bank of Brazil for on-lending external or domestic
funds passed through the Central Bank for investment credit operations.
10.       Until recently, the cost of subsidizing rural credit was financed
by the conta de movimento - through which the Bank of Brazil had access,
whenever needed, to Central Bank resources -- and by special rural credit
programs of the Central Bank. After the financial reform approved on
January 30, all remaining subsidies for official rural credit, including
those given through the Bank of Brazil and the Central Bank, will have to be
financed through the fiscal budget.
11.       The high administrative cost for rural credit in the Bank of
Brazil is related to the difficulty of maintaining adequate banking services
in remote rural areas and among small farmers. In 1986, this cost will be
met through: (a) cost-free application of outstanding rural credit balances
at an average on-lending rate of 9.2%; (b) 4% spread on applications of new
money after March 1, 1986; and (c) direct subventions from the Treasury. A
priority in financial sector reform will be to define more clearly the need
for these services and an appropriate cost for them, with the object of
bringing them under strict budgetary control.
Trade and Pricing Policy
12.       The recent introduction of an emergency price freeze has caused the
Government to postpone its reform of agricultural trade and pricing policy.
Nevertheless, the basic objectives remain unchanged and will be implemented
once the current price freeze is relaxed. These objectives are: (a) to
reduce Government intervention in external trade; (b) to provide effective
safeguards to domestic markets against extreme price fluctuations; (c) to
encourage the development of private trade and commercial stock financing;
and (d) to improve market information. The achievement of these objectives
is extremely complex and requires careful preparation. This preparation is
now under way in the five working groups, whose Terms of Reference
(Attachment 2) have been approved by the Government.
13.       In the past, concern for inflation has lain at the heart of
Government involvement in agricultural trade. This concern was heightened by
the realization that, in a fully indexed economy, external price shocks were
translated into a permanent increase in the rate of inflation. With the
ending of indexation and the restoration of financial stability, it will be
possible to eliminate arbitrary Governmeat intervention in trade and to rely
increasingly on the development of commercial risk management and arbitrage
to provide market stability. The intervention of the Government in
agricultural markets will in future be predictable and limited to cases of
extreme short-term price fluctuations. In these cases, the implementation of
an effective minimum price policy will protect producers, and a new system of
market safeguards will protect domestic consumers. Low income consumers
would also be protected by targetted food subsidy programs currently being
developed by the Government.



- 53 -                      ANNEX V
Page 4 of 12
14.       The implementation of the proposed system of safeguards requires
the definition of: (a) the appropriate upper price limits, related to
international price trends; and (b) workable means of intervention in the
event of prices moving outside the limits. The first working group
(Attachment 2, paras. 2-6) is working on these definitions for soybeans,
soybean products, maize, cotton and rice. The main principles are that the
limits should be high enough to ensure only infrequent interventions, and
that interventions, wher they occur, should be through market actions (e.g.,
border taxes, accughulatLon or disposal of Government stocks) rather than
administrative actions, as in the past. To complement this objective, the
fourth working group (Attachment 2, paras. 15-17) is working towards the
simplification of current trade regulations and procedures.
15.       The proper management of marketing risks is a vital component of
pricing policy. A basic requirement in this area is access by traders,
producers and processors to futures markets. This is important if trading
risks are to be minimized, both from the national and private points of
view. The second working group (Attachment 2, paras. 7-11) is examining the
principal factors currently limiting access to futures markets (foreign
exchange restrictions on overseas futures trading and taxation of domestic
futures trading). The group will make recommendations for increasing access
to futures markets, domestic and foreign, and also for developing an
integrated local cash market.
16.       With the proposed changes in credit policy and the restriction of
Government resources for financing agricultural credit, there is an urgent
need to develop private instruments for financing agricultural storage and
marketing. These would act as a complement to Government-sponsored Federal
Marketing Credit (EGF), on which markets have relied very heavily in the
past. The third working group (Attachment 2, paras. 12-14) is investigating
the mechanisms for creating these instruments. In particular, the group is
investigating the creation of a system of internationally acceptable storage
warrants and the development of a market in bankers' acceptances (mortgage on
bonded commodities) based on these warrants. Since traded agricultural
commodities are relatively homogeneous and, in a free market, would be hedged
using dollar-priced futures contracts, they could act as an attractive
collateral for dollar-based financing, even when destined for domestic
markets. The willingness of traders and cooperatives to hold stocks of
agricultural commodities (a crucial element in creating stable domestic
markets) depends on stock holders having access to finance on terms
comparable to those available on export markets.
17.       The Government also wishes to explore the possibility of developing
the market for commercial dollar-denominated credits for financing stocks
which are hedged on futures markets. To this end, the Government is seeking
Bank assistance in establishing a small fund (PROSTOCK) which will complement
the existing Bank-financed PROEXPORT line of credit, but which will be
available to stockholders even if they do not hold firm export contracts.
The only requirement would be that the commodities were properly hedged. The
commercial risk would be taken by the participating banks and the foreign
exchange risks by the final borrower.
18.       A vital part of an effective marketing system is information.  The
fifth working group (Attachment 2, paras. 19-20) is studying ways of



- 54 -                      ANNEX V
Page 5 of 12
improving information in two key areas:  (a) crop forecasting, which has been
unreliable in the past; and (b) a national stock information system, to
provide both Government and private traders with reliable on-line information
on national and regional stock positions.
Production Targets
19.       The target increase in the cultivated area by 1989 is 4.5 million
hectares. The priority of the Government for expanding the cropped area is
irrigation. Targets have been set for one million hectares of new irrigation
in the Northeast (400,000 hectares public and 600,000 hectares private) and
for 600,000 hectares of private irrigation (PROVARZEAS) in the rest of the
country by 1990. In order to accomplish these targets, private and public
funds equivalent to US$2.25 billion and US$3 billion respectively will be
required. In addition, a major investment in rural electrification is
planned to help prevent the population exodus from rural areas and to
facilitate new irrigation schemes. The priority program for rural electri-
fication is contained in the Third National Plan for Rural Electrification,
which aims to supply electricity to 34,500 farms between 1986 and 1989,
mostly in the Northeast and the Center West.
20.       In addition to expanding the cropped area, the National Development
Plan calls for an increase in farm productivity. This will be achieved
through investments in research, technical assistance, rural education and
the introduction of new production systems. Particular emphasis will be
placed on the dissemination of improved varieties, better soil and water
management and the use of modern chemicals and machinery. The National
Development Plan calls for an increase in research projects nationwide from
approximately 3,500 at present to 4,600 by 1989. The main emphasis of
research will be: (a) basic food crops; (b) stable long-term agricultural
systems; (c) biotechnology and soil microbiology; (d) small farm production
systems; and (e) alternative energy.
Social and Regional Objectives
21.       The social and regional objective of the Government's agricultural
policy is to raise the incomes of small farmers and deprived regions relative
to other farmer groups and regions. The achievement of a sustained growth in
agriculture is the key to achieving this objective. The proposed reduction
in credit subsidies, wheat and alcohol subsidies, and the eventual freeing of
commodity markets should also help to redress regional and social imbalances,
since most subsidies in the past have accrued to the larger,
capital-intensive enterprises, while trade policies have frequently
discriminated against basic food crops, on which small farmers are most
dependent for their incomes. Direct actions by the Government will consist
of: (a) land reform; (b) direct public investment in irrigation in the
Northeast; and (c) the direction of official rural credit towards small
farmers, as noted above in para. 6.
22.       Land reform is a major commitment of the Government.  Its
objectives are: (a) to increase the economic opportunities for marginal
producers and the landless; (b) to expand access to productive natural
resources; and (c) to allow small producers access to improved agricultural
technology. The principal target of the National Agrarian Reform Plan is to



- 55 -                      ANNEX V
Page 6 of 12
settle 1.4 million rural families in four years, which will affect 40 million
hectares of land and will constitute Phase I of a 15-year program. In
addition to land, the program seeks to ensure improved access for small
farmers to credit, technical assistance, storage, education, health and
housing facilities.
23.       Public sector investment in agriculture will be heavily
concentrated on irrigation development in the Northeast. Over the period
1986 to 1990, the public sector will invest US$3 billion equivalent in
irrigation development for 400,000 hectares in the Northeast, as described in
para. 19 above. Part of these investments will be undertaken by the
Government, and the rest by private farmers, with the support of the official
rural credit program. The other main category of public investments in
agriculture consists of rural development projects in the Northeast Region.
Attachments 1 and 2.



- 56 -
ANNEX V
Page 7 of 12
ATTACHMENT 1
OFFICIAL AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INTEREST RATES
VOLUMES OF CREDIT AND SOURCES OF FINANCING
1.         A new interest rate structure for official rural credit was
approved by the Monetary Council on May 15, 1986. The following tables show,
respectively, the new interest rate structure, and the expected flow of rural
credit from various sources.
Tahle 1
Interst Rats for Official Rural Credit, 1986
Nlortbemast                         Centre Soth
E;sm Si  al     PApp 0/   PIRDIE cf   A ll Crp/    Othe                AU Pogrm
Sorv-ten Credit e/f/
Srall            3.0 g/      na.              8.0            3.0          10.0
MedHLs           na.         n a.             8.0            6.0          10.0
Ln               ra.         n.a.              8.0           8.0          10.0
Investnmt credit h,
Smil             3.0 g/      7.0              8.0            3.0          10.0
Mdium            -           7.0               8.0           6.0          10.0
Lar      ~       -           7.0               8.0           8.0          10.0
a/ As estbUsb1d in the Rural Credit Mianual.
i SpedI  mll-fmer prqprn.
C/ Irdgatim progran for the Northeast.
dt Coffee, cocos, susar cane, rubber.
Fixed iterest for the tem of each cntrct. Rates m r  atracts adJusted as In
investmen credit (see nte b/).
f/ For sk rt-ten aktizg credit ates are 1(%, for al fn and regica, for raw
p    r&ft and 15% for proased prducts.
g/ For PAPP fariirs and mini farmers in the North/Northeat, the rate i1d  be usintanemd
at 30Z oE the aplcabl  rate for the Centre/Scrt.-
h/ Medium- and 3og-term citracts. Intemst rate adjusted euy six moaut  In ardxie
with variation In asbrt-term Treasury bill rate, or in aordmre -ith ote amiurt
indicators ageeable to the Bark.



Proposed Volum and Sources of Rural Credit, 1986
Bark of Brazil            C=marcial Barks                  Total           Ecuivst
(Cz$ billill)              (Cz$ bills)e~               (Cz$ bJLUo)       (US$     s
C0Mpulory a/      Other Resources
Applicatias,
Sight Deposits
Sem   a/i keiting b/      33.9              17.4                1.3              52.6              3.8
investmnt
Outst   g  /            5.8               2.4                0.7               8.9               0.6
Rollover d/             4.4               2,0                -                 6.4              0.5                    I
New  esolr  s           8.3               3.1                2.7              14.1               1.0                   s
Other                      1.8               -                  3.4               5.2              0.4
Total              54,2              24.9                8.1              87.2               6.3
a/ Copulsory application of sight deposits w,ld be 10X for smll bar*, 20Z for mediun bezs ad4 30% for lage
bw.
b/ To be financed by rooUug aer existfrg balanc of short-term credit.
c/ Outstardirg balancs Iot mturing.
d/ Re     cation of outurlrg  han.
Expected Oxistion od w8suroes:                                                                               b   ' Is
Goveinnt fwb fieanosd bylr                                                    ,          (I L 
extermal aources              $ 5.4 bilUion
Treamsy bills                   Cz$ 5.6 billion
OCaxilsory applications         c$ 3.1 bill.ion



- 58 -
ANNEX V
Page 9 of 12
ATTACHMENT 2
COMPOSITION AND OBJECTIVES OF THE COMMERCIAL POLICY WORKING GROUPS
1.        Five working groups have been set up to produce recommendations for
the reform of trade and pricing policy. They are concerned with the
following policy areas: (a) price stabilization (market safeguards and
minimum prices); (b) risk management (futures and cash market development);
tc) storage financing (storage warrants and bankers' acceptances); (d)
simplification of trade regulations and procedures; and (e) market
information systems. The Government and the Bank have already agreed on the
need for reform in each of these policy areas. The objective of each group
therefore is to work out practical proposals for implementation, identifying
a phased program of action.
Working Group 1: Price Stabilization (Market Safeguards and Minimum Prices)
2.        The object of this working group is to devise a way of eliminating
arbitrary Government intervention in the marketing of soybeans, soybean
products, rice, cotton and maize.
3.        The working group will reconsider the proposals put forward in 1984
by a committee in CFP, which was asked to define market safeguards under
which the Government would intervene to protect consumers from excessive
upward price movements and producers from excessive short-term downside
risks.
4.        In making its recommendations on minimum prices and market
safeguards the working group will focus on a system of government
intervention, consistent with the elimination of extreme short-term price
risks. Upper limits for fully traded commodities commodities (e.g.,
soybeans, soybean products, cotton and maize) might be related to external
price indicators. In the case of rice, the upper limit intervention point
might be set in relation to domestic prices only.
5.        In all cases, domestic and export crops, the working group will
establish clear guidelines on the management and disposal of Government
stocks which may from time to time be acquired through the minimum price
program. The group will also make proposals on the roles of institutions
such as CFP, SEAP (Secretaria de Abastecimento e Precos) and CACEX in the
implementation of the minimum price and market safeguards scheme.
6.        The working group will aim at establishing a workable system before
June 1986, prior to the setting of minimum prices for the 1986/87 crop
season. The time-phased action program will aim for the setting of minimum
prices in August 1986 in accordance with the new scheme and establishment of
open markets with appropriate safeguards for 1986/87 and subsequent crop
seasons.



- 59 -                        ANNEX V
Page 10 of 12
Working Group 2: Risk Management, Futures and Cash Market Development
7.        The objective of this working group is to recommend a phased
program for reducing market risks by: (a) developing an integrated local
cash market; (b) developing a domestic futures market; and (c) increasing
access to overseas futures markets.
8.        The development of an integrated local cash market is a basic need
for more efficient crop marketing in Brazil. This requires the pooling of
resources and information by commoditv exchanges, government agencies and
trading companies. The working group will consider proposals to this end
which have already been put forward by the leading commodity exchanges.
9.        The working group will review the principal factors currently
limiting access to futures markets, which are:
(a) Foreign Exchange Restrictions on Overseas Futures Trading. Ways of
restoring more open access to international futures markets will
be explored. One possibility would be to make foreign exchange
available for hedging only to registered commission houses
operating in Brazil. The commission houses themselves would then
help the Central Bank to police the system, which would be based on
detailed ex post audits and significant penalties.
(b) Taxation of Domestic Futures Trading. The working group will
consider an appropriate tax adjustment to make possible the
development of a domestic futures market for agricultural
commodities. Under existing regulations, profits derived from
domestic futures trading are taxed, while profits from external
trading are not. A continuation of this advantage to external
trading would virtually preclude the development of a domestic
futures market.
(c) Foreign Exchange and Financial Futures. The working group will
consider the introduction of a liquid futures market in foreign
exchange (to be settled in local currency) to complement the recent
introduction of an interest rate futures contract. Effective
financial futures markets are essential to the development of a
commodity futures market. Financial risks are, in today's
environment, as big a factor in determining price volatility and
stockholding patterns as are basic supply and demand factors.
Similarly, the exchange rate looms large in trading decisions and
affects stockholding patterns because dollar-priced commodities,
such as soybeans are frequently used to hedge foreign exchange
risks.
10.       The working group will monitor a number of studies and technical
assistance projects to be financed from Part C of Loan 2348-BR, as follows:
(a) a feasibility study and costing for an integrated local cash market, to
be carried out by the Sao Paulo Commodities Exchange; (b) a design study for
domestic futures trading, contract specifications, clearing arrangements and
floor design; and (c) a training course in Brazil on futures trading and



- 6D                         ANNEX V
Page 11 of 12
hedging techniques for staff members of CACEX, CFP, Central Bank and the
Ministries of Finance and Agriculture.
11.       The working group will make its recommendations by July 1986.
Working Group 3: Crop Finance (Storage Warrants and Bankers' Acceptances)
12.       The objective of this working group is to develop proposals for the
creation of a system of storage warrants for agricultural commodities and to
examine the next steps towards the development of a market in bankers'
acceptances for discounting the storage warrants:
(a) Storage Warrants. The key to the development of storage warrants
is that they should be credible to buyers and lenders in terms of
quality and quantity. Outside inspection is therefore
indispensable, as is the involvement of some clearinghouse
mechanism set up by an independent authority (such as the Bolsa de
Mercadorias de Sao Paulo), along with performance bonds covering
the warehousing. In order to produce a workable set of proposals,
it will be essential for the working group to obtain expert advice
on inspection and insurance from a reputable firm engaged
internationally in this field. Several such firms are established
in Brazil.
(b) Bankers Acceptances. The key to developing a bankers' acceptance
market is to establish a set of regulations in the Central Bank
compatible with those governing the international acceptance
markets (based in New York and regulated by the NY Federal
Reserve). In order to accomplish this, it will be essential to
engage expert legal advice and also to receive advice from the
New York Federal Reserve on the international aspects of the new
regulations.
13.       Studies and technical assistance to be financed Part C of Loan
2348-BR and to be monitored by this working group are: (a) a feasibility
study and costing of an inspection and clearing house for storage warrants;
(b) legal advice to BACEN on drafting regulations governing bankers'
acceptances; and (c) a visit by a lawyer from the New York Federal Reserve to
review the proposed regulations on bankers' acceptances.
14.       This working group will make its recommendations by July 1986.
Working Group 4: Simplification of Trade Regulations and Procedures
15.       This working group will be headed by CACEX and its objective will
be to propose changes in the regulations governing agricultural trade and in
the internal proceedures of CACEX relating to the registration of
agricultural trading contracts.



-61 -                         ANNEX V
Page 12 of 12
16.       In recent months, CACEX has already started the process of
simplifying the mass of existing (and often conflicting) trade regulations.
The working group will consolidate this work. Of equal importance is a
streamlining of the system of prior registration of export contracts.  To
this end, a system of on-line communications and data retrieval is required
in CACEX to operate for agricultural commodities. This would link the local
agencies to the central administration as well as to the Central Bank's own
information system (on foreign exchange and hedging). This would greatly
simplify administration, speeding up the registration process and increasing
the ability of decision-makers to monitor the flow of exports and imports.
17.       The working group will manage a feasibility study and costing of
the on-line computer link between CACEX agencies, CACEX headquarters and the
Central Bank foreign exchange department, to be financed from Part C of Loan
2348-BR.
18.       The working group will make its recommendations in July 1986.
Working Group 5:  Market Information Systems
19.       This working group will be led by IBGE and will coordinate closely
with CFP, producers associations, cooperatives, trading companies and
commodity exchanges. Its objectives will be:
(a) Crop Forecasting. The working group will consolidate work-already
being carried out by IBGE and will manage a feasibility study for
an improved crop forecasting sytem, to be financed from Part C of
Loan 2348-BR. Recommendations may involve both capital investments
and organizational changes in responsible institutions.
(b) National Stock Information System. The working group will gather
information and proposals from all major agricultural stock
holders, private and public, and will produce a consolidated
proposal for investment and operating rules for a national and
regional stock information system.  Proposals to this end already
exist in the leading commodity exchanges.
20.       The working group will make its recommendations in June 1986.



-62 -                       ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL POLICY STUDIES
1.        Under Part C of Loan 2348-BR a sum of US$2.24 million was provided
to finance a program of policy studies and technical assistance. After
initial problems relating to release of local funds to initiate consultants'
contracts, the program got under way in April 1984, with the signing of a
contract with the Institute for Economic Research in the University of
Sao Paulo to provide technical coordination and supervision of the study
program. In March 1985 supervision was transferred to the office of
IPEA/IPLAN in Brasilia and is now carried out by a steering committee which
includes representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, Planning and
Finance. The following paragraphs set out the work of the study program
under three headings: (a) studies already completed; (b) studies currently
in progress or under negotiation; and (c) special studies being planned, on
IBRD recommendation, as necessary for progress of the credit and marketing
reform project.
Completed Studies
2.        Studies already delivered to IPEA/IPLAN and available to the Bank
are as foflows:
(a) Agricultural Tax Reform. This study evaluates the importance of
ICM (value added tax) and land tax in state and municipal
revenues. The impact of these taxes on farm incomes is evaluated,
as are the implications of replacing these two forms of taxation
with a rural income tax.
(b) Agricultural Marketing. This study examines marketing margins in
beef, rice, maize and tomatoes in three states in Southern Brazil.
It presents a critical examination of the available data and seeks
to account for marketing margins in terms of real costs and risks.
(c) Agricultural Research and Technology. This study examines the
process of decision making and allocation of resources within the
agricultural research establishment.
(d) Policy-making Process. This study reviews the institutional
arrangements for making and implementing agricultural policy in
Brazil.
(e) Colonization. This study examines the economic and social costs of
frontier settlement, with emphasis on the settlements sponsored by
INCRA (the Land Settlement Institute). An evaluation of direct
economic benefits from settlement schemes is also made.



- 63 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
(f) Energy in Agriculture. This study uses linear programming
techniques to examine the impact of energy projects on the use and
allocation of land and other resources. This is of particular
interest since it is now becoming widely recognized that the
development of energy-based agriculture is proceeding at the
expense of other forms of agricultural production.
(g) Crop Grading and Classification. The study provides a general
review of che system of crop grading by the Ministry of Agriculture
and of its adequacy as a basis for the development of a system of
storage warrants under the auspices of private insurance
companies. Special topics of interest are classification and
insurance problems; legal aspects; information systems; and the
role of the commodity exchanges.
(h) Public Investment in Agriculture. This study brings together data
on public investment and other expenditures at Federal and State
levels. It identifies the main channels of investment and the
institutional and other constraints on the public investment
program.
(i) Farm Models. This is a micro-economic analysis of carefully chosen
farm types, based on field work in Southern Brazil. It examines
the cash flow problems faced by farmers in the 1984/85 cropping
season.
(j) Pricing Policy Beyond 1984/85. Based on simulations already
carried out during the preparation of the present project, the
study recommends a basis for a long-term trade-based price
stabilization scheme. This involves free trade within upper and
lower (minimum price) limits, where the limits are adjusted
automatically in response to movements in the underlying trends in
international prices. The study recommends a formula for
establishing these links to the international market and makes
recommendations on the means of implementing the formula, and on
its institutional implications.
Studies Currently in Progress or under Negotiation
3.        The following studies are currently being carried out or are under
negotiation:
(a) Migration to the Agricultural Frontier. This studies patterns of
migration and settlement in the Amazon Region.
(b) Multi-Market Model for Agricultural Price Policy Formulation. This
model will enable policy makers to interpret the impact of relative
price changes on regional and national production patterns.
(c) Agricultural Policy in the last 20 Years. A broad review of the
main aspects and impact of agricultural policy.



-64 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
(d)  Irrigation Sub-Sector.  A series of studies related to irrigation
potential arising from the new government's aim for a major
expansion in both private and public irrigation investment.
(e) Systems of Rural Financing. A series of studies covering the rural
credit markets with emphasis on ways of mobilizing resources for
small farmers.
(f) Agrarian Policy in the Northeast. This study will carry out
in-depth surveys of the rural economy in the Northeast to examine
the impact of pricing and credit policy on family incomes and land
tenure.
(g) Agrarian Reform. This study will trace the history of land reform
in Brazil and assess the options available for the present
government.
(h) Food Prices in Urban Areas. This study will evaluate the role of
supermarkets in the formation of urban food prices.
Special Studies Related to the Credit and Marketing Reform Project
4.        In support of the policy conditions of the loan (Annex III) a
series of studies and technical assistance is currently under negotiation.
These contracts would be completed before the second tranche review of the
proposed loan. They are:
(a) a feasibility study (design and costing) of an on-line computer
link between CACEX agencies, CACEX headquarters and the Central
Bank foreign exchange department.
(b) a feasibility study via the Sao Paulo commodities exchange of an
integrated system of local cash markets.
(c) a training course in Brazil on futures trading and hedging
techniques for staff members of CACEX, CFP, Central Bank and the
Finance Ministry (foreign consultant).
(d) a design study for domestic futures trading, contract
specification, clearing arrangements and floor design (foreign
consultant).
(e) a feasibility study and costing for an inspection and clearing
house for stock warrants.
(f) legal advice to the Central Bank on drafting regulations
governing bankers' acceptances.
(g) a visit by a lawyer from the New York Federal Reserve to review
the proposed new regulations on bankers' acceptances.



- 65 -
ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
(h) a feasibility study for improving crop forecasting and s.ock
information systems.
(i) a visit by a USDA expert to review the above feasibility study on
crop forecasting.






