Documxt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 10456
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
(LOAN 2727-BR)
MARCH 27, 1992
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 10456-BR Type: (PCR)
DONALDSON / X31680 / T9 032/ (EDDR
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit         s    Cruzeiro (Cr$)11
Cr$1.00    =  NCzS1.00
US$1.00    =  Cr$228.05Y
Cr$1.00    =  US$0.00442/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Brazil    =   January 1 to December 31
Project    =    January 1 to December 31
INFLATION. MONETARY CORRECTION AND EXCHANGE RATES. 1985-90
(%)fI
IGP-Dlw                 ORTN/OTNIBTNIBTNF'              EXCHANGE RATE
1985               235.1                         219.4                         231.2
1986                65.0                          50.7                          46.2
1987               415.8                         391.5                         365.4
1988              1037.6                         816.0                         889.5
1989              1782.9                         995.2v                       1300.3
1990              1476.6                        1139.3                        1568.9
Source: 1985-1989 data - Conjunctura Economic; 1990 -
f'   % change between December of the previous year and December of the current year.
E/   General Price Index, Domestic Supply
Official basis for monetary correction - Readjustable National Treasury Obligations (ORTN), through February
1986; National Treasury Obligations (OTN) March 1986-January 1989; National Treasury Bonds (BTN),
February 1 989-January 1991; Daily Adjusted National Treasury Bond (BTNF), July 1 989-January 1991
di   % change betwien February 1989 and December 1989.
i/ The cruzeiro was reintroduced on March 15, 1990, replacing the new cruzado
(NCz$) at a one-to-one ratio. The NCz$, which replaced and was equal to 1,000
units of the old cruzado (Cz$), was Brazil's currency from January 16, 1989
until March 14, 1990.
2/ March 13, 1991



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dltector-Ceowal
OpwatbW Evalkatkon
March 27, 1992
MEMORANDUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTS    Project Completi'n Report on Brazil - Credit and
Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Peport on Brazil - Credit and Marketing Reform Project (Loan 2727-BR)"
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II
prepared by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYHS
AGF            Aquislcoes do Governo Federal
Federal Goverment Acquisitions (under the Minimum Price Program)
NH & I         Dols& Wercantil e de Futuros
Mercantile and Futures Exchange
NSHP           Doi*s  de Mercadorlas de Sao Paulo
Sao Paulo Commodity Exchange
BTNP           Bonus do Tesouro Nacional Flical
Daily Adjusted National Treasury Bond
CACZX*         Carteira do Comercio Exterior
Foreign Trade Portfolio (Bank of Brazil)
CEPAGRO        Co6issao Especial de Planejamento, Controle e Avaliacao das
Estatisticas Agropecuarias
Special Commission for Planning, Control and Evaluation of
Agricultural Statistics
CFP*           Commissao Financiamento de Producao
Commission for Production Financing
CIBRAZEHM      Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem
Brazilian Storage Company
cm             Conselho Monetario Nacional
National Monetary Council
CNA            Companhia Nacional de Abastecimiento
National Supply Company (Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning)
COMBL*         Companhia Brasileira de Alimentos
Brazilian Food Company
CONCEX         Conselho Nacional de Comercio Externo
National Council for External Commerce
DAP            Departamento de Abastecimiento e Precos
Department of Supply and Prices (Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning)
DECEX          Departamento do Comercio Exterior
Department of External Trade (Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning)
DERUR*         Departamento de Creditu Rural
Department of Rural Credit (Central Bank of Brazil
EGF            Emprestimo do Governo Federal
Federal Government Loans (Official Marketing Credit)
ERP            gffective Rates of Protection
GATT           General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
IAA*           Inastituto de Acucar e do Alcool
Institute of Sugar and Alcohol
IBC*           Instituto Brasileiro do Cafe
Brazilian Coffee Institute
*    Extinct
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IDOl           Inatituto Brasileiro de Geografia a Estatistica
Brasilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
IOX            Impoeto Sobre Ope.rcoen Relativas e Circulacao de Hercadorias
Tax on the Circulation of Goods
IPC            Indicador do Precos Consumidor
Consumer Price Index
MAR&            Ministerio de Agriculture e Reforma Agraria
Ministry of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform
MIMNC          Ministerlo da Economic, Financiamento e Planejamento
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
NRP            Nominal Rates of Protection
PoPK           Programa de Garantia de Precos Minimos
Minimum P. tce Program
SEAE*          Secretaria Especial de Assuntos Economicos
Special Secretariat for Economic Affairs (Ministry of Finance)
SEAP*          Secretaria de Abastecimento e Precos
Secretariat of Supply and Prices (Ministry of Finance)
SEPE           Secretaria Especial de Politica Economia
Special Secretariat for Economic Policy (Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Planning
SEPLAN*        Secretaria Nacional de Planejamento
National Planning Secretariat
SUNAB*         Superintendencia Nacional de Abastecimiento
National Superintendency of Supply
TR             Taxa Referencial
Reference Rate
*    Fxtinct



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
CREDIT AND MARKETING REPORM PROJECT
(,LOAN 2727-BR)
Table of Contents
P&Ex No.
PREFACE             . .     . .    . .    ... ....... ......................i
EVALUATION SUMHARY    ............. ..... .. i ll
PART I.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Project Identity             . .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
B.  Background    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  1
Overall Economic Background  . . . . . . . . .    1
Agricu'.ural Sector  .. . . . . .o. . . . . .     2
Project 0-igin and Justification .  . .  . .     4
C.  Project Objectivss and Description  . . . . . . . .    4
Project  Ob- -tives  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  4
Policy Con..  - . . . . .                        4
Disbursement Mechanisms  .......... .            6
Institutional Arrangements . . . . . . . . . .   7
D.  Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7
First Tranche  .... . .....         .            7
Second Tranche . . . . . . . .........           7
PROSTOCK   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  7
Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . .   8
E.  Project Results . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
Rural Credit  . . . . . . . .           . .      9
Trade Liberalization and Agricultural Price
Stabilization  ................                  10
Management of Price Risks  . . . . . . . . . .   12
Commercial Stock Financing (PROSTOCK)  . . . .   12
Simplification of Trade Regulations  . . . . .   12
Market Information Systems . . . . . . . . . .   13
Wheat Subsidy  ....... . ....                    13
Technical Assistance Component . . . . . . . .   13
F.  Project Sustainability  *.............                14
G.  Bank Performance/Borrower Performance
Project Relationship  . .. . . . ..  .. .   . .. .   15
H.  Conclusions and Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . .   15
PART 11.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Comments on Part I  . . . . . . .   .    9,   . .     19
B.  Evaluation of Agricultural Sector Reforms . . . . .   20
Summary and Evaluation of Reform Proposals . .  20
Market Liberalization and Safeguards . . . . .   21



Foreign Trade Regulations  . . . . . . . . . .       22
Crop and Stock Data  .... .                          23
Putures Markets      a .     ...                     24
Warrants and Storage .g....          ..              25
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table I  Related Bank Loans   ....27
Table 2   Planned, Revised and Actual Dates of
Project Timetable  .....28
Table 3   Cumulative, Estimated and
Actual Disbursementments                   .         28
Table 4   Use of Staff Resources   .        .      .           28
Table 5   Mission Data by Project Stage               e *      29
Table 6   Status of Covenants        .   .  .  .               30
Table 7   Total and Agricultural Gross Domestr.c
Product: 1980-90 . . . o . . . . . .  .  . . *       31
Table 8   Index of Area, Production and Yield for Major
A-ricultural Commodities: 1980; 1985-90              32
Table 9   Real Changes in the Volume of Rural
CreCtt: 1980-1990      . . . . .      . . . . .      33
Table 10  Rurai Credit by Purpose and Source of                             i
Funds: 1987-1990 . . . . o . . . . * . * . . .       34
Table 11 Average Nominal Rates of Protection of
Selected Agricultural Products at Official
Exchange Rates: 1978-90   ...........                35
Table 12 Average Nominal Rates of Protection of
Selected Agricultural Products at Shadow
Exchange Rates: 1978-90    ... ..       ....         36
Table 13 Average Effective Rates of Protection of
Selected Agricultural Products at Official
Exchange Rates: 1978-90   .9.999.9..                 37
Table 14 Average Effective Rates of Protection of
Selected Agricultural Products at Shadow
Exchange Rates: 1978-90  * . . . . . . . . . *       38
Table 15  Production, Imports and Exports of Cotton,
Rice, Maize and Soybeans: 1985-1990  . . . . .       39
ANNr 1   List of the Studies Contracted Under Loan 2727-ER,
Part C (Technical Assistance)  .     .    ...... . 9           41
ANNEX 2    Summary of Selected Studieb Completed Under
Loan 2727-BR, Part C            ;                                    43
ANNEX 3    Policy Areas for Studies and Training Under
Loan 2727-BR, Part C (Technical Assistance)  . . . . . .       47



PROJECT COMPLETON WREPOR
AU21L
CRED2 AND MARKETING REFORM PROJECT
(,;Q=N 2222-Bit)
PRBFECu
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Credit and Marketing
Reform Project in Brazil, for which Loan 2727-BR in the amount of US$500
million was approved on June 26, 1986. Th. loan was the first, and to date,
the only Bank sector adjustment loan for agriculture in Brazil. The original
closing date of the loan of June 30, 1989, has been extended four times to
June 30, 1993, in order to provide additional time for completing the
technical assistance component (Part C), which was allocated US$25 million
under the loan. Of this allocation to Part C, an amount of US$5 million has
been cancelled. As of September 30, 1991, the undisbursed balance of the loan
was US$15 million.
This PCR consists of an Evaluation Summary and Parts I and III prepared
by the Agriculture OperatiLns Division of the Latin America and the Caribbean
Country Department I. Part II was prepared by the Ministry of Economy,
Finance and Planning.
The PCR Is based mainly on a desk review of Bank reports and documents
(including the President's Memorandum, Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
economic and sector reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
Government and internal Bank memoranda) and project evaluation reports
prepared directly or commissioned by the Government.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BR^ZIL
CREDIT MND MARKETING REFORM PRQJECT
(LOAN 2727-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Obiectives.  The main objectives of the project were to (a) support
the process of making the rural credit system more market oriented and of
reducing rural credit subsidies, and (b) bring about a reform in trade and
pricing policy for key agricultural commodities (rice, maize, beans, cotton
and soy products). The first objective was to be achieved, initially, by
raising interest rates on official rural credit to levels which, though below
market interest rates, would substantially cover funding costs, and
subsequently, by adjusting official interest rates in line with changes in
market interest rates. The second objective was to be met by reducing
Government intervention in the external trade in agricultural commodities;
providing consumers and producers with effective safeguards against extreme
price fluctuations; increasing market-based opportunities for risk management
through the development of domestic futures markets and expanded access to
domestic and foreign futures markets; expanding commercial financing of
agricultural stocks through a dollar-denominated line of credit for holders of
hedged commodities (PROSTOCK) and a system of storage warrants and associated
bankers' acceptances; simplifying trade regulations; improving market
information systemsl and reducing the wheat subsidy.
2.        Originally, the Bank loan in support of the project was to be
disbursed in two tranches of US$300 million and US$200 million. The entire
first tranche and US$100 million of the second tranche were to be disbursed
against general imports (Part A of the project). US$75 million of the second
tranche was to be used to set up PROSTOCK (Part B). The balance of US$25
million was to be used to finance consultants, training and equipment (Part
C).
3.        Proiect Imolementation.  The loan was released in two tranches, the
first (US$300 million) in September 1986, and the second (US$175 million) in
November 1988. The allocation of US$25 million for the technical assistance
component (Part C), originally part of the second tranche, was made available
for disbursement earlier than the second tranche release through an amendment
of the Loan Agreement in November 1987. Also, the Loan Agreement was amended
in December 1988 to change PROSTOCK from a credit line into a discount
facility to provide liquidity for a secondary market in bankers' acceptances.
The amount earmarked for PROSTOCK under the loan (US$75 million) was re-
allocated to finance general imports, and released as part of the second
tranche. An equivalent amount in local currency was contributed by the
Government to set up PROSTOCK.



- iv -
4.        The delay between releasas of the firet and second tranches is
partly attributablo to the design of the project. The specific policy
conditions for second tranche release were fulli defined only in April 1987
after the Government working groups organized urder the project had finalized
their recommendations and discussed them with the Bank. Most of the delay in
second tranche release, however, reflected the difficulties of carrying out an
adjustment program in a highly unstable macroeconomic environment. Between
loan approval in June 1986 and second tranche release, Brazil went through two
unsuccessful stabilization programs involving price freezes and trade controls
which delayed compliance with the trade liberalization conditions of the
second tranche. The lack of continuity in the Government coordinating team
reoponsible for managing the adjustment program also contributed significantly
to the delay in compliance with second tranche conditions. Throughout this
difficult period, the Government maintained a strong commitment to the
objectives of the project. The Bank also monitored closely the reform process
and maintained an intensive policy dialogue with the Government through
frequent super isions. By November 1988, all second tranche conditions were
satisfactorily met.
5.        Because of delays in catablishing the required administrative
arrangements and in including the budget for the technical assistance
component in the overall Government budget, loan funds for Part C were made
available for expenditure only two months prior to the original loan closing
date (June 30, 1989). To provide additional time for the implementation of
Part C, the loan closing date was originally extended by one year to June 30,
1990. However, because of administrative and budgetary problems associated
with the change in Government, implementation practically ground to a halt
during the first half of '990.  Two additional one-year extensions of the loan
closing date to June 30, 19)2, were subsequently made to provide time for
completing kFart C. A fourth and final one-year extension to June 30, 1993,
was recently agreed to provide time for the adequate planning and execution of
long-term studies.
6.        Results.  Overall the project can be considered satisfactory.
Important policy and institutional improvements were achieved in most policy
areas of the project. However, little or no progress was achieved in
expanding commercial stock financing and the use of market-based price risk
management techniques. Although considerably delayed, implementation of Part
r. esulted in a namber of highly relevant and useful studies. The economic
.,id redistributive impact of the project was in general positive.
7.        Areas of progress included:  (a) rural -edit - after a resurgence
of negative interest rates and credit subsidies because of the suspension of
monetary correction during the Cruzado Plan in 1986/87, full indexation of
official rural credit balances was restored at the end of February 1987.
Since then, although below market rates, interest rates on most official rural
credit have been adjusted to substantially positive levels in real terms, with
the average cost of federal securities serving as the floor.  Currently,
interest rates on most official rural credit are 9% per year plus full
monetary correction based on a market-determined reference rate. With the
support of two Bank loans approved in 1988 (Loans 2960-BR and 2971-BR, the
Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project and the Agricultural Credit Project,



respectively), the Government has also been reducing tne volume of official
rural credit and encouraging the expansion of private commercial finance;
(b) trade liberali;ation - external trade in the commodities covered by the
loan is now free oi quantitative and qualitative restrictions, except for a
very limited amo nt of products entering under the drawback system or under
international agreements.  While licensing of exports and impor'J  has been
maintained, steps have been taken to make it more automatic. For imports of
maize and rice, a system of variable tariffs was adopted in 1988 to equalize
the landad cost of lower-price imports with the domestic intervention prices
for the sale of Government stocxs.  Iloweyer, this system has no: -v n used
since the international prices for these products have not been lo.'er than the
intervention prices; (c) price, -tabilization - a system of market safeguards
(price bands) has been est    'iee for maize, rice and beans, with clear rules
ror Government intervention in e 4nestic markets and sales of public stocks.
However, there are no prescribed rtles for setting producer minimum prices
(the lower limits of the E-ice bands). These continue to be set based on a
number of factors, including production costs, international prices as well as
Government policy to promote or discourage a particular crop; (d) trade
simplification - steps have been taken to reduce or eliminate unnecessary
agricultural inspections, cut down on customs red tape and establish better
information systems to monitor trade transactions. Decisions on trade
licenses have boon decentralized to field offices of CACEX (now the Foreign
Trade Department of the Ministry of Fc .aomy). A system of automatic export
registration is now being applied to soy, maize, rice and cotton exports;
Ce) market information systems - a crop forecasting project of the Br"zilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE), financed under the technical
assistance component of the project, is already beginning to improve the
quality of the Government's agricultural production forecasts for the southern
region of Brazil; (f) wheat -sidv - adjustments in consumer and producer
prices have reduced Governmei.z expenditures on the wheat program from US$1.8
billion equivalent in 1986 to US$0.6 billion in 1990.
8.        The areas where little or no progress was achieved under the
project were: (a) commercial stock financinq - various institutional, policy,
legal and regulatory constraints have inhibited the issuance by banks of
barters' acceptances secured by storage warrants.  As a result, the PROSTOCK
facility is not operating; (b) price risk manaaement - although tax
discriminat½n against domestic relative to offshore futures market
transactions has been ended, the use of futures markets for hedging price
risks has not increased mainly because of Government interventions in these
markets and the unstable macroeconomic environment. Furthermore, access to
offshore commodity exchanges has remained limited because of the Government's
concern over the risk of capital flight.
9.        In addition to the IBGE crop forecasting project, the studies and
training activities which have received financing under Part C are highly
relevant and supportive of the policy reforms initiated under the project.
Under the current Government, the criteria for selecting technical assistance
activities have been strengthened to emphasize support for economic
dereguxlation and privatization.



- vi
10.       Any asoessment of the economic impact of the policy reforms
introduced under the project has to contend with the high degree of econ .i
instability in Brazil in recent years, which makes the problem of uat"ibution
much moro difficult than usual, and the fact that the reforms have been in
effect only for a relatively short period. It is clear, however, that the
substantial budgetary saving, resulting from reductions in credit and wheat
subsidies supporteci by the project have contributed significantly to the
fiscal policy objectives of the Government's economic stabilization programs.
It is also clear that the measures to liberalize agricultural trade and
simplify remaining trade regulations, which were implemented during a period
of depressed domestic demand, record harvests and increasing international
commodity price., have helped to improve the balance of payments. In 1989-90,
soybean and cotton exports earned an annual average of almost US$3.4 billion,
compared to US$2.1 billion in 1985-86.
11.       The impact of the trade and pricing policy reforms on domestic
producer prices and incentives is less clear. With the freeing of
agricultural export. and imports, domestic producer prices for the commodities
covered by the loan should have increased toward their border price
equivalents, reducing the negative protection or implicit taxation of these
commodities during 1988-90. While this was the case with cotton from the
Northeast region (as reflected in the substantial increase in exports), and to
much more limited extent, with rice, the domestic producer prices of maize,
soybeans and cotton produced in the other regions increased more slowly than
border price equivalents because of depressed domestic demand and sharp
reductions in official marketing credit (EGF). In the case of soybeans, these
two factors more than swamped the upward pressure on prices resulting from
freer trade and increased exports. Contrary to expectations, therefore, tkhs
gap between domestic and border prices of soybeans, as well as of maize and
cotton (other than Northeast cotton), appears to have increased during the
period 1988-90, indicating an increase in the implicit taxation of these
commodities.
12.       The transparency and predictability of the Government's
interventions in domestic agricultural markets under the market safeguards
system have lowered marketing risks and costs, and improved incentives for
private storage and m.-keting. This would couitribute to greater stability in
key agricultural prices in the future.  The efficiency gains from the various
reforms supported by the project, particularly the reduction in the credit and
wheat subsidies and pricing policy reforms, are also considered significant.
Finally, the impact on the poor of the various reforms, particular'y the
reduction in wheat and credit subsidies, was minimal. The beneficiaries of
much of the subsidies that have now been substantially reduced were mediu-. and
large farmers and middle and high income urban households.
13.       Sustainabilitv.  The prospects for maintaining and deepetaing the
reforms supported by the project are good in light of the commitment of the
current Government to reduce further government intervention in the economy
and liberalize markets. In the case of the trade and pricing policy refo'!ms,
important steps have been taken to deepen the reforms (e.g., minimum price
policy) or to extend them to other agricultural commodities (e.g., wheat and



- vii -
sugar) or other sectors. Despite these advances, there is the risk of
backsliding if macroeconomic instability continues.
14.       Findinos and Lessons.  The loan was part of a broad Bank assistance
program in support of the Government'e stabilization program (the so-called
Cruzado Plan) and other policy adjustments initiated in 1986. Based on the
plan's initial positive results, the Bank's expectation was that the economy
would stabilize and inflation would be kept under control. Based on this
expectatlon, the Bank decided not only to proceed with the loan at an early
stage of the plan, when progress toward macroeconomic stability was still
fragile, but also to postpone for the second tranche most of the policy
reforms supported by the loan. The first tranche release was based solely on
a rural credit reform which involved the introduction of a system of variable    S
nominal interest rates, a system which was viable only under stable
macroeconomic conditions.
15.       In the event, the Bank's expectations regarding the effectiveness
of the Cruzado Plan were overly optimistic. Starting with the breakdown of
the Cruzado Plan in the last months of 1986, Brazil entered a prolonged period
of macroeconomic instability which made it impossible to continue with the
rural credit reform supported by the first tranche and extremely difficult to
comply with the second tranche condition3. While satisfactory actions to meet
the objectives of the first and second tranches were eventually taken
(involving, in the case of rural credit, a return to full indexation), this
was at the cost of a long delay. At least two lessons can be drawn from this
experience: first. a sector adiustment loan should be made only after a trend
toward macroeconomic stability has been firmly established, and second. a
sector adjustment loan should. as much as Rossible. be made in supoort of
actual rather thEn orosoective reforms.
16.       Beyond the operational issues of timing and strategy, the lack of a
supportive macroeconomic environment during project implementation also meant
the persistence of an overvalued currency, which was a major tax on
agriculture. This factor, coupled with the continued protection and high
costs of manufactured agricultiral inputs, limited the positive impact on
agricultural incentives of the sector-specific trade reforms supported by the
loan. Without complementary improvements in non-agricultural policies which
accounted for a large share of the implicit taxation of agriculture, it is
unclear whether the positive impact on agricultural incentives of the sector-
specific trade reforms more than compensated for the negative impact of the
reduction in credit subsidies (which were presumably designed to help offset
the high costs of agricultural inputs).
17.       The preceding observations have several implications for the
content and sequencing of reforms in agriculture. In the usual case where the
sector is initially subject to high rates of implicit taxation, improving
economic efficiency would require that the rate of effective protection to
agriculture be increased until the implicit taxation is eliminated. In those
cases where the imolicit taxation is due significantlv to non-aaricultural
policies, as was true of Brazil, reforms in these Policies should orecede or
accompany the elimination of sector-specific distortions which have
artificially increased the orofitabilitv of aariculture (e.g.. credit and



- viii -
input subsidies). Without these reforms, either as complementary adjustment
operations or as part of the sector adjustment loan itself, the net effect of
the sector adjustment loan may be to worsen rather than improve the initial
implicit taxation of agriculture. If there is no guarantee of reform in non-
agricultural policies, elimination of sector-specific distortions which are
initially decreasing the profitability of agriculture (e.g., agricultural
export controls and taxes; should be given equal if not higher priority over
reforms in policies that attempt to help offset the anti-agricultural biases
of other policies (e.g., credit and input subsidies).
18.       The change in PROSTOCK, from a credit line for storage financing
into a discount facility to support a secondary market in bankers'
acvc:eptances, was not sufficient in itself to induce banks to provide storage
financing through bankers' acceptances. The institutional, policy, legal and
regulatory constraints to this use of this financial instrument should have
been fully identified and analyzed first before changing PROSTOCK. Had this
been done, the change would have been postponed until after the various
constraints had been eliminated. More fundamentally, the project appears to
have focused too narrowly on specific forms of commercial stock finance. A
broader, perhaps more productive approach would have been to develop the
appropriate conditions for the expansion of commercial finance (without
creating distortions elsewhere), leaving it to financial institutions to
design the specific financial instruments or innovations.
19.       The large technical assistance component of the loan (US$25
million) was not as thoroughly prepared as it would have I"een if it were a
freestanding overation. In addition, the difficulties of managing the
technical assistance activities also appear to have been underestimated. In
particular, while management by the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and
Planning (MINEC) was effective in ensuring the policy relevance of the
studies, the bureaucratic processes involved in the contracting and
administration of the studies slowed considerably the pace of implementation,
especially during 1989. The negative effects of the delays on contractor
morale were exacerbated by the high inflation rate which wrought havoc on
contract values.
20.       In future, where technical assistance octivities in support of
adiustment operations are large and complex. it is better to structure them as
a seoarate. freestandina ooeration with a realistic imolementation oeriod
(i.e., considerably longer than the quick disbursing companion project). The
management and administrative arrangements for these activities also need
careful preparation and planning to reduce the risk of delay during
implementation.



PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Proiect Identity
- Project Name: Credit and Marketing Reform Project
- Loan Number: 2727 - BR
- RVP Unit:     LAC
- Country :     Brazil
- Sector  :    Agriculture
B. Background
1.        Overall Economic Backcround.  The first half of the 1980e in Brazil
was characterized by severe internal and external economic imbalances combined
with intermittent periods of fast growth and stagnation. The internal
disequilibrium was reflected in a worsening of inflation, which more than
doubled from 100 percent p.a. in 1980 to 211 percent p.a. in 1983. By early
1986, inflation had accelerated further to 16 percent per month, or close to
500 percent on an annual basis.
2.        The increasing internal disequilibrium was mirrored by an increase
in the current account deficit to 5 percent of GDP in 1982. Faced also with a
drying up of voluntary lending due to the debt crisis, Brazil, in early 1983,
entered into an Extended Fund Facility agreement with the IMF and rescheduled
its debt service obligations with commercial banks. The stabilization
measures in 1983 (which included a 30 percent devaluation and a tigutening of
monetary and fiscal policies) resulted in a significant reduction in the
current account deficit. However, by 1985, aggregate demand policies again
became expansionary, leading to a deterioration in the external accounts.
3.        Growth performance during the first half of the 1980. was highly
variable. The stabilization attempts in 1981 and 1983 were accompanied by
negative GDP growth rates. While expansionary policies in 1984-85 resulted in
rapid economic growth (which reached 8.3 percent p.a. in 1985), domestic and
external imbalances were also exacerbated, limiting growth prospects over the
medium term.
4.        Apart from the macroeconomic disequilibria, another prominent
feature of the Brazilian economy in 1980-85 was the persistence and even
worsening of distortions at the sectoral/micro level. Among these were
quantitative controls of imports and of certain exports; high effective and
nominal protection in the manufacturing sector to the detriment of other
sectors, particularly agriculture; subsidies to various subsectors and
activities; and selective price controls. In addition to high static
efficiency losses, it is likely that theme distortions also led to a reduction
of the efficiency of investment. Moreover, the high and variable inflation
rates of the period worsened the structural problems by exacerbating the
misalignment of relative prices.



5.        By late 1985, the Government had started a comprehensive set of
reforms aimed at reducing the fiscal deficit and curbing inflation. This was
followed at the end of February 1986 by a radical heterodox stabilization
program (Cruzado Plan) which aimed at stabilizing the economy and reducing
inflation through Jnter aia& currency reform; a temporary freeze on prices,
the exchange rate, rent, mortgage payments and wages (the latter after they
had been increased to their average real value over the preceding six months);
and prohlbition of monetary correction or indexation of financial contracts
for periods less than a year, except for personal savings accounts.
6.        The initial results of the Cruzado Plan during the first few months
were positive overall, an were the Bank's preliminary assessments of the plan.
The large trade surplus built up in 1984-85, along with a competitive exchange
rate stemming from the decline of the dollar relative to the currencies of
Brazil's other trading partners, promoted growth. Bank analyses indicated
that these factors, accompanied by strict monetary and fiscal policies and by
key reforms in both the financial and the public sectors, would allow an
economic growth averaging 7 percent p.a. in 1985-90. This positive assessment
provided renewed impetus to Bank lending to Brazil.
7.        Auricultural Sector.  Although agriculture accounts for a
relatively small share in GDP, it has traditionally been a major source of
exports and employment. In 1970, agriculture accounted for 12 percent of GDP,
44 percent of the economically active population and 67 percent of total
exports. In 1980, these shares were 13 percent, 30 percent and 38 percent,
respectively. The agricultural sector registered real growth rates of roughly
4.0 percent p.a. throughout the 1960s and 1970s, and 2.8 percent p.a. in 1980-
87.
8.        During the 1970s, agricultural growth was characterized by
disparate rates among regions, farm types and individual crops. The most
dynamic growth was seen in products relying on heavy capital investment or
high levels of purchased farm inputs. Growth was also concentrated in large
farms in southern Brazil. These trends were reflected in a notable growth of
exports of soy products, orange juice, cocoa, tobacco and sugar. These five
products increased their share in total exports from 15 percent in 1970, to
over 50 percent in 1980. After 1980, agricultural exports grew
insignificantly, except in 1984 when coffee and orange juice benefitted from
favorable movements of international prices. By 1986, agricultural exports
were stagnating, per capita food production declining and food imports
increasing significantly.
9.        Although agriculture's performance over the past two decades was
satisfactory, shortcomings in Government policies and the absence of a
consistent strategy for sectoral development caused the sector to operate
below its potential. Direct Government interventions in agriculture,
particularly taxation of traded agricultural commodities and export
restrictions, resulted in the implicit taxation or negative protection of
agriculture. All the major agricultural crops, with the exception of wheat,
were subject to significant levels of negative nominal and effective
protection. In general, effective protection rates were even more negative
than the respective nominal rates, reflecting a high positive protection of



domestic industries producing agricultural inputs. Moreover, macroeconomic
instability and Government interventions failed to provide a stable price
environment for agriculture despite the latter's explicit goals in this
respect.
10.       Indirect, economywide interventions were also relatively more
important, or as important, as the direct, sector-specific interventions in
penalizing agriculture. During the 1980., the exchange rate is estimated to
have been overvalued on the order of 20 to 25 percent. Since the sector
produces mostly tradable goods, this had significant negative effects on the
profitability of agriculture and constituted a disincentive for agricultural
investment. Furthermore, excessive trade protection to manufacturing had an
additional negative effect on agricultural growth. In 1985, the average
effective protection for manufacturing was more than 40 percent. This
contrasted sharply with the negative protection of the agricultural sector
estimated at about -24 percent in the same year. As a result, agriculture was
seriously disadvantaged relative to the manufacturing sector in competing for
scarce resources. Moreover, excessive protection of manufacturing also led to
artificially high prices for agricultural inputs, as shown, for example, in
the nominal fertilizer and pesticide prices in 1978-88 which were on average
about 80 percent above border prices.
11.       Several sector-specific policies were implemented presumably to
compensate the agricultural sector for the overall discrimination against it.
Among these were a comprehensive minimum price program which aimed at
stabilizing domestic market prices and providing income support for producers.
A Bank evaluation of this program in 1985 concluded that this program was not
effective in achieving its goals. It was also costly for the Government, and
probably increased, rather than decreased, uncertainty for producers because
of the lack of consistent policies regarding the setting of minimum prices and
disposition of Government stocks.
12.       Two direct policy interventions in agriculture - the wheat and
credit subsidy programs - helped offset some of the implicit taxation of the
sector, albeit at huge fiscal costs. The producer subsidies given under the
wheat program effectively gave domestic wheat producers positive nominal and
effective protection. The effectiveness of credit subsidies in compensating
for the resource allocation biases against agriculture of prevailing
Government policies was generally limited, partly because of credit rationing
(which implied that the marginal cost of credit to producers was not the
subsidized rate but the market rate), but mainly because of the fungibility of
credit (which meant that significant diversion or leakages of subsidized
credit into other uses occurred directly or indirectly, by freeing or
substituting for the producer's own funds or funds borrowed at market rates of
interest.) However, for producers who had access to subsidized credit to
finance fully their purchases of inputs or capital goods without resorting to
borrowing on market terms, or for producers (most likely small and medium
size) who had difficulties in obtaining other financing to purchase inputs or
capital goods, the availability of official credit may have had a significant
resource allocation impact.



-4-
13.       Prolect Oricin and Justification.  Up to February 1986, the Bank
had made 35 loans, totalling US$2,229.2 million, for agricultural and rural
development in Brazil. Only one loan - the Agricultural Credit and Export
Development Credit Project (Loan 2348-BR), for US$303.0 million, approved in
August 1983 - provided support to the agricultural sector as a whole. This
loan supported a Government program to reduce agricultural credit subsidies
and was disbursed against a pre-export financing facility in the Central Bank,
a rural investment credit line with the Central Bank and a program of studies
for policy analysis.
14.       Under Loan 2348-BR, the agreement to end negative real interest
rates on official rural credit was based on two fundamental understandings
with the Government. First, that the reduction of subsidized rural credit
would be continued, and, second, that complementary reforms in trade and
pricing policies were necessary to maintain the balance of incentives given to
agriculture. These understandings provided the basic rationale for a second
loan aimed at reforming rural credit policy and introducing agricultural trade
and pricing reforms.
15.       The Cruzado Plan initiated in February 1986 (para. 5) provided a
framework for initiating significant reforms in key economic areas, including
agricultural credit, trade and pricing. The plan and other policy adjustments
made in 1986 were supported by a broad Bank assistance program, including an
electric power sector loan, a public sector management project and the Credit
and Marketing heform Project (Loan 2727-BR).
C.  Prolect Obiectives and DescriDtion
16.       Proiect Obiectives.  The objectives of Loan 2727-BR were (i) to
support the process of making the rural credit system more market oriented and
of reducing rural credit subsidies; and (ii) to bring about a reform in trade
and pricing policy for key agricultural commodities (rice, maize, beans,
cotton and soy products). The first objective was to be achieved, initially,
by raising interest rates on official (i.e., interest rate controlled) credit
to levels which, though below market interest rates, would substantially cover
funding costs, and subsequently, by adjusting official interest rates in line
with changes in market interest rates. The second objective was to be met by
reducing Government intervention in the external trade in agricultural
commodities; providing consumers and producers with effective safeguards
against extreme price fluctuations; increasing market-based opportunities for
risk management through the development of domestic futures markets and
expanded access to domestic and foreign futures markets; expanding commercial
financing of agricultural stocks through a dollar-denominated line of credit
for holders of hedged commodities (PROSTOCK) and a system of storage warrants
and associated bankers' acceptances; simplifying trade regulations; improving
market information systems; and reducing the wheat subsidy.
17.       Policy Content.   The Government's Statement of Agricultural
Policy, prepared in support of its application for Loan 2727-BR, set out an
agricultural growth strategy involving a major revision of incentives to allow
for a more market-oriented allocation of resources in the credit and commodity
markets. In the rural credit market, the reform was to consist initially of a



- 5 -
new interest rate policy announced in May 1986. Consistent with the de-
indexation which the Cruzado Plan was seeking to achieve, the policy
established a market-oriented structure of nominal, variable interest rates on
official rural credit. After an initial period until February 28, 1987,
during which nominal interest rates on most rural credit were fixed at 10
percent p.a. (which, though below market rates, were expected to substantially
cover funding costs), interest rates were to vary every six montuis thereafter,
based on the deposit rate for 180-day certificates of bank deposits. Since
the latter was expected to reflect market expectations of inflation, it was
assumed that rural credit interest rates would be highly positive in real
terms (10 percent on average). Implicit in both the initial and subsequent
interest rate arrangements was the assumption that the Cruzado Plan would
succeed in stabilizing the economy and containing inflation. In the medium
term, as the domestic financial markets became more stable, and more
integrated with the international economy, the Government stated that it would
continue to move towards a market-oriented rural credit system and that it
would explore alternatives to the compulsory lending requirements imposed on
banks.
18.       With regard to the commodity markets, five commercial policy
working groups were established to recommend actions in the areas of
agricultural trade and pricing. The first group was concerned with price
stabilization, specifically the limits that should be placed on movement in
domestic market prices once external trade was free. The second group dealt
with the management of price risks, mainly through expanded access to foreign
futures markets and the development of domestic futures markets. The third
group considered the financing of agricultural stocks, particularly the
development of appropriate financial instruments for agricultural marketing to
replace subsidized Government marketing credit (EGF). The fourth group was
concerned with the simplification of trade regulations and the introduction of
reforms to simplify the administrative systems at CACEX (formerly the Foreign
Trade Office of the Banco do Brasil), the Central Bank and the custom offices.
The fifth group dealt with the improvement in market information systems,
particularly crop forecasting and stock information systems.
19.       The Government also agreed to establish a new credit line
(PROSTOCK) to finance the storage of agricultural commodities. PROSTOCK was
originally envisaged as a pre-export, dollar-denominated credit line at the
Central Bank to finance the storage of hedged agricultural commodities. The
financing terms were to be comparable to those available to holders of export
contracts. An objective of PROSTOCK was to help directly expand and establish
firmly the practice of commercial stock financing based on storage warrants,
which eventually could evolve into acceptance financing by banks.
20.       The interest rate reform initiated in May 1986 (para. 17) was
considered sufficient basis for release of the first tranche of Loan 2727-BR.
The conditions for second tranche release were: (a) agreement on a phased
program of reforms in each of the five policy areas covered by the commercial
policy working groups; (b) first steps satisfactory to the Bank to initiate
the proposed program in each area; (c) approval by the Government of the
regulations on the PROSTOCK line of credit; (d) agreement on a plan for



-6-
progressive reduction in fiscal allocations to subsidize the whaat program.
In addition, for *econd tranche release, the interest rate reform initiated in
May 1986 was to be fully implemented.
21.       At the time of loan ne,otiations (May 1986), it was not possible to
define in detail the action program referred to in para. 20 (a) above since
the five working groups were scheduled to complete their recommendations only
by August 1986. However an indicative list of actions on trade and pricing
policies was met out in the President's Memorandum. It was expected that many
of the items listed would form part of the second tranche conditions. The
list includeds (a) announcement of a limited system of domestic market
safeguards (price bands) against extreme price fluctuations; (b) announcement
of a minimum price system consistent with (a); (c) revision of the tax laws
affecting futures trading; (d) relaxing foreign exchange regulations affecting
overseas trading of futures; (e) appointment of consultants for the design of
futures contracts and any necessary trading facilities; (f) contracting of
services to establish an integrated system for monitoring foreign exchange
transactions on both cash and futures trading; (g) establishment of an
administrative framework for internationally acceptable storage warrants and
submission to Congress of legislation to establish them, should this be
necessary; (h) contracting of services for the design and equipment of a
clearing house for storage warrants and to provide independent inspection of
commodities in bonded warehouses, satisfactory for internationally accepted
storage warrants; (i) expansion in the use of discounted commercial paper for
financing agricultural commodities; (j) settlement of regulations in the
Central Bank for establishing an integrated stock information system;
(k) Government approval for a program of improvements in crop forecasting,
including contracting of technical studies; (1) measures to simplify CACEX
agricultural trade regulations and procedures; and (m) contracting of services
for linking CACEX headquarters and agencies, and the Central Bank, to improve
the monitoring of physical and financial transactions on external markets.
22.       While the protection of agricultural inputs was an important source
of discrimination against agriculture, this issue was not addressed by the
loan. It seems to have been tacitly assumed that the benefits from
improvements in trade and output pricing would more than outweigh anv increase
in input costs to farmers resulting from the reduction or removal of credit
subsidies.
23.       Disbursement Mechanisms.  The loan was to be disbursed in two
tranches of US$300 million and US$200 million. It was originally agreed that
the entire first tranche and part of the second tranche (US$100 million) would
be disbursed to finance general imports, under procurement procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Part A of the loan). In addition, US$75 million of
the second tranche would be available to set up PROSTOCK (Part B). The
balance of US$25 million would finance consultants, training and equipment
under the technical assistance component of the loan (Part C).



- 7 -
24.       Institutional Arrancements.  The project war implemented initially
by the Central Bank and the Planning Secretariat iSEPLAN). The Central Bank
monitored all foreign exchange transactions for imports and was responsible
for submitting statements for reimbursement. It war also responsible for
implementing PROSTOCK. At the start of the project, the commercial policy
working groups were coordinated by SEPLAN, which also was to be responsible
for managing the technical assistance component. During project execution, as
a result of a realignment of functions between SEPLAN and the Ministry of
Finance, the latter became responsible for coordinating the working groaps.
At the recommendation of the Bank, changes were also made in the institutional
arrangements for managing the technical assistance component (para. 29).
D.  P    L Myletation
25.       First Tranche.  There were no special conditions for fL___ tranche
release, in addition to the interest rate reform announced in May 1986 (paras.
17 and 20). The first tranche of US$300 million was released in September
1986 upon loan effectiveness.
26.       Second Tranche.  The second tranche was released in November 1988,
or 26 months after loan effectiveness. This delay was partly attributable to
loan design. The specific policy conditions for second tranche release were
fully defined only in April 1987 after the Government working groups organized
under the loan had finalized their recommendations and discussed them *ith the
Bank (paras. 19 and 22). However, most of the delay was due to the
difficulties of carrying out an adjustment program in a highly unstable
macroeconomic environment. Between loan approval in June 1986 and second
tranche release, Brazil went through two unsuccessful stabilization programs
involving price freezes and trade controls which delayed compliance with the
trade liberalization conditions of the second tranche. Contributing
significantly to the delay was a lack of continuity in the technical team
responsible for coordinating the reform program, which itself mirrored the
changes in the Government's economic team and the related realignment of
functions between SEPLAN and the Ministry of Finance (para. 24). Delays were
also experienced in setting up the arrangements for administering and
operating PROSTOCK, particularly with regard to the access of private banks to
PROSTOCK, and in adopting all the required legal steps to equalize the tax
treatment between domestic and foreign futures operations.
27.       Despite the serious difficulties and delays in proceeding with the
agreed reforms, the Government maintained overall a strong commitment to the
objectives of the project. The Bank monitored closely the reform process and
maintained an intensive policy dialogue with the Government through frequent
supervision missions. By November 1988, all the second tranche conditions
agreed in April 1987 were met, and the second tranche was released without the
need for any waiver.
28.       PROSTOCR.  During project execution, it was agreed with the
Government that Bank loan funds allocated to PROSTOCK (US$75 million) would be
disbursed against imports, instead of short-term credit contracts for storage
financing, as originally envisaged. It was also agreed that the corresponding
amount in local currency would be allocated by the Government to capitalize



PROSTOCK, which was changed from a credit line for storage financing to a
discount window with the Central Bank to be used for discounting bankers'
acceptances secured by storage warrants. The modified design of PROSTOCK as a
last resort facility that would provide liquidity to a secondary market for
bankers' acceptances was intended to help induce banks to begin to issue
bankers' acceptances secured by storage warrants. It was expected that, once
the practice of issuing bankers' acceptances started and became established,
the volume of bankers' acceptance financing would easily be a multiple of the
PROSTOCK facility. Thus, the leverage effect of PROSTOCK as a discount
facility of last resort, in terms of the financing that it would support,
would be a multiple of what could be achieved by a credit line. It was also
argued that the change in PROSTOCK design was consistent with the Government's
policy to reduce direct allocations of credit to commercial banks by the
Central Bank.
29.       Technice  Assistance Comnonent.  As appraised, this component was
to be coordinated by SEPLAN. However, it was agreed during project execution
to transfer coordination of this component to an interministerial committee
consisting of the Special Secretary of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of
Finance, the Special Secretary of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of
Agriculture and the Secretary of International Affairs of SEPLAN. The
committee was supported by an interministerial technical secretariat drawn
from the same ministries represented in the committee as well as CACEX and the
Central Bank. Both the committee and its technical secretariat became extinct
in May 1990, as a result of the administrative changes introduced by the
Collor Government. In their place, a single interministerial technical
commission was established, with the Directo_ of Supply and Prices (DAP) of
the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Planning (MINEC), as chairman, and
representatives from DAP (executive secretary of the commission), Central
Bank, Special Secretariat of Economic Policy (SEPE/MINEC), Department of
External Trade (DECEX/MINEC), National Supply Company (CNA) and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Agrarian Reform (MARA), as members. Overall supervision of
the component was assumed by the Secretary of the Economy of MINEC. A two-
person advisory unit based in the CNA was also established in June 1990 to
assist the technical commission.
30.       The allocation of US$25 million for the technical assistance
component, originally part of the second tranche, was made av;ilable for
disbureen.int earlier than second tranche release through an amendment of the
Loan Agreement in November 1987. However, because of delays in establishing
the required administrative arrangements and in including the budget for the
component in the overall Government budget, loan funds were in fact made
available for expenditure only two months prior to the original loan closing
date (June 30, 1989). To provide additional time for the implementation of
thie component, the loan closing date was initially extended by one iear to
June 30, 1990. However, implementation practically ground to a halt during
the first half of 1990 because of administrative and budgetary problems
associated with the transition to a new Government. Two additional one-year
extensions of the loan closing date to June 30, 1992, were subsequently made
to provide time for completing technical assistance activities. A fourth and
final one-year extension to June 30, 1993, was agreed recently to provide time
for the adequate planning and execution of long-term studies. Of the US$25



- 9 -
million allocated to the technical assistance component, an amount of US$S
million, which was not expected to be used by June 30, 1993. has been
canceled.
E. Project Results
31.       Overall the project can be considered satisfactory.  As will be
discussed in the succeeding paragraphs, important policy and institutional
improvements were achieved in most policy areas of the project. The economic
and redistributive impact of these improvements was positive.
32.       Rural Credit.  With the failure of the Cruzado Plan to contain
inflation, the nominal interest rates on official (i.e., interest rate
controlled) rural credit (para. 17) became highly negative and resulted in a
huge increase in credit subsidies in 1986-early 1987. Full indexation of
official rural credit balances was restored at the end of February 1987, and
interest rates were also adjusted to 7-12 percent plus full monetary
correction, depending on farm size. While much below market rates, interest
rates on most official rural credit have generally been highly positive in
real terms, with the average cost of federal securities serving as the floor.
In January 1989, interest rates on official rural credit were raised to 12
percent plus full monetary correction (based initially on the IPC, and later
on the BTNF), the estimated average cost of federal securities. In 1990,
interest rates were reduced to 9 percent plus full monetary correction (based
on the BTNF), the estimated average cost of federal securities in that year.
However, since the BTNF lagged the IPC in April-May 1990, interest rates
temporarily turned negative and credit subsidies increased. Recently, as a
result of the measures adopted at end-January 1990 to deindex the economy, the
BTNF was abolished. Rural credit balances will now be adjusted based on a
reference rate (TR or "taxa referencial"), which would be calculated based on
deposit rates on bank certificates of deposit.
33.       Under two Bank loans approved in June 19881, the Government has
also been reducing the volume of official rural credit and encouraging the
expansion of private commercial finance for agriculture. Between 1987 and
1990, the volume of official rural credit declined by about 59 percent (Part
III Table 10). However, mainly because of unstable macroeconomic conditions,
the increase in the volume of private commercial finance has not compensated
fc- the reduction in official rural credit.
34.       With the reduction in the volume of official rural credit and
increases in real agricultural interest rates on official credit to
substantially positive levels during the pe:iod 1987-90, rural credit
subsidies have been cut sharply and are no longer an important issue as they
once were. In 1986, rural credit subsidies amounted to over 16% of
I/ Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) and the Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR).



- 10 -
agricultural GODP (compared to 0.7% id 1984 and 1.4% in 1985)1/. By 1990,
credit subsidies, as a percentage of agricultural GDP, had declined to a
relatively insignificant amount, which helped to alleviate pressure. on the
Government's fiscal budget. In addition to this positive fiscal impact,
efficiency gains in the allocation and use of credit have resulted from
increases in the cost of credit to better reflect its scarcity value. The
impact on small farmers of the withdrawal of credlt subsidLes was limlted
since the maln beneficLarLes of subsidlzed credlt in the past were medium and
large farmers.
35.       Trade Liberallzation and Agricultural Price Stabilization.
External trade in the commodLties covered by the loan (rice, maize, beans,
cotton and soy products) il now free of quantitative and qualitative
restrictions, except for a very limited amount of products entering under the
drawDack system or under lnternational agreements. While licensing of exports
and imports has been maintained, eteps have been taken to make it more
automatlc. For imports of maize and rice, a system of varLable tariffs was
adopted in 1988 to equalize the landed cost of lower-price imports with the
domestic intervention prices for the sale of Government stocks. However, this
system has not been used since the international prices for these products
have not been lower than the intervention prices, and up to 1989, Brazil has
not had to import significant amounts of these products.
36.       In September 1987, the Government announced a new system of market
gafeauards aimed at reducing and making more predictable Government
intervention in the domestic markets for maize, rice and beans. The system
involved a price band at wholesale level with a mininum prlce (consiLtent with
producer mlnimum prices announced for the 1987/88 ha-vest), a target price
(based on the average of the domestic market price over the past 60 months),
and a maximum or intervention price (set at 12 percent above the target pr,ce
for maize and rlce and 17 percent for beans). Rules for dLeposal of Government
stocks were part of the market safeguards system. The Government was supposed
to maintaln the priceu within the established band by buying and selling
commodity stocks. If prices fell below the minimum price, the Government was
supposed to buy in the market; if prices exceeded the maximum price, the
Government would sell stocks. The Government would sell or buy stocks to
bring the market price to the target price. As long as prices remained within
the band, the Government would not intervene in any form.
37.       Since its introduction, the integrity of the market safeguards
system has been maintained and has helped considerably to diecipline as well
as make more predictable Government interventions in domestic markets. By
lowering the marketing risks and costs to the private sector, the introduction
of the market safeguards system has improved incentives for private storage
and stockholding. ThLi would contribute to greater stabillity ln key
agricultural prices in the future. However, the persistence of hlgh and
variable lnflation makes the definition of the price bands quite difficult.
Also, there are as yet no prescribed rules for setting minimum prices. These
2/ World Bank, Brazll Agriculture Sector Review: Policies and Prosnects
(Report No. 7798-BR dated July 26, 1990).



- 11 -
continue to be based on a number of factors, including production costs and
international prices as well am Government policy to promote or discourage a
particular crop.
38.       The above trade and pricing policy reforms were implemented during
a porioc of slow economic growth, which was also one of record agricultural
harvest& and a recovery of international commodity prices. With depressed
domestic demand and abundant supply (including large stockholdings of rice and
maize imported during the Cruzado Plan), the freeing of agricultural exports
to take advantage of increasing international prices could be accomplished
while meeting adequately the requirements of domestic processing industries.
At the same time, agricultural imports could be freed without the risk of
incurring large foreign exchange outlays for grain imports. The effects of
trade liberalization on exports and imports of the commodities covered by the
loan are summarized in Part III Table 15. Between 1985-86 and 1989-90,
soybean exports increased by almost 85% to an average of 4.3 million tons.
During the same period, exports of low grade cotton (mainly from Brazil's
Northeast region) aieo increased by 119% to an average of 135 thousand tons
while cotton importi. increased by about 162% to an average of 115 thousand
tons. The value of soybean and cotton exports in 1989-90 averaged about
US$3.4 billion annually, compared to US$2.1 billion in 1985-86. On the other
hand, because of abundant domestic supplies, imports of rice and maize
declined to about 355 thousand tons in 1989, compared to almost 4.5 million
tons imported in 1986 during the Cruzado Plan. However, following the
disappointing 1989/90 harvest, imports of rice and maize increased to about
1.7 million tons in 1990, principally for areas which could not be supplied
comr- .'tively from the Government'e stocks which overall were adequate.
Hrt;< ,tv'  unlike in 1986, the last time when large imports of rice and maize
a-a- &de, the imports in 1990 were made by private traders, not by the
Government, and were absorbed in domestic markets with little or no
disruption.
39.       Unlike the impact of the trade and pricing policy reforms on
agricultural exports and imports, the effects on domestic producer prices and
incentives are more difficult to evaluate, given the highly unstable economic
conditions which have prevailed in recent years and the short time that the
adjusted policies have been in effect. For the commodities covered by the
loan, it can be hypothesized that with trade liberalization, domestic producer
prices for these commodities should have increased toward their border price
equivalents, reducing their negative protection or implicit taxation.
However, the evidence during 1988-90 is mixed. Part III Table 13 shows that
at official exchange ratee, the negative effective protection of Northeast
cotton was eliminated during 1988-90 as freer exports enabled the domestic
producer price of this commodity to increase to the border price equivalent.
As noted in the preceding paragraph, exports of Northeast cotton expanded
substantially during 1988-90. The negative effective protection of rice also
declined to some extent during this period. However, the domestic producer
prices of maize, soybeans and cotton produced in the other regions increased
more slowly than border price equivalents because of depressed domestic demand
and sharp reductions in EGF financing. In the case of soybeans, these two
factors more than swamped the upward pressure on prices resulting from freer
trade and increased exports. Contrary to expectations, therefore, the gap



- 12 -
between domestic and border prices of soybeans, as well as of maize and cotton
(othar than Northeast cotton), appears to have increased during the period
1988-90, indicating an increase in implicit taxation of these commodities.
Roughly comparable observations about the trends in negative protection or
implicit taxation between 1983-87 and 1988-90 could be drawn from data on
effective rates of protection at shadow exchange rates (Part III Table 14).
40.       Manaeement of Price Risks.  The loan supported changes in ta-
regulations which discriminated against domestic futures trading as well as
other measures to develop domestic futures marketa (e.g., trainisng in futures
markets under the technical assistance component) and tc improve access to
overseas future markets. While the tax treatment of profits derived from
domestic and foreign trading has been equalized, and foreign exchange and
interest rate futures trading in the Rio futures exchange has expanded since
its introduction in 1986, the development of price hedging activities has been
far from satisfactory. Major factors discour4ging domescic futures market
development have been the unstable macroeconomy as well as pervasive
Government interventions in these markets. Other measures to develop domestic
futures markets, such as the establishment of an independent regulatory agency
and allowing access of foreigners to domestic markets with a foreign exchange
guarantee, also need to be taken. Access to offshore commodity exchanges has
also remained limited because of the Government's concern over the risk of
capital flight.
41.        t,'mercia1 Stock Financino (PROSTOCK).  Appropriate regulations for
PROSTOCK L4 a discount facility were iesued by the National Monetary Courcil
in July 1988, and an amount of US$75 million equivalent was subsequently
allocated to fund PROSTOCK. However, contrary to expectations, commercial
banks have not originated any acceptances backed by storage warrants; thus,
the PROSTOCX facility has been dormant. The banks' apparent lack of interest
to issue storage acceptances can be attributed to the persistent macroeconomic
instability; competition from cheapor official marketing credit (EGF);
disinicentives under existing tax and financial policies; weaknesses in the
warehousing system and documents issued by warehouses which impair market
confidence in storage warrants; and various legal and technical constraints
(e.g., cumbersome collateral liquidation procedures).
42.       Simplification of Trade Reaulations.  The objectives of simplifying
trade procedures and removing unnecessary restrictions on agricultural trade
were achieved under the project. Procedures for automatic approval `by the
then CACEX of import authorizations of key commodities, provided that the
price and quality registered conformed to the international range, were put in
place. (CACEX, the external trade department of the Bank of Brazil which
regulates external trade, was abolished in 1990 as part of a more general
administrative reform). CACEX also decentralized its import licensing
procedures to its agencies operating throughout the country and eliminated
unnecessary agricultural inspections. The Central Bank adopted a new system
for a mcore effective and rapid monitoring of foreign exchange transactions.



- 13 -
Simplified export procedures were also adopted and CACEX was authorized to
issue export licenses without approval from other Government agencies. All
these steps have significantly reduced the cost of trade transactions and
contributed to the substantial expansion of agricultural exports in 1988-90.
43.        Market Information Systems.  Supported by the technical assistance
component of this loan, the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics
(IBGE) carried out a crop forecasting project covering the major agricultural
states in the Center-South region (Parana, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Federal
District, Rio Grande do Sul and Mato Grosso do Sul). Project results were
positive and are now being used to improve the accuracy of IBGE's crop
forecasts. IBGE has also prepared a project to improve information on
agricultural stocks which, jointly with proposals prepared by local commodity
exchanges to improve the timeliness and dissemination of data on commodity
market transactions, are important steps to increase the availability and
transparency of market price information.
44.       Wheat Subsidv.  Between 1986 and 1990, Government expenditures on
the wheat program declined from US$1.8 billion equivalent (about 0.7 percent
of GDP) to about US$0.6 billion. This reduction, which aided considerably the
Government's efforts to achieve fiscal balance, was achieved through a series
of wheat price adjustments starting in 1987 which were designed to cover the
Government's cost of purchases and distribution and align producer prices more
closely with border prices. As a result of these price adjustments,
protection of wheat, which used to be substantially positive until 1987,
became somewhat negative in 1988-90 (Table III Table 13). Efficiency in
resource allocation is expected to improve as domestic wheat production and
consumption adjust to border prices. The impact on poor families of the
reduction in the wheat subsidy was minimal since the subsidy had benefitted
mainly middle and upper income households in the South and Southeast regions.
45.       Technical Assistance Component.  Because of start-up delays (para.
31), this component has effectively been under implementation for only two
years. Also, while some of the activities to be supported by this component
were known broadly during appraisal, much of the content of this component was
defined specifically only during project execution. Furthermore, a number of
important technical assistance activities broadly identified at appraisal
(e.g., integrated stock information system, real-time computer link among the
main commodity exchanges for recording cash transactions, electronic
clearinghouse to serve the development of a commodities futures exchange, an
inspection and clearinghouse for storage warrants) could not be implemented
for legal reasons (mainly that they would involve the purchase with Government
funds of equipment intended for private use).
46.       In addition to the IBGE crop forecasting project, a number of other
studies in the policy areas covered by the loan have been carried out. Some
of the policy studies, particularly on agricultural trade, pricing, storage
and marketing finance, have been used in formulating the present Government's
reform agenda in these policy areas. A list of studies completed to date, and
a summary of selected studies, are shown in Annexes I and 2, respectively.
The policy areas on which studies and training will be carried out during
1991-92 are listed in Annex 3. These reflect the new priorities by the



- 14 -
current Gov-rnment which took office in Narch 1990, and include, for example,
studies on further liberalization of agricultural marketing and the
privatization of Government-owned warehouses.
P. Proiegj sustainability
47.       The prospects for maintaining and deepening the reforms supported
by the project are good in light of the commitment of the current Government
to liberalize agricultural markets further and reduce government intervention
in the economy. The following steps have been taken to deepen the trade and
pricing policy reforms supported by the loan, or to extend them to other
agricultural commodities: (a) the policy of panterritorial minimum prices has
been replaced by regionalized minimum prices which reflect transport cost
differentials among the various regions; (b) the Commission for Production
Financing (CFP), the Brazilian Federal Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) and the
Brazilian Food Company (COBAL) have been merged into a single, much leaner
organization (CNA), and a divestiture program for government-owned warehouses
is being formulated; and (c) while quantitative restrictions on wheat imports
and sugar exports have been maintained, important steps to liberalize trade in
these commodities have been taken. In the case of wheat, the Government's
monopoly on both wheat imports and domestic wheat sales has been ended, and
domestic wheat processing, formerly tightly controlled through quotas to
millers, is being liberalized. The variable tariff system has also been
extended to wheat imports to equalize lower import prices with the domestic
market price of wheat. In the case of sugar, with the abolition of the
Institute of Sugar and Alcohol (IAA), direct Government participation in
domestic sugar marketing has been ended.
48.       The current Government has also announced an overall trade reform
program that has important implications for the balance of incentives in the
agricultural sector. Most quantitative discretionary non-tariff barriers to
imports have been eliminated and a program to reduce import tariffs (including
tariffs on agricultural inputs and capital goods) was initiated in 1990.
Import tariffs are to be reduced to an average of 20 percent, with a maximum
tariff of 40 percent by 1994. These reforms should significantly reduce the
degree of discrimination against agriculture by allowing the sector to pay
lower (i.e., close to border) prices for its inputs and capital goods, and by
decreasing the relative advantage of the manufacturing sector vis-a-vis
agriculture. The positive impact of the tariff reform has yet to show up in
the measures of effective protection of agriculture. Except for Northeast low
grade cotton and long grain rice, the effective rates of protection for the
commodities covered by the loan became more negative in 1988-90, reflecting
depressed domestic demand, low domestic agricultural prices and a shortage of
marketing credit in 1990 (Part III Table 14).
49.        While substantial gains have been made in furthering the reforms
supported by the loan, limited success has been achieved in controlling
inflation. This lack of price stability limits the positive impact of the
reforms already made, and more importantly, increases the risk of policy
reversals. Also, despite the adoption of a floating exchanqe rate in March
1990, and a substantial recent depreciation, the real exchange rate has



- 15 -
remained low (relative to the 1982-86 level), maintaining the bias against
export.
G.  Bank Perfomance/Borrower PerformanceLProiect Relationship
SO.       Until the release of the second tranche in November 1988, the
Government's performance with respect to second tranche conditions was
monitored closely by the Bank through frequent supervision missions (Table 5,
Part III). These missions took place every two months on average, and were
adequately staffed to assist the Government's coordinating team in analyzing
specific issues under the policy areas covered by the loan, and in proposing
solutions.  The missions maintained an intensive policy dialogue with the
Government, which contributed to maintaining the continuity of the reform
process despite unsettled macreconomic conditions and changes in the
Government's economic team and associated changes in the coordinating team for
the project.
51.       The delay in the Government's compliance with the agreed second
tranche conditions was related mainly to the failure of successive
stabilization plans to restore macroeconomic equilibrium. However, the
Government consistently maintained its commitment to the trade and pricing
policy reforms supported by the loan, and carried out promptly the necessary
actions whenever there was an opportunity to do so.
52.       Project supervision after second tranche release was limited to the
technical assistance component, and its frequency was reduced to one mission
every six to seven months. This level of supervision was too low given the
inadequate preparation of this component (para. 45) and the many, diverse
studies that were finally identified for financing under the component.
H. Concluaions and Lessons Learned
53.       The loan was part of a broad Bank assistance program in support of
the Cruzado Plan and other policy adjustments initiated in 1986. Based on the
plan's initial positive results, the Bank's expectation was that the economy
would stabilize and inflation would be kept under control. This expectation
underpinned the Bank's decision not only to proceed with the loan at an early
stage of the plan when progress toward macroeconomic stability was still
fragile, but also to postpone for the second tranche most of the policy
reforms supported by the loan. The first tranche release was based solely on
a rural credit reform which involved the introduction of a system of variable
nominal interest rates, and was viable only under reasonably stable
macroeconomic conditions.
54.       In the event, the Bank's expectations were overly optimistic.
Starting with the breakdown of the Cruzado Plan in the last months of 1986,
BraLil entered a prolonged period of macroeconomic instability which made it
impossible to continue with the rural credit reform supported by the first
tranche and extremely difficult to comply with the second tranche conditions.
While satisfactory actions to meet the objectives of the first and second
tranches were eventually taken (involving, in the case of rural credit, a
return to full indexation), this was at the cost of a long delay. At least



- 16 -
two lessons can be drawn from this exnerience: first. a sector adiustment loan
should be made only after a trend toward macroeconomic stability has been
firmly established, and second. a sector adiustment loan should. as much as
Possible. be made in suvport of actual rather than orosnective reforms.
55.       Beyond the operational issues of timing and strategy, the lack of a
supportive macroeconomic environment during project implementation also meant
the persistence of an overvalued currency, which was a major tax on
agriculture. This factor, coupled with the continued excessive protection and
high costs of manufactured agricultural inputs, limited the positive impact on
agricultural incentives of the sector-specific trade reforms supported by the
loan. Without complementary improvements in non-agricultural policies which
accounted for a large share of the implicit taxation of agriculture, it is
unclear whether the positive impact on agricultural incentives of the sector-
specific trade reforms more than compensated for the negative impact of the
reduction in credit subsidies (which were originally given to help offset the
high costs of agricultural inputs).
56.       The preceding observations have several implications for the
content and sequencing of reforms in agriculture. In the usual case where the
sector is initially subject to high rates of implicit taxation, improving
economic efficiency would require that the rate of effective protection to
agriculture be increased until the implicit taxation is eliminated. In those
cases where the implicit taxation is due sianificantlv to non-agricultural
voliciesg as was true of Brazil. reforms in these oolicies should precede or
accogmpany the elimination of sector-specific distortions which have
artificially increased the profitability of agriculture (e.g.. credit and
inout subsidies). Without these reforms, either as complementary adjustment
operations or as part of the sector adjustment loan itself, the net effect of
the sector adjustment loan may be to worsen rather than improve the initial
implicit taxation of agriculture. If there is no guarantee of reform in non-
agricultural policies, elimination of sector-specific distortions which are
ini_ially decreasing the profitability of agriculture (e.g., agricultural
export controls and taxes) should be given equal if not higher priority over
reforms in policies that attempt to help offset the anti-agricultural biases
of other policies (e.g., credit and input subsidies).
57.       The conversion of PROSTOCK during project implementation from a
credit line into a discount facility to support a secondary market in bankers'
acceptances, was not sufficient in itself to induce banks to provide storage
financing through bankers' acceptances. Full analysis of the specific
institutional, policy, legal and regulatory constraints to this use of this
financial instrument should have preceded the change in PROSTOCK. Had this
been done, the change would have been postponed until after the various
constraints had been eliminated. More fundamentally, the project appears to
have focused too narrowly on specific forms of commercial stock finance. A
broader, perhaps more productive approach would have been to develop the
appropriate conditions for the expansion of commercial finance (without
creating distortions elsewhere), leaving it to financial institutions to
design the specific financial instruments or innovations.



- 17 
58.       The large technical assistance component of the loan (US$25
million) war not as thoroughly prepared an it would have been if it ware a
freestanding operation. in addition, the difficulties of managing the
technical assistance activities also appear to have been underestimated. In
particular, while management by the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and
Planning (MINEC) was effective in ensuring the policy relevance of the
studies, the bureaucratic processes involved in the contracting and
administration of the studies slowed considerably the pace of implementation,
especially in the early months. The negative effects of the delays on
contractor morale were exacerbated by the high inflation rate which wrought
havoc on contract values.
59.       In future, where technical assistance activitieg in suoport of
adiuatment operations are larae and complex. it is better to structure them as
a separate, freestandine ooeration with a realistic imolementation period
(i.e., considerably longer than the quick disbursing companion project). The
management and administrative arrangements for these activities also need
careful preparation and planning to reduce the risk of delay during
implementation.



- 19 -
PART I I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE/
A. Comments on Part I
60.       The preceding Part I, prepared by IBRD, does not raise issues which
warrant further discussion. Its conclusion that economic stabilization
difficulties are impeding the established reform process is also valid.
61.       With regard to rural credit, recent allocations in the Government's
budget have provided for reasonable levels of production credit for mini and
small producers, but only partial levels of assistance for agricultural
marketing. This meant that the provision of rural credit has come to rely
more strongly on private sources. The interest rates applied on official
credit have also been cositive in real terms.
62.       Concerning the protection of agriculture, it is expected that
ongoing reforms to better integrate the country with the international economy
can bring about good results. Thus, measures already adopted to reduce
tariffs on agricultural machinery and inputs must be continued in the coming
years.
63.       However, as a medium to long term process, economic liberalization
has a maturation period in which policies under implementation, including
their expected results, cannot always be entirely compatible, especially when
the changes are occurring during a period of economic stabilization and
adjustment. It should therefore be expected that while there may be rapid
progress in reaching some objectives, obstacles may be encountered in seeking
to achieve others.
64.       Thus, on many essential points of the reform program, the results
obtained wore definitely satisfactory. For example, as mentioned above, rural
credit subsidies have been curtailed. Also, as a result of recent reforms in
wheat marketing, the burden of the wheat subsidy on public finances will be
reduced considerably.
65.       With regard to the technical assistance component of Loan 2727-DR
(Part C), the Government's priorities for assistance have recently been
defined, and it is now opportune to carry out the necessary studies and
training activities.
66.       With regard to agricultural marketing, including PROSTOCK,
preparation work has started on a proposed commercial marketing project which
aims at privatizing official storage and classification.
JJ Part II is the Bank's translation into English of the Portuguese version
prepared by the Department of Supply and Prices of the Ministry of the
Economy, Finance and Planning.



- 20 -
67.       Finally, it is concluded, based on both the World Bank's evaluation
and the conclusions of our own internal studies, that the measures eupported
by Loan 2727-BR were in the right direction, but that their positive impact
was limited by the macroeconomic situation.
68.       In light of the progress achieved to date, and the present
Government's determination to promote an open economy, one can be optimistic
about the future prospects of the agricultural sector.
69.       Following is an appraisal of the evolution of proposals for reform
in Brazilian agriculture, formulated at the time of Loan 2727-BR. The reforms
in the following five policy areas are evaluated: a) trade liberalization; b)
foreign trade regulations; c) crop and storage data; d) futures markets for
agricultural commodities; and e) use of warrants in agricultural marketing.
B. Evaluation of Agricultural Sector Reforms
70.       In summary, the proposals were aimed at a) reducing the level of
Government intervent-on in the pricing system; b) simplifying foreign trade
regulations; c) strengthening agricultural commodities markets and hedging
operations in futures markets; d) developing financial instruments such as
warrants and "bankers' acceptances"; and e) promoting improvements in data
systems. In September 1987, the National Monetary Council (CMN) approved Vote
43E/87 which established general rules for Government intervention in
agricultural marketing, and paved the way for other related initiatives, as
shown later.
71.       Significant advances were made in liberalizing and administering
agricultural product prices as well as in simplifying foreign trade
regulations. Important progress was alBo made in crop and stock data.
Progress in futures markets and agricultural marketing services was quite
limited, however.
72.       Summary and Evaluation of Reform Proposals.   The proposed reforms
were aimed at organizing internal agricultural markets and liberalizing prices
in order to promote an opening of external trade. Besides requiring changes
in agricultural policy, they were meant to stimulate the creation or growth of
a varied set of modern marketing services (storage, insurance, new financial
instruments, etc.) The process of change did not conform to the expectations
formed in the mid-1980s, in that a broad liberalization was hindered by a
number of internal and external factors.
73.       With regard to internal factors, liberalization of agricultural
product prices depended on the development of adequate institutional
structures as well as the creation of new marketing services which can
efficiently replace present structures and services. A large part of the
institutions and services have yet to be created and little has been done to
date. However, with regard to external factors, there is no clear benefit in
linking domestic prices to external prices, unless world prices actually
reflect opportunity costs and relative shortage. In fact, international
prices frequently differ from the respective "equilibrium prices", which
suggests some caution in taking current prices as long-term indicators of



- 21 -
comparative advantage. The Uruguay Round, within the GATT negotiations, has
not succeeded in correcting such distortions. It remains necessary to
conaider who should take the first steps toward liberalization. There is
evidence indicating that developing countries would lose if they were to
initiate taking liberalization measures first (see Tyers and Anderson (1988),
Distortions in World Food Markets). Meanwhile, producers would gain and
Brazilian urban consumers would lose, along with significant political and
social implications.
74.       In 1986, reforms were delayed because of another set of problems.
First, the core of this reform was the liberalization of agricultural prices.
The instability of exchange rates among stronger currencies, together with
changes in developed countries' internal monetary policies, caused strong
fluctuations in international prices, especially for countries like Brazil,
which try to keep parity between their currency and the U.S. dollar. Second,
with inflation, the dispersal of relative price increases and consequently the
risk to agricultural products. Third, there is an interrelation between price
liberalization and the availability of some marketing services (commodity
exchanges, futures markets, etc.) in that one depends on the other.
Liberalization is hindered because there are no adequate institutional
mechanisms to lessen the impact of price fluctuations on producers' income.
In the absence of mechanisms such as futures markets, rural insurance and
long-term financing, the Government has to resort to less than optimal
instruments such as subsidized interest rates and price controls. Fourth, it
is not possible to conceive of important institutional reforms occurring in
one sector, independently of the rest of the economy. This period 1987-1990
coincided with three economic stabilization programs, two of which consisted
of transitional measures which were contrary to the policies proposed by the
working groups. There were three relatively ineffective price freezes, which
also altered relative prices, generally against agriculture. The exception
was the Plano Verao (Summer Plan) because the total de-indexing of the
financial system led to the search for alternative real assets which
benefitted agricultural products during the harvest.
75.       Imminent hyper-inflation from mid-1989 to March 1990 made any
medium-term business planning infeasible. All efforts to introduce
alternative instruments to the EGF were unsuccessful. The Government's
budgetary problems also limited the use of traditional instruments such as
minimum prices, AGF and EGF. While the issues covered by the working groups
are interdependent, developments in each policy area are summarized separately
below, in accordance with the original structure of the working groups.
76.       Market Liberalization with Safeeuards.  This proposal suggested a
partial stabilization mechanism with differentiated treatment for export and
for domestically consumed products. For export products, especially cotton
and soybeans, it was suggested that the minimum price policy be integrated
with the use of a fluctuating tariff. Domestically consumed products would be
subject to the following price scheme: (a) a minimum price below which the
Government would purchase to form stocks; (b) a first, higher limit to
determine the beginning of the sale of Government stocks; and c) a second
upper limit above which an import subsidy program would begin.



- 22 -
77.       Important advances were made with regard to the liberalization of
export and import of cotton, corn, soybean products (Resolution CONCEX No.
155, of May 4, 1988) with the elimination of quantitative restrictions
(quotas, export bans and prohibitions). However, the overvaluation of the
currency and low international commodity prices prevented a more significant
impact of these measures.
78.       The Government's rules for intervention were approved, which
involved the introduction of an "intervention price" for the sale of
Government stocks, based on a historical average of - ices. Even considering
some operational difficulties in the intervention program, the first year's
experience may be considered a great success for its principal objectives,
which were to: (a) harmonize price controls and supply with the minimum price
policy; (b) promote a major role for the private sector in the marketing of
basic agricultural commodities; and (c) allow greater remuneration for
agricultural producers during the harvest period through a greater
concentration of demand of traders and processing industries during this
period of the year.
79.       In the second year's experience with intervention rules (1989),
results were not as evident because of the rationing of EGF resources in the
first half of the year, and a strong acceleration of inflation in the second
half, which caused all economic indexing systems to lag inflation. The lack
of budgetary resources to cover subsidies in the sale of rice in January and
February 1990 showed the importance of greater institutional coordination
within the Government to giaarantee the proper functioning of the new system.
An institutional reform introduced by the new Government in 1990, which brings
together all institutions responsible for supply in the Ministry of Economy,
should solve this type of problem.
80.       The system of intervention prices needs to be extended to other
products and regions and, within the context of the opening of the economy,
needs to be linked to international prices.
81.       Another important advance has been the recent privatization of the
purchases and sales of wheat in the internal market, breaking the state
monopoly in effect for more than 20 years.
82.       With regard to the price stabilization policy, the regionalization
of minimum prices (freight discounts from guaranteed prices in distant
regions), adopted for the 1990/91 harvest, represented an important step in
the withdrawal of the Government from the marketing of the grain harvests.
83.       Foreign Trade Reoulations.  The proposal included a series of
measures related to norms, documents and procedures, considered necessary to
facilitate agricultural exports and imports. It was specifically suggested:
eliminating non-tariff barriers; suspending exports only in accordance with
previously known rules; and simplifying documents. Concerning imports, the
group suggested a periodic review of suspended imports, guaranteeing approved
import programs, decentralizing the examination of or eliminating programs for
imports, consolidating draw-back regimes and doing away with pro-forma



- 23 -
invoices. Other suggestions included a number of alterations in procedures in
exchange operations. Several other strong measures were suggested: re-
evaluation of CONCEX's functions, a single document for exports, tax
exemptions of exports, use of third country flag vessels, incentives for
creation of trading companies, etc.
84.       Significant progress was made in the implementation of the
proposals. Exports and imports of agricultural products were liberalized.
The degree of liberalization for sugar and coffee was raised with the
extinction of the IAA and IBC. The Brazilian position in relation to the
international coffee agreement, of not adhering to the economic clauses, also
represented an important step. The end of the Government monopoly in the
importation of wheat, currently being implemented, represents an important
step toward liberalization. Administrative procedures became more flexible
with the dLcentralization and the elimination of prior control of exports.
85.       Recentlye as part of the Government's economic liberalization
program, major flexibility in the import program was achieved. Border customs
officea and interior customs centers were expanded. The foreign exchange
market is less restrictive. It is not free in the sense that not just anyone
can buy and sell foreign currency, but rather only those with import or export
permits. A lack of resources impeded expansion of customs terminals in the
ports.
86.       The reduction of customs tariffs within the context of tariff
reform and the recent creation of a system of variable tariffs for wheat and
the elimination of quantitative restrictions over the imports of inputs
indicate progress in trade liberalization.
81.       An advance in disciplining Government intervention in the market
was due to the Constitution itself which prohibits the granting of fiscal
incentives to state companies. The Agricultural Law, approved on January 30,
1991, introduced a safeguard of compensatory taxes against subsidies of
agricultural exports to Brazil. The same law made mandatory the sale of
public stocks through auctions or competitive bidding, which represents a
disciplining of state intervention in agricultural marketing.
88.       During the implementation of the liberalizing reforms, several
steps backwards occurred with the adoption of price freezes and controls, but
these were transitory measures to assist the stabilization plans, and did not
compromise the continuity of the trend toward liberalizing agricultural
marketing.
89.       With regard to the major inter-connection project among CACEX, the
Central Bank and the Secretariat of Federal Revenue, there was no success.
Nevertheless, the need for integration became evident, and a rather broad
diagnosis of the problem is now available as well as a methodology to deal
wlth it.
90.       Croo and Stock Data.  When work began in 1986, IBGE was already re-
examining its agricultural statistics, mainly to identify the need to obtain
data through objective sample surveys in order to complement or replace the



- 24 -
subjective surveys it traditionally produced. The implementation of objective
surveys in a slow process involving a series of statistical, computer and
remote sensing techniques as well as sophisticated procedures for reading and
interpreting satellite images.
91.       Besides a crop data system, the proposal suggested a systematic,
rapid, and reliable survey of stocks with adequate covorage. The proposal
aimed essentially at giving transparency to the market and eliminating the
risk resulting from lack of knowledge of the volume of private and public
stocks. It proposed: a) carrying out an objective survey for crop forecasts
based on remote sensing; b) implementing stock research; c) making consistent
and transparent the announcements of agricultural statistics, determining
which official entities would be authorized to make them public; and d)
broadening representation in CEPAGRO.
92.       All proposals were partially or completely implemented.  The remote
sensing project begun in Parana has been extended to Santa Catarina, Rio
Grande do Sul, the Federal District and S&o Paulo according to the timetable.
Stock research progressed partially, but achieved a more limited coverage due
to resource shortfalls, which made it necessary to decrease yearly surveys
from 3 to 2. The results available are from the two 1986 surveys, first and
second semesters of 1987, first and second semesters of 1988, first semester
and preliminary results from the second semester of 1989.
93.       With regard to crop forecasts via remote sensing, the pilot test
was carried out in January 1987. During 1988, 1989 and 1990, srmple panels
for the States of Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul and Sao Paulo were
constructed. Field surveys to test the methodology were carried out in
Parana, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo and the Federal District. The development
of methodologies for the use of remote sansing techniques, as well as for the
implementation of the system of computer graphics, has yet to be completed.
94.       Futures Markets.  Fiscal, financial, regulatory and administrative
distortions have limited the development of futures markets. Fiscal
distortions were related to the treatment of taxes on profits in futures
operations and differences in ICM tax rates between states. Besides
suggesting the correction of these distortions, the proposals suggested the
privatization of classification services, the use of preferential taxes to
stimulate the futures market, initiating information campaigns through courses
or other means to broaden interest in futures markets, and standardization and
improvement of the institutional framework.
95.       Other suggestions included: (a) using procedures of futures
exchanges in spot price fixing; b) the mandatory use of warrants as collateral
in the Government's AGF and EGF operations; c) holding of courses, seminars,
speeches, etc. to present information and promote futures markets; d) creation
of professional training courses in futures markets; e) utilization of futures
markets in imports and control of regulatory stocks; f) mandatory
participation of national brokers in intermediating operations carried out by
residents of Brazil on foreign exchanges; g) incorporation of warrants in the
Rural Credit Manual; and h) promotion of Brazilian warrants overseas.



- 25 -
96.       This area did not develop according to expectations.  The
distortion of the profit tax was correctad, but the distortion resulting from
differences in ICM tax rates between states remained. Internationalizing
stock exchanges was not well received.  Within Government, the argument
against this proposal was that Brazilian futures activities were just
beginning. Little progress was in transferring classification activitLes to
commodity exchanges. The most important step was the accreditation of BM&F to
classify coffee. Progress was made in training, especially at the level of
commodity exchanges. Notable progress was made in negotiations among the
exchanges, banks and storage companies in developing an on-line data system on
transactions in various exchanges and in providing bank financing to cover
guarantee deposits and daily margins related to the purchase or sale of
futures contracts. There was little progress in the area of government-level
regulation, although progress was made on the private sector level with the
creation of n'ew contracts.  Futures trading i. agr.cultural commodities was
not taking place in the BM&F and trading volum2e in the BMSP were small,
indicating imperceptible progress in the proposals.
97.       Warrants and Storage.  The proposal of reforn, in this area dealt
with the excessive state intervention in the areas of agricultural marketing
(AGF and EGF) where the private sector can act more efficiently. An adequate
product classification and standardization system does not exist. Many other
factors limit the effectiveness of the storage system, indicating the need for
reforming commercialization services. This reform was aimed at developing a
system of warrants and other negotiable instruments which could support
private financing operations, thus increasing resources available for
agricultural marketing. It was suggested: a) creating rules for broadening
the accreditation process for stor ge units, cooperatives and private persons,
and making the issuance of warrants obli-gatory; b) adjusting legislation of
ICMS so that this tax does not occur while merchandise is deposited; d)
suggesting to the various institutions involved (exchanges, banks, etc.)
mechanisms to verify the authenticity of documents; e) defining rules and
conditions for agents involved (exchanges, CIBRAZEM, etc.); f) eliminating
restrictions on procedures for the network of private storage companies; g)
integrating agencies involved in supply (CFP, CIBRAZEM, SEAP, COBAL and
SUNAB); h) restructuring CIBRAZEM; and i) organizing the system of stock data.
98.       As mentioned previously, progress was poor in this area.  The most
relevant progress on the Government side was the administrative restructuring
that came with the Plano Brasil Novo (New Brazil Plan). In this reform,
Government agricultural marketing agencies (CFP, SEAP, CIBRAZEM, etc.)
underwent changes which defined a more consistent present framework.
99.       The proposals envisioned a marketing system that should work based
on classification, the use of warrants, storage, exchanges, market financing
and insurance. More perceptible progress was made with regard to commodity
exchanges, although this was insufficient to establish a modern marketing
process.



- 26 -
100.      With regard to classification, the accreditation or authorizatlon
system to *nable other entities, with the exception of the Ministry of
Agriculture, to carry out official classification was not changed, and
institutional arrangements for accreditation are still slow. Only recently
was the problem of storage tariffs resolved. Even so, there are special
conditions for PGPM products. Finally, it is not known if the storage service
bureaucracy has improved.
101.      With respect to commodity exchanges, progress was made in
integrating the country's main exchanges via on-line data in order to induce
more transactions in spot markets. The idea behind the initiative is that
futures markets will not develop in the country before existing markets are
serious, dynamic and competitive.
102.      With regard to financing for marketing, there was no progress in
the PROSTOCK program due to the following problems. First, the program's
success depended on the support of basic marketing services.  These services
include storage, insurance and classification, the lack of development of
which made dLfficult the use of warrants as a financial instrument. Second,
the interest rate was also higher than that on the market. On the other hand,
discussions were positive with regard to the involvement of commercial banks
in market financing. However, the negotiations process between commercial
banks and the Central Bank on a commercial system using instruments
collaterized by stored commodities, did not progress.
103.      However, there were undeniable gains in the understanding of the
problem. A study financed under Part C of Loan 2727-BE presented innumerable
suggestions for concrete measures, many of which lack onsly a decision in order
to be implemented, including the suggestion for a specific study to look at
the privatization of storage services and of classification.



- 27 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table Is RELATED BANK LOANS
YEAR OF APPROVAL
LOAN TITLE                   PURPOSE                    AND STATUS
Agricultural Credit and    First policy-based             1983. Completed (PPAR
Export Development          agriculture sector loan       No. 7922)
Project                     aimed at phasing out
(Loan 2348-BR)             subsidized agricultural
US$303.0 million            credit.
Fourth Agro-Industries      To facilitate an              1988. In execution.
Credit Project              expansion of commercial
(Loan 2960-BR)             farm credit to finance
US$300.0 million            agroindustrial
investments and, at the
same time, enable the
Government to contract
the supply of official
(interest rate-
controlled) credit.
Agricultural Credit         To facilitate-the             1988. In execution.
Project                     process of liberalizing
(Loan 2971-BR)             farm credit through the
US$300.0 million            introduction of a
commercial investment
credit line for farmers
while simultaneously
contracting the supply
of official (interest
rate-controlled) credit
to the agricultural
sector.



- 28 -
Table 2s PLANNED. REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
DATE               DATE               DATE
PLANNED            REVISED            ACTUAL
Identification                      --                 --                08/83
Preparation                         --                 --                12/83
Appraisal                           --                  --               04/84
Re-Appraisal                        --                 --                09/85
Loan Negotiation                   03/85               --                05/86
Board Approval                      --                 --                06/86
Loan Signature                      --                 --                07/86
Loan Effectiveness                  --                 --                09/86
Loan Closing                       06/89             06/93a/
Project Completion                 12/88             12/92
3/ At the Borrower's request, the loan closing date was extended four times to provide time to complete the technical asisane component
of the project.
Table 3: CUMULATIVE. ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ million)
FY87       FY88    FY89     FY90      FY91
Appraisal Estimate             450        490     500       500       495
Actual                         300        320     495       495      480b!
Actual as % of Estimate        66.7%      65.3%   99.0%    99.0%    97.0%
q/ Excludes US$5.0 million which has been canceled.
hk An mount of US$15. Omillon was retunied from the Special Account to the Lon Account. Tis amount would continue to be
available for disbusement against eigible expenditures for the technical asince compor.ent of the project.
Table 4: USE OF STAFF RESOURCES
STAFF INPUTS
STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE         IN STAFFWEEKS
FY84  FY85  FY86   FY87  MM8    MM8  EY9    FY9    FY92
Preparation        16.6   --    --        --    --      --     --      --    --
Appraisal          13.4  33.2  22.1    --    --         --     --      --    --
Negotiations        --    2.3   7.1    --    --         --     --      --    --
Supervision         --    --       .1   14.6  48.6   15.4   9.6    1.4   2.7
Other                -    -       -       -    -        -             12.3   --
Tota;',            30 0 5-5  29.3   14-6  48.6  ILA4  9.i   13.7   j27
I/ Until October 1991.



- 29 -
Table 5: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
THROUGH            MONTH/          NO. OF          DAYS IN        SPECIALI-    PERFORMANCE        TYPES OF
APPRAISAL            YEAR          PERSONS           FIELD          ZATION      RATING STATUS    PROBLEMS
Identification       08/83             1               5               b
10/83            1               5               b
Preparation          12/83             1               5               b
PreAppraisal         01/84             1               15              b
Appraisal            04/84             5              29            a, b, c, d
Post-Appraisal       03/84             3               10            b, d, a
08/84             3              14            a, b, d
04/85             2              20              b, e
08/85             1              10               b
Re-Appraisal         09/85             3              27             a, b, o
Follow-up            01/86             3               15            b, a. d
Supervision          07/86             3               15            b, c, d
03/87             1               5               c
07/87             3               5              b, a
09/87             6              12            b.c, f, g
12/87            5               12           b. c, h, l
01/88             1              10               b               3              (1)
03/88 +           1               5               f
04/88+ +          2               4               j
06/88             1              18               b               1
09/88+ +         1               2                j
10/88            1               2               b                1
12/88+ +         4               16             b, h.             1
06/89+            1               5               b               1
12/89+            2              10               b               2              (2)
07/90+            2               3               b               2               (2)
03/91             1               5               b               2              (2)
Specialization:         a) Financial Analyst; b) Economist; c Marketing Specialist; d) Loan Officer; e) Division Chief; fl Resouroo Planner;
g) Computer Specialist; h) Legal Specialist; I) Futures Market Specialist; j) Financial Specialist
Perforrnance Ratings:   1 = Improving; 2 - Stationary; 3 - Deteriorating; * = No rating (no formal supervision report Issued).
Types of Problems:     (11 slow progress on trade liberalization; reintroduction of wheat subsidy, due to the June-Sept. 1987 prioo freeze;
limitod administrative capacity of the implementing agency; and delays in estoblishing PROSTOCK. (2) delays in
implementation of technical assistance component (Part C).
+ - Tochnioal Assisance (Part C) component only
+ + - PROSTOCK (Part B) component only



- 30 -
Table 6: STATUS OF COVENANTS
CQgVEANT                            SUBJECT                     DEADLINE FOR                      STATUS
COMPLIANCE
Loan Aaroomont
Seotion 3.01 (d)        Exchange of views on progress achieved In    Periodic             Complied with
carrying out Agricultural Policy Program    (unspeoified
frequency)
80tion 3.02            Formulation ond Implementation of program for    None             Complied with
trade and pricing policy reform for agricultural
oomrnodities
Section 3.03            Formulation and implementation of program for    None             Complied with
gradusllv reducing budget allocations for wheat
production and consumption
Section 3.04 (a)        Program of reducing the supply of official (i..,  Annually        Complied with
Interest rate-controlled) rural credit, including  1987-90
adjustment of principal in accordance with the
OTN and limiting credit subsidies to small-scale
producers.
Section 3.04 (b)        Exchange of views on implementation of       Not later than       Complied with
agricultural credit policy                   February 28
annually
Section 3.05            Procurement                                   None                Complied with
Seotion 4.01            Proloot Accounts and Audits                  Audit reports due    Complied with
not later than four
months after the
end of fiscal year
Proloot Agrgment
Sootion 2.02            Procurement                                  None                 Complied with
Seotion 2.03            Establishment and operation of a finanoing   None                 PROSTOCK has been estabished and
facllity (PROSTOCK), not exceeding US$75                         Its regulations hove baen issued.
million, for the exclusive purpose of financing                   However, no financing from
bankers' acceptances                                              PROSTOCK has been made beoause
banks have not Issued bankers'
acceptancs ourod by storage
warrants.
Schedule to Projeot     Terms of financing for the PROSTOCK facility  None                No financing from PROSTOCK ha
Agreement                                                                                 been made because banks have not
issued bankers' acceptances seo
by storage warrants.



- 31 -
Table 7: Real Total and Atriultural GDP (CrSOOO at Constant 1980 Primc,
and Growth Rates of Real Total and Agricultugal GDP (%). 1980X90
------------------------------------------------
GROWTH               GROWTH
TOTAL     RATE   AGRICULTURE  RATE
(')                 (%)
1980    12,382     9.13       1,232     9.52
1981    11,838     4.39       1,330     7.97
1982    11,906     0.57       1,324    -0.49
1983    11,500    -3.41       1,316    -0.58
1984    12,107     5.28       1,360     3.37
1985    13,069     7.95       1,496     9.96
1986    14,060     7.58       1,376    -8.02
1987    14,569     3.62       1,582    14.97
1988    14,557    -0.08       1,595     0.84
1989    15,037     3.30       1,641     2.85
1990    14,430    -4.04       1,580    -3.72
Average Annual Growth Rate (%)2
1980-1985     1.09                 3.96
198z-1990     2.00                 1.10
Source:  IBGE, Diretoria do Pesquisas



Tnble : Index of Ara. Production and Yield fof Maior Agricultural Comnmodities. 1980. 1985-$190
SeaB Yea: 1980-1003
A R E A                               P R OD U C T I O N                             Y I E L D
COMMODITY -------------------------------
1980  1986  1988  1987  1988  1989 1990.    1980  1986  1988  1987  1988  1989 1990.    1980  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989 1990.
--------------------------------,---------_-----------------------__---------__-------------------------------------------------------------
Cocoa       100  132   136  136   138   137   141       100  131   144   103   117   123   117       100   99  108   77   85    90    83
Coltt.      100  103   93  I11   121   126   121        100   178   96   97   127   144   144        100  173  102   86   106   116   120
Cotton      100   97   8S    63   49    40    37        100  189   138  100   146   107   106        100  176  162  187   296   288   281
Oranges     100   116  123   83   140   153   161  >  100   131   122   136   139   163   168        100   113   99  107    99   107    98
Soybeans    100   118  106   104   120   139   131      100   121    88   112   118   169   132      100   104   84  108    99   114   101
Sugar       100  148  161   186  158   166   166        100   168  180  101   174   170   183        100   112  108  109   110   109   111
Tobacco     100   86    88   94    89   91    91        100  101   96   98   100   110   11         100  120   108  104   119   121   126
Beans       100   116   119  109  129   113   104       100   129   113   96   149   119   120       100   113   95   88   116   105  le
Casseva     100   8S    98   92    63    67    69       100   98   109   92    92   101   107        100   112  111   109   173   177   190
mail*       100  103   139  118   116   113   101       100   108  101  131   121   130   104        100  105   93  111   105   116   103
Rice        100   76    90    6    96   84    63        100   92  106   107   120   113    77        100  121   119  111   126   134   121
Wheat       100    86   126  111   111   106   104      100   157  209  226   212   206   210        100   186  187  204   191   198   202
* Estisat.
Source: I8CE, L8vaontaento Sist_matico de Producoo Agricola



- 33 -
Table 9: Real Changes in the Volume of Rudal Credit: 1980-90
RURAL CREDIT
(CzSO0O at Constant   INDEX    CHANGE
1985 Prices)    (1980-100)   (%)
---------------------------------------------------
1980             93,626,634       100    -4.36
1981             81,214,315        87   -13.26
1982             78,639,450        84    -3.17
1983             59,362,926        63   -24.51
1984             36,258,733        39   -38.92
1985             51,705,203        55    42.60
1986             77,101,814        82    49.12
1987             60,776,200        65   -21.17
1988             40,285,458        43   -33.72
1989             22,517,524        24   -44.11
1990 (a)         23,183,608        25      3.00
---------------------------------------------------
Sources: Central Bank of Brasil-DERUR (1980-87);
SEAE/MINIFAZ (1988-90)
(a) Preliminary estimates.



- 34 -
Table 10: Rurdl Credit by Purpos  aond Source of Funds, 1987-1990
tUSO  mnUltion at curnrit pnceo
.......................................................................................................................................................................
I 97                                                                                19 ,,
............... ...........................................   ..........................................
Deseription                                      Official Credst (1)                                                                  Official Credit (1)
atisaol    SaviUga                       other                                      Natiesal    Saimte                        Otber
HUi 18 (2)  Troaaur    Dapoalte   Subtotal   Credit  3)    Total                  "aI Is (2)   TreaAury   Dapoasts   Subtotal    Credit (3)                 Total
3m . de arell                           I.'a1        *,78          1.298        9.552         1.159       10.711            1.976         2,854        1.315        6.115           1.93         8.058
*4ow*@*o@9_6**.w^ . ......................... .......................... .A.@av*e* *.**.*........................................................ w*..  *@w.w6.w.o................................  .o . .. *.............eZe@@___*v^***v*
* FroActi4t                             1 ,305       4.446           365       6.136             462       6.899            1.508         1.018       1.06.        3,548            1.349        4.978
- tanatwet                                  73          1s1          933        1.147            a1i       1.428               I              *          2a4          373             sst           t0o
.Narhat                                     82      12.146             0        21229             56       2.295              357         1.808            0        1.143                9       1.171
S0W                                   8)        1.285            0        :.356             iS        1,424              357          990            0        1.387                *        1.355
AGF                                   o0          a1             0          061              0          861                0          91             0 18                         0          816
Otber Official Federal laksa                s8          123            0           11             0          181               29           45           18           SO               54          124
,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,,__,               _......       .   .............................................................................................. _._. _._
.Preduettm                                  35           29            0           64              0           64               17            5            *           31               14           as
* tuvestat                                  19           94            0          11t              0          111               10           3t            7           34               16           72
.mtarkattI                                   4            0            0            4              0            4                2            a            0            5                2            I
Other llreaia   Institutions            1.646           209            0        1.855             35        2.210            1.069           86             0       1.155              154        1.309
.................... . .... ......... . .......................................... _.__. _._..__....................... . .
. iroductias                            1.287            47            0        1,314            252       1.s4,               878            8            0         88               114        1.001
.aeeta t                                294           181            0          455             72         527              106            so            0          158               25         11
.Narketu                                   es             I            0           86             51          137               84           is            0          112               is          127
Tt"t                                     3.165        7.123        1.298       11.588         1,514       13.102            2.076         2.965        1.329        7.370            2.121       8.491
froducwtis                            2.607        4.542           365        7.514         1.094        9.608            2.402        1.022        1072         A."07            1.517        *.024
-tres_at                                328           426         933         1.755           313        2,068              251            96         256           5$3              579       1.162
- MarketItn                             I7        2.147             0        2.319            107       2.426               t43        1,837            0        2.280               is       2.305
............. .  ................... . ...... . _... . ................................... ._ .                                                                            . .          . . _._._._._.._..
_ _._ .......                                                                                          _                                                                                  . _ . _._..___ ...........----------_---_
1I9 1890
.................. . .............................................. ........................................... .........................
Desription                                        official Credat  (1)                                                                Off.cL&l Credit (1)
latioal    Savi.g                         Other                                     National    SavIMs                         other
NM   1S (2)  Treaury    Deposits   Subtotal   Credit (1)    Total                 NCR I8 (21    ?raeer=        Deposite    Sobtotal    Credit (2)            Total
. ................................ ......................................................_ . . ...__
Baow   do brael                            495       4.015           145        4.651         1.625        6.276               551        2,285            0        2.324            2.372        53.05
................................................................................................................................................................................................................... . ....... ........ __ 
. Produetioa                              292           758           89        1.119         1.489        2.600               478        1.475            0        1,954           1.1S7        4.150
.tvatee                                      9            7           41           56             52          109                1 l1                     0          113              150          264
. marketi                                  192       3,170            13        3.475             85       3.558                72          78S            0          867               24          a1
my                                   182        2.915           1s        3.120             83       3.203                72          505            0          574               24         s59
Am                                     0          355             0          555             0          323                0          282             0         293                0          292
Otber Official laderal Oathe                29            3           38           69             73          142               14            6             0          21              2i5          279
-pradutm                                    1            0            1           16             25           40               10            0            0           10               #5           45
*t rweetuu                                  14            3           37           52             49          1.2                5            *            0           11              214          224
-marting                                     a            0            0            0              0            0                0            0            0            0                0            a
Other Iicaeial  utItuttie.a               574           178            0          753            170          823           1,66P            83            0        1.751           1.114        2.086
.. ._........ . _._.................................................................... ._....           .                                                                                    _._.._____..
PrIduties,                               S0             17            0          323            *0           405           1.241            43            0        1,2I6             62         1,911
. tnestue                                 198            es            0          262             82          345             253            32            0          2it             108          396
.N rhetist                                101           S6             0          167              6          17s             172             5            0          177             381           M5
Total                                   1.08          4,188          181        5.673         1.967         7.340           2.22)        2.472             0        4.705             .748       * .449
...................................... . .................................................................................. .  _._..........
prduotim                                 613           755           90        1.45          1.392        3.050            1.729        1.520             0       3.250            2.858        *.106
t I,eetet                                 190           104           77          372            164          556             261           151            0          418             082           894
Maihetia                                   2ts       3.351            15        5.643             91        5.724              243          800            0        1°44               404       I.".
..... . ....                        _.   .,_......................... ._ .............. ___.........._ .  _. _._ ...... _..... . _. __._ .....                                             .     ...................... .
The "Gross perl  mabeeg  rate., Wr  tee  to ca*ert from Cs2 to  M88.
(1) CndIt at .etrled latareat rates.
(8) Coppolors, epplltretim  t8 emraial, beal eight "e"Itt.
(5) Credit at mrhtet tate.rt rats..
_m&a  1Ol7.88, Seall secretariat fer tleamal  AUtdair. MtIitry  of licence.
low."0. Daper7     so l7P   M4  Mesa. tiaUtr7 at Ztooc_. Finac  eA  plaming.



- 35 -
Table 11: Aver,as Nominal Rates of Protection of Selected Aaricultural Product.
at Official Exchonae Rates
NRPee (X) - Producer Level
Product                          Regions              1978-82             1983-S7              l988-90
Cotton (low grade)               Southeast               -2.0                -10.5               -36.4
Northeast               -9.2               -14.2               -80.8
Cotton (high grad.)              Southeast                -5.6               -13.2               -t8.1
Northeast              -17.4               -19.2               -86.9
Soybeans                         South                     o.6                -1.7                -9.0
Center-West             -3.7               -10.5               -16.5
Maize                            South                     0.0                -1.1                 6.0
Northoast               -0.6                -3.7               -17.5
Contor-Weot              0.0                -.l                   . 00
Rice (lobg grain)                South                     0.0                 0.0                 6.I
Rico (rainfel)                   Cent*r-Wost               0.0                 0.0                -2.9
Wheat                            South                    38.7                86.3                15.1
With taxes.
I"omostic Producer Price
tRNRP   | [0--                    ]  x 100
L Border Price Equivalent   I
A negative or positive value (indicating taxation or protection, respectively) is shown onlV when the domestio price is
either below FOB (taxation) or above CIF (protection). When the domestic price lies between the two, this indicates
neither taxation nor protection: hence, a zero value in those cases.
Sources: 1978-1988, Brazil: Agricultural Sector Review, Table 2.5. World Bank, July 1990.
1989.1990 estimates were derived based on the same methodology and data sources used In the Agricultural
Sector Roview.



- 36 -
Table 1 2: Averaoe Nominal Rates of Protection of Selected Agricultural Products
at Shadow Exchanae Rates'
NRP*  C%) - Producer Level
Product                           Regions               1978-82             1983-87              1988-90
Cotton (low grade)                Southeast               -25.2               -26.8                -68.3
Northeast               -29.2               -29.7                -64.6
Cotton (high grade)               Southeast               -33.2               -32.3                -S9.4
Northeast               -40.2               -39.3                -54.7
Soybeans                          South                   -21.8               -27.8                -40.6
Center-West             -28.6               -40.4                -42.S
Maize                             South                    -1.3                -10.9               -20.7
Northeast                 0.0               -11.1                -32.1
Center-West               0.0               -16.1                -30.0
Rico (long grain)                 South                    -3.6                 -8.7                 -4.2
Rico (rainfed)                    Center-West              -8.8                 -1.8               -18.4
Wheat                             South                    19.9                 13.8                  6.0
Without taxes.
Domestic Producer Price
" NRP       _        _        _    1x 100
Border Price Equivalent   _
A negative or positive value (indicating taxation or protection. respectivelv) is shown only when the domestic price is
either below FOB (taxation) or above CIF (protectioni. When the domestic price lies between the two, this indicates
neither taxation nor protection; hence, a zero value in those cases.
'*  1989-90 0%
Sources: 1978-1988, Brazil: Agricultural Sector Review, Table 213, World Bank, July 1990.
1989-1990 estimates were derived based on the same methodology and data sources used in the Agricultral
Sector Review.



- 37 -
Table 13: Averaoe Effective Rates of Protection of Selected
Aaricultural Products Mt Official Exchango Rates
ERPs* (X) - Producer Levol
Product                        Regions              1978-82            1993-87            1988-90
Cotton (low grade)             Southeast               -7.4              -16.5              -46.6
Northeast             -24.6              -24.8               -6.3
Cotton (high grade)            Southeast              -11.2               -1.0              -48.4
Northeast             -40.0              -32.6              -47.4
Soybeans                       South                  -16.6               -9.7              -19.C
Conter-West           -24.2              -12.6              -20.6
Maize                          South                  -21.2               -9.9              -68.6
North-est              -8.6               -8.7               -7.1
Center-West           -19.7              -19.8              -77.3
RICeO (long grain)             South                   -860               -5.4               -4.6
RIco (rainfed)                 Center-West            -30.8              -24.7              -21.6
Wheat                          South                   27.8               26.7               -6.6
With taxes
Yelue Added at Producer Prices
..ERP wI.. . ..-.-                       x 1 00
Value Added at Border Prices
Sources: 1978-88, Brazil: Agricultural Sector Reviow, Tables 8.2.13 to 8.2.36, World Bank, July 1990.
1989-90 estimates were derived based on the same methodology and data sources usod In the Agricultural
Sector Review.



- 38 -
Table 14: Averaoe Effective Rates of Protection of Selected
Agricultural Products at Shadow Exchancae Rates
ERP* (%) - Producer Lovol
Product                       Regions             1978-82            1983-87            1988-90
Cotton (low grado)            Southosst             -31.4              -25.7              -65.6
Northeast            -46.1              -44.7              -36.8
Cotton (high grade)           Southoest             -39.3              -32.6              -6.7
Northeast            -64.8              -64.0              -66.1
Soybeons                       South                -19.3              -18.6              -63.7
Center-West          -33.6              -a7.9              -69.1
Malize                         South                -11.9               -8.3              -70.3
Northeast             -4.3               -9.2              -40.8
Center-West          -16.8              -42.6              -94.9
Rice (long grain)              South                 -6.7               -0.0               -1.3
Rice (tainted)                 Center-West           -30.2              -3.9              -12.1
Wheat                          South                  14.6               6.8              -29.9
-----_----_-- -----------------------------__ ____ ___----------------           _-
* Without taxes
Value Added at Producer Prices
*ERP m                     .        .   x 100
Value Added at Border Prices
Sources: 1978-88, Brazil: Agricultural Sector Reviw, Tables 8.2.13 to 8.2.36, World Bank, July 1990.
1989-90 estimates were derived based on the same methodology and data sources used in the Agricultural
Seator Review.



Tabe 15: Production. bnworts nd Exwe of Cotton, Rice. Maiza and Soiban. 1986S1990
(000 tons)
Proditic                                   lmort.                                             Epaorts
I19S    1986    1987    1986    1989   I10         1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990       1985    19686   198?    1988    199    1990
Cotton      968.8   793.4   633.4   863.6   709.3   665.7       20.5    67.4    30.0    81.0   130.0   100.0       86.6    36.6   174.0    35.0   160.0   110.0
RicL       81760.0  9813.0  10678.0 11762.2 11092.0  7967.6    500.0  2074.0   235.0   190.0   200.0   700.0        5.0     6.0      5.0    10.0    10.0     0.0
lanis     21173.9 20CQ4.1 26758.3 25223.6 26266.8 22164.0      262.1  2423.6   871.2    15.0   154.9  1000.0        0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Soybean
(grain)  18211.0 13997.0 17072.0 18127.0 23929.2 20101.3      378.0   340.0   450.0    62.0    63.0      0.0    3456.0  1193.0  3003.0  2611.0  4585.0  4000.0
Soyboan                                                                                                                                                              '.0
(oi l)   2564.0  2319.0  2618.0  2576.0  3014.0  2829.0        46.0   159.0    59.0    55.0    20.0      0.0     924.0   439.0   986.0   653.0   857.0   800.0
Source: bUional Supply Company (GM).



- 41 -
ANNX 1
LIST OF THE STUDIES CONTRACTED UNDER LOAN 2727-BR.
PART C ITechnical Assistancel
- Development of an Objective System for Forecasting and Monitoring
Agricultural Harvests
- Analyses of Government Intervention Systems in Agricultural Markets
- Transport and Warehousing of Agricultural Products
- Integration of Brazil'l Agricultural Policies in the Context of
International Agricultural Policies
- Commercialization: A Reform Proposal on Warehousing Services
- Development of Credit Instruments for Agricultural Commercialization
- The Effects of Macroeconomic Policies on Brazilian Agriculture
- Analysis of the Brazilian Wheat Policy, Comparison with other Products and
Alternative Proposals
- Savings Mobilization, Capital Formation and Financial Markets in Brazil
- The Problem of Losses of Agricultural Products
- Agricultural Price Distortions and Prospects for Competitive Integration in
the Agro-industrial System
- A Critical Review of IBRD's Report "Agricultural Sector Review Policy and
Prospects" and "Irrigation Subsector Review"
- Evaluation of the Results of Reform Proposals in the Areas of Futures
Markets, Warrants and Warehousing
- Evaluation of the Results of Retorm Proposals in the Areas of
Liberalization and Marketing, Trade Regulation. and Information
- Proposal on Agricultural Policies for the 1990e.
- Distribution of Agricultural Prices and the Competitive Integration in the
Agro-Industrial System
- Rural Credit in Brazil: Impact on Production and Agricultural Marketing
- Training on Futures Markets



- 43 -
AmX 2
Page 1 of 3
SUMNARY OF SELECTED STUDIES COMPLETED UNDER LOAN 2727-BR. PART C
Financial Intermediation. Caoital Formation and Teghnical Innovation in
Brazilian Aariculture
(Prepared by the Federal University of Ceara and the Luiz de Quoiroz
Foundation of Agrarian Studies, Sao Paulo University, School of Agriculture;
December 1990).
Three separate papers were prepared to cover this subject.   The first
discussed the methodology and the basic data. Based on interviews with
agricultural producers, bankers and cooperative managers, the study collected
information on employment, machinery, size of productive installations and
cultivation areas. The second paper dealt with the three agricultural regions
in the North-Easts Caninde, Cruz dar Almas and Petrolina.  The third paper
analyzed the agricultural regions of Rio Grande de Sul: Carazinho and Lajeado.
These studies addresaed issues regarding the market for riral credit, the
capital formation process, and the process of technical innovation. In
general, the studies assessed the importance of the segmentation of the
capital market which is intimately linked to the lack of development of a
banking system and is, in turn, a cause of unequal access of producers to
credit. However, with regard to the cost of credit for rural producers, the
first study found-that it was perfectly in line with the level estimated for
other Latin American countries. With regard to technological innovation, the
study foun lgnificant differences across regions which are possibly related
to the orientation of production towards market activities.
Estimatino the Transaction Costs for Rural Credit
(Prepared by the Sao Paulo University, College of Agriculture and the Luiz do
Queiroz Foundation of Agrarian Studies, December 1990).
This study concludes that the cost structure and the productive
technology of financial institutions are crucial in evaluating their
performance. The study contains estimates of lending costs incurred by
official Banks in providing credit during the period July-August 1990. There
are three main conclusions. First, The possibilivy of efficient use of non-
specialized personnel increases with divtrsification of the lending activity.
Second, lending costs are high for small farmers, producing higher interest
rates for them under a market system. Third, diversification in the jervices
provided by the financial sector is needed in order to make the use of the
physical and human resources of the sector more optimal.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
Inteorating Brazil's Acricultural Policies in a World Context
(Prepared by the Jose Bonifacio Foundation, School of Economics and Business
Administration, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, August 1990).
The purposes of this study were to critically review the proposals made
by the countries participating at the Uruguay Roundtable, and to derive che
implications for polic: making in Brazil.  The study also discussed the
options open for agricultural policy in Brazil, and identified the policy
changes required to make compatible the domestic policy with that stemming
from the new commercial agreements. In general, the study emphasizes the
importance of deregulating the agricultural sector, improving its
competitiveness and efficiency, and adopting realistic time frames. The study
also proposes a strategy for Brazil in the Uruguay Roundtable discussion.
Develooment of credit Instruments for Commercialization
(Prepared by the Jose Bonifacio Foundation, School of Economics and Business
Administration, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, August 1990)
This study analyzed the existing credit instruments for the
commercialization of agricultural products in Brazil, as well as their legal
framework. The study also attempted a critical review of similar instruments
in other countries, principally USA and Canada. One of the conclusions was
that a coordinated policy dealing with financing commercial operations has
been lacking, and that development of more instruments is essential. The
study also concludes that the existing regulatory framework is unnecessarily
complex and costly, particularly in relatizn to transactions between private
agents. The study identified several deficiancies of the prevailing
legislation which prevent a more flexible operation of the credit system for
comuercialization. The paper discusses several proposals to improve the
functioning of the credit market, particularly as regards the creation of
certificates of storage and the establishment of a bonding system. The most
important conclusion concerns the use of a proposal to develop a private
system for marketing finance through the use of commercial paper.
Caammrcialization: A Reform Proposal for Storaae Services
(Prepared by the Jose Bonifacio Foundation, School of Economics and Busintso
Administration, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, August 1990).
The effective demand for storage services has been lower than the
potential demand because of the lack of confidence of private agents in those
services. Factors negatively affecting confidence include an inadequate
institutional framework, a lack of infrastructure investment and distorted
tariff rates. Based on this diagnosis, the paper critically discusses the
legal and economic factors that have hindered the development of the market
for storage services. The main recommendations of the study are to: define
clearly the legal system for the agricultural sector and the optimal extent of
government intervention; strengthen the technical capabilities of CIBRAZEM;
encourage *kill formation in the provision of storage services; establish a
serio of uniform and negotiable financial instruments; develop adequate



-45 -NNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
systems of supervision and inspection; create a bonding symtem for credit
insurances and liberalize the tariffs for storage services.
Reducing the Losses of Graine
(Prepared by the Brazilian Association of Agricultural Planning Enterprises
(ABEPA), March 1990)
The high costs of grain losses, estimated at around US$900 million p.a.,
call for corrective policies. The warehousing system plays a decisive role in
this problem, in combination with poor inspection and classification services.
The etudy assess several alternatives regarding technical innovation and
reforms in commercialization policies, which would allow for a severe
reduction in the loss of grains. The agricultural products specifically
analyzed were rice, wheat, soy beans and beans. The training programs and
improvement in storage facilities, proposed as part of a possible grain loss
reduction project, would result in an important drop in the loss of grains and
an increase in domestic consumption.
An Evaluation of the Reform Provosals in the Areas of Trade Liberalization.
Trade Reaulations and Information
An Evaluation of the Reform ProMosals in the Areas of Future Markets, Warrants
and Warehou4ina
(Prepared by the Institute of Economic Research of the University of Sao
Paulo, October 1990)
These studies reviewed the reform proposals prepared by the five
coammercial policy working groups organized under Loan 2727-BR. The proposals
cover: a) trade libsralization; b) regulation of the external trade; c)
harvest and stock information systems; d) futures markets for agricultural
products; e) use of warrants for agricultural marketing. The achievements and
obstacles encountered in implementing these proposals, with the support of the
Bank through Loan 2727-BR, were also reviewed.



- 47 -
ANNE 3
POLICY AREAS FOR STUDIES AND TRAINING UNDER
LOAN 2727-BR PART C (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEI
fihort to Medium Term
- Taxation of Agricultural Products and Inputs
- Effects of Reduction of Tariff Reduction on Imports of Agricultural
Machinery and Inputs on Costs in the Agricultural Sector
- Study on the Evolution of Margins between Production and Consumption of
Food Products in Brazil
- Distributive Impact of Current Agricultural Policies and Proposals for
Compensatory Measures
- Logistics of Public Storage of Food in Brazil
- Reappraisal of the Methodology for Estimating Crop Harvests of CFP
- Review of Import Tariffs on Agricultural Products
- Adjustment of Instruments of Agricultural Policy to the New Macroeconomic
Policy and the Internationalization of the Brazilian Economy
- RevLow of Models for Forecasting Prices of Agricultural Products
- Influence of the New Floating Exchange Rate Policy on the Competitiveness
of Brazilian Agriculture
- Study on the Trade Integration of Countries of the Southern Cone
- Review of the Methodology for Calculating Agricultural Sector Indices
(Index of Prices Paid and Prices Received by Farmers)
LocA ZZm
- External Trade Policy, Protectionism and Competitiveness of Brazilian
Agriculture
- Agriculture and Stock Information Systems
- Price Formation in Agriculture
- Rural and Agra-industrial Credit
- Liberalization of Agricultural Marketing
- Agrr-industrial Complexes, Concentration and Agricultural Competltiveness
-  Relationships Between Technology and Employment
- Relationships Between Agrarian Policy and Labor Policy
- Measures of Agricultural Productivity
- Registry of Scientific Production
-  Impact of the Regionalization of Energy Prices and Freight
- PrivatizatLon of Public Warehouses
- Developmont of the Center-West Region
- Modernization of the Livestock Sub-sector
- Grain Losses
-  Agiculture, Environment and Agro-ecological Zoning
- Marketing Structure of Agricultural Product. and Regions



