Report No. 314a-MA
Malaysia
Appraisall of the Western Johore
Agricultura! Development Project
February 22, 1974
Irrigation and Area Development Division I
Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authoizatiom The Bank Group does not accept respon-
sibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            =       Malaysian Dollar (M$)
US$1                =       M$ 2.33 /1
M$ 1                =      US$0.4292
M$ 1 million        =       US$429,200
WEIGHTS AND IIEASURES
I acre (ac)              =       0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =       1.609 kilometer (km)
1 sq mile (sq mi)        =       640 ac
1 ton  = 2240 pound (lb) =       1000 kilograms (kg) (approx.)
ABBREVIATIONiS
AA     =  Agricultural Assistant
ADC    =  Agricultural Development Center
AO     =  Agricultural Officer
BPM    =  Bank Pertanian Malaysia (Agricultural Bank)
DID    =  Drainage and Irrigation Department
DOA    =  Department of Agriculture
FA     =  Farmers' Association
FAMA   =  Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority
FELDA  = Federal Land Development Authority
FFB    =  Fresh Fruit Bunches (Oil Palm)
FO     =  Farmers' Organization
FOA    =  Farmers' Organization Authority
GNP    =  Gross National Product
ICB    =  International Competitive Bidding
JAA    =  Junior Agricultural Assistant
MARDI  =  Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development Institute
M1PIB   = Malaysian Pineapple Industry Board
MRDC   =  Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation
ISL    = Mean Sea Level
O&M    =  Operation and Maintenance
PIMC    = Pineapple Industry Marketing Corporation
RISDA  = Rubber Industry Smallholders' Development Authority
RRIM   =  Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia
Sg     =  Sungei (River)
GLOSSARY
Kampong       = Village
Ketua Kampong = Village Head
Mukim         = Sub-district
Pengulu       = Sub-district Chief
Sungei        = Riuvr
/1 From June 21, 1973, the Malaysian dollar has floated in relation to
the US dollar.



9                                          NOTATION
less than half the smallest unit shown
nil or negligible
not available separately but included in total
not available
not applicable
Malaysian Fiscal Year
January 1st to December 31st
.






MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..               .............................   i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ......................................................              1
II.    BACKGROUND  .....*9....*.......*............ *.............                       1
General  ...................**...... ..................                   1
Agricultural Sector Policies  .......  .........                   .      2
Project Formulation  ....   ...                        *   ......... .. ..  ... . ... ..  3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA  .................. .............                 *.   .....      3
*General  .............   O...4...... ..............................      3
The Area  ......***********t***               .......*............        4
Climate  ................................. .. .. ..*.  * * ...........    4
9                               Topography and Soils  . ...........   ....... ..... . ...  .               4
Agricultural Production and Processing  ...........                       5
Farmers' Associations,  Extension and Credit  ......                      6
Population, Social Structure and Land Tenure    .....                     7
Replanting Schemes  .. .......... .  ............ .* ..                   8
Transportation  ......   .........                 ... . ...  ......  .   8
IV.    THE PROJECT  ...........******s**....... *.*.....                                 9
General Description  ... ...... .. ...................                    9
Project Works  ...... .                ...............................    9
Engineering  ...............                      .........              11
Implementation Schedule  ................. ...                           11
Cost Estimates  ............ , ............                              12
Financing  ............ ,...    ........4..                              13
Procurement ...... ..... * ........  13
Disbursements .              ....   .           .............  14
Accounts and Audits  . .........    .. * . .......    14
Environmental Effects of the Project  .............    14
This  report is based on the findings  of an appraisal mission,  composed of
Messrs. H. J. Tennent, P. W. Whitford (Bank) and R. Shepherd (Consultant).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............... . 4 .  ..  15
Project Management and Coordination ...............  15
The Agricultural Development Plan     ................   16
Agricultural Supporting Services .......... ....    17
Training ..............*...*...*.*.*.*...*.*....*.*...*.*.*.*.*.*.  19
Land Title Conversion ............................  19
Operation and Maintenance ........... . .............   19
Recovery  of  Costs   . .......................... ..  .  .   .  20
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME .........  20
Marketing  and  Prices   ......... . .    ..................... ........ .  21
Farm Income  ................... . ...................  22
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...- ....o ...... o ..........  23
VIII,   RECOMMENDATIONS ......... .................................. ....  24
ANNEXES
1.  Climatic Data
2.  Soils
3.  Agriculture
4.  Social Structure
5.  The Project Works
6.  Processing Plants
7.  Equipment List
8.  Cost Estimates
9.  Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
10.  Agricultural Organizations
11.  Agricultural Staff and Training
12.   Government Revenues and Expenditures
13.  Marketing and Prices
14.   Crop Budgets and Farm Income
15.  Economic Analysis
CHARTS
7989     Construction Schedule
7988     Organization Chart
MAPS
10695    Soil Map
10691    Plan of Drainage Works
10692    Typical Layout of Internal Drainage System
10693    Present Land Use
10694    Proposed Land Use in 30 Years



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The proposed project is the first large scale integrated agricul-
tural and engineering scheme to raise incomes of existing tree crop small-
holders in Peninsular Malaysia. Several drainage schemes have been com-
pleted in the past along the West Coast of Johore, but none has included
sufficient agricultural supporting services. The Government's new economic
policy aims to increase income and employment opportunities of the unemployed
and underemployed. Previous efforts have concentrated on land settlement
and paddy schemes. This project would directly benefit rural coconut and
rubber smallholders by providing drainage and diversifying from rubber into
oil palm as well as inter-cropping coconuts with other crops. Moreover, the
project would increase the cultivated area by more than 50,000 ac and enable
planting of remunerative cash crops on peat soils.
ii.       The project, covering 330,000 ac, consists of (a) a coastal
enbankment to prevent salt water intrusion; (b) improvements to existing
river ehannels and drains, and provision of new drains to improve drainage
conditions and open up new land; (c) provision of new feeder and on-farm
drains and roads; (d) agricultural development centers, agricultural
headquarters and experimental stations; (e) processing plants for crops; and
(f) equipment for agricultural development as well as operation and mainten-
ance.  Funds would also be provided under the project to finance feasibility
studies for a second phase.
iii.      Total costs of the proposed project are US$100 million (M$ 233 mil-
lion). The Bank proposes to finance the foreign exchange component, which
is estimated to be US$45 million (M$ 105 million) or 45% of total cost. Civil
works contracts (US$36.8 million) and equipment contracts (US$4.8 million)
would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Agricultural buildings and processing plants (US$3.1 mil-
lion) would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding as they are
small and scattered. Feeder drains (US$6.2 million), which are individually
very small and are scattered in space and time would be carried out through
rural works contracts at fixed unit rates set annually by Government.
Physical and price contingencies of US$30.9 million (M$ 72.0 million) are
included. Costs of engineering and supervision by the Drainage and Irrigation
Department, replanting, operation and maintenance, and agricultural services
during construction have been included in the project cost. Construction is
scheduled to take five years.
iv.       A Special Division would be established within the Ministry of
Agriculture to direct and coordinate the activities of all the Government
agencies concerned with the project. The establishment of this Division
would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
0



- ii -
v.        The economic rate of return of the proposed project is 15%.  Some
200,000 rural smallholders, made up of about 30,000 farm families, would
benefit from the project. Average incomes per farm throughout the area
would increase irom M$ 2,100 per year to M$ 3,700 in 1983 and M$ 4,800
in 2003.
vi.       This would be the eighth agricultural or forestry project financed
by the Bank in Malaysia. Previous land settlement projects include three
loans for the Jengka Triangle Program (Loans 533-MA, US$14.0 million; 672-MA
US$13.0 million; and 855-MA US$25.0 million) approved in 1968, 1970 and
1973. The other projects are: a forestry project (Loan 673-MA US$8.5 mil-
lion, 1970) and two irrigation projects - Muda (Loan 434 MA US$45 million,
1966) and Kemubu (Loan 500-MA, US$10.0 million, 1967). All projects are
progressing satisfactorily. The Johore Land Settlement Project was nego-
tiated and approved in February 1974.
vii.      Subject to appropriate assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank Loan of US$45 million for a term of 25 years with six years grace.
The borrower would be the Federation of Malaysia.



MALAYSIA
APPRAISAL OF THE WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Malaysia has requested Bank assistance in
financing the construction of the Western Johore Agricultural Development
Project, which consists of drainage works, coastal embankments and supporting
agricultural services. This would be the eighth Bank Group operation in
support of agricultural development in Malaysia.
1.02      The project was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
which visited Malaysia in July/August, 1973, comprising Messrs. H.J. Tennent,
P.W. Whitford (Bank), and R. Shepherd (Consultant) and was assisted by
Mr. Affifudin bin Haji Omar (Consultant) in the field.
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      While Malaysia covers about 128,000 square miles, less than
one-fourth of Peninsular Malaysia and only about 3% of Sarawak and Sabah
are under cultivation. Tropical rain forest covers most of the remaining
area. The climate is characterized by uniformly warm to hot temperatures
and abundant rainfall.
2.02      Population in 1972 was estimated at 11.4 million, and growing
at 2.7% a year. About 85% of the people live in Peninsular Malaysia with
the highest densities on the coastal strip and foothills of the west coast
and in the south. Malays account for about 53% of the population, Chinese
35%, Indians 11% and others 1%.
2.03      The economy is export-oriented.  In 1972, exports accounted for
almost 40% of GNP, principally rubber, US$558 million, tin, US$397 million,
timber, US$372 million and palm oil, US$155 million. Real GNP at market
prices grew at an average yearly rate of 6% during the last decade and
amounted to about US$5.7 billion in 1972. Average real GNP per capita,
which grew at about 3.0% yearly during the 1960s, was about US$400 in
Malaysia in 1970, but much less in the rural areas. During the 1960s,
consumer prices rose by about 1% yearly on the average. During 1972-73,
however, price increases accelerated to about 5% yearly, mainly as a
result of sharp increases in import prices. Further rapid inflation and
increase in export prices occurred at the end of 1973.



-2-
2.04      Wide disparities in income and ownership of assets reflect ethnic
imbalances. Malays have lower incomes than non-Malays. Much of this income
imbalance arises because nearly 80% of Malay employment is in the rural
sector compared with slightly more than 50% for the non-Malay. But even
within the rural sector, Malay incomes are generally much lower. More than
half of the total Malay labor force is engaged in traditional low income
smallholder agriculture compared to 14% of the non-Malay labor force. In
the rubber smallholder sector, Malays outnumber non-Malays by 2 to 1. The
average size of non-Malay holdings of 8.3 acres is almost twice that of
Malays. The dissatisfaction with the distribution of benefits of economic
growth and with growing racial income inequalities provides the basis for
the New Economic Policy. Two of the major aims of this policy which are
expressed in the Second Malaysian Plan 1971-75 are: (a) to reduce poverty
by raising income levels and increasing employment opportunities for all
Malaysians, irrespective of race; and (b) to accelerate the process of
restructuring Malaysian society to correct economic imbalances so as to
reduce, and eventually eliminate, the identification of race with economic
function. One of the results of the policy is the increasing attention
given to raising rural incomes, especially those of smallholders.
Agricultural Sector Policies
2.05      The agricultural sector holds a pre-eminent position in the
Malaysian economy.  In 1972 it generated around 30% of gross domestic
product, provided employment for over 50% of the economically active
population and accounted for about 60% of Malaysia's foreign exchange
earnings. Expansion of rubber exports in the 1960's, in the face of
declining prices, was achieved by large gains in productivity. At the
same time, crop diversification, mainly to oil palm, was vigorously encour-
aged and has resulted in Malaysia becoming the world's largest producer of
palm oil. Rice production has been increased by half through the provision
of irrigation, and Malaysia is now nearing self-sufficiency in rice.
Malaysia is second only to Taiwan as an exporter of pineapple but is
finding it increasingly difficult to maintain her share of the market
(para 6.07). Other major crops, such as coconut, coffee, cocoa, fruits
and vegetables, are grown mainly for internal consumption.
2.06      The agricultural population includes some of the most economically
and socially depressed sectors of the Malaysian community. Coconut and
rubber smallholders are particularly depressed. Government's major agri-
cultural policy thrust has been to develop new land for settlement of
landless laborers and marginal farmers. Related programs have been mainly
carried out by the Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA) and Bank
finance has assisted several major projects, namely: Jengka I (Loan 533-MA);
Jengka II (Loan 672-MA); Jengka III (Loan 885-MA); and Johore Tenggara
approved in February 1974. Other land settlement programs for marginal
smallholders are being undertaken by the Rubber Industry Smallholders Devel-
opment Authority (RISDA). This, however, takes time and cannot alone alleviate
rural poverty throughout Malaysia.  Government policy has therefore tackled
two other major sectoral programs:



_                                       - 3-
(a)  Paddy Farming.  Irrigation systems have been constructed
for a number of major smallholder paddy producing areas.
One of these was the Muda Irrigation Project (Loan 434-MA),
which has been notably successful in introducing double-cropping
and improving yields. Another major paddy project is the Kemubu
Irrigation Project (Loan 500-MA). The successful programs for
extension and credit development on these projects provide
a useful model for the present project;
(b)  Smallholder Development. The remaining major need
is for physical infrastructure and agricultural sup-
porting services to improve incomes on existing
smallholdings. Efforts in the past have concentrated
on infrastructure, such as drainage (para 3.01), but
the proposed project would be the first large-scale,
integrated project to assist small rubber, coconut,
and pineapple growers. The present family income in
this area is about M$ 1,800 per annum, which puts these
smallholders in the lowest 25% of the income scale in
Malaysia.
2.07      Another basic concern of the Government has been diversification
away from rubber.  The proposed project provides for this diversification out
of rubber into oil palm, as well as helping the relatively worse off coconut
growers to plant with additional crops.
Project Formulation
2.08      Various drainage schemes have been completed in the Western
Johore region over the past decades (para 3.01). In 1970, however, the
Government decided that the major investments needed to improve and complete
the drainage of Western Johore should be accompanied by vigorous efforts in
extension, credit, processing and marketing, if worthwhile improvements in
farm incomes were to be obtained. A project covering 930,000 ac was
identified by the Bank's Sector Survey Mission in 1970 as having high
priority. Following a preparation mission in February 1973, it was decided
that the southern part of this area covering 330,000 ac should be developed
as a first phase. Accordingly, a feasibility report was prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture. This report formed the basis for Bank appraisal
of the proposed project.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The proposed project is situated on the west coast of the State
of Johore in the southwest of Peninsular Malaysia (Map 10691).  Late in
the last century the flat coastal land was opened up by settlers in a
haphazard fashion. These early settlers constructed drains and isolated



-4-                                                0
coastal bunds to protect their properties. Gradually, the whole area
was opened up and extended inland, overloading the drains. Starting in
1938 and continuing intermittently to 1967 the Drainage and Irrigation
Department (DID) has designed and built drainage and salt water exclusion
schemes along the coast from Muar to Sg 1/ Pinggan covering a total area of
220,000 ac. Coastal embankments are included in the project (para 4.02)
because the land south of Sg Pinggan still suffers from salt water intrusion
and poor drainage.
3.02      In the northern part of the project area, there are three conti-
guous drainage schemes (Tampok, Rengit and Sg Pinggan) covering about
90,000 ac. The coastal embankment and tidal control gates are in good con-
dition and are well maintained by DID. Continuing development of the hinter-
land in recent years, however, has rendered the main drains inadequate.
There are large areas of peat swamps in the hinterland, which also require
drainage. The project is designed to remedy this situation through suitable
improvement works (paras 4.01 and 4.02).
The Area
3.03      The current project covers a gross area of about 330,000 ac, of
which about 195,000 ac are cropped at present. A second stage project of
about 450,000 ac has also been partially prepared (para 4.06).  The project
extends from Parit Botak in the north to Tanjong Piai in the south, a distance
of 48 miles, and covers the coastal plain which varies in width from 4 miles
in the extreme south to 16 miles in the north (Map 10691). The project area
extends over four administrative districts (Batu Pahat, Pontian, Kluang and
Johore Bahru) and contains 15 subdistricts, known as mukims, and parts of
three others. There are four small towns in the area (Kukup, Pontian Kechil,
Benut and Rengit) each with less than 10,000 people. Batu Pahat and Kulai
are bigger towns of 25,000 people adjacent to the area.
Climate
3.04      The climate is tropical and monsoonal.  There is little
difference in temperature throughout the year, day or night, and maximum
variations are between 72'F and 95*F with relative humidity about 85%.
Rainfall is heaviest in the inter-monsoon periods (April/May and October/
November), but there are rarely completely dry months. Rainfall is about
100 in per annum. Annex 1 contains climatic data. The climate is ideal
for the tree crops grown in the area without need for irrigation.
Topography and Soils
3.05      The project area runs in a south-westerly direction following
the coastal plain between the foothills and the coastal mangrove swamps.
Land levels vary from 4 ft above Mean Sea Level (MSL) at the coast to
1/  Sg = Sungei - Malay word for River.



-5-
33 ft above MSL at the foothills. Generally there is an even rate of
rise between coast and foothills. Several small rivers flow through the
area.
3.06      Land capacity was carefully considered in projecting the future
cropping pattern (para 5.05). Soil surveys have been undertaken and mapped
on a 1:25,000 scale. The soils are divided into those developed over
coastal marine deposits, which gradually have formed into fertile clays,
the riverine alluvial deposits of very heavy texture near the rivers and
the peat (organic deposits) filling the gap between the sedentary soils
and the marine deposits. Some soils with acid-sulphate characteristics
are interspersed between the peats and the coastal deposits and around the
estuaries of rivers and creeks. The soils of the project area are described
in Annex 2 and shown in Map 10695. The heavy clay soils are well suited to
certain tree crops while peat soils, when adequately drained and fertilized,
are well suited to annual crops.
Agricultural Production and Processing
3.07      The main crops grown in the area at present are rubber (87,000 ac),
coconut (53,000 ac), pineapple (35,000 ac) and mixed crops (20,000 ac), such
as vegetables, fruit, cocoa and coffee. In addition, there are about
137,000 ac of uncultivated land in the area. These include mangrove and
peat swamps, urban areas, roads and drains.  There are two large pineapple
estates (7,000 ac each) and a few small rubber estates in the project area,
the remainder of the cropped land being smallholdings (average 10 ac).
Improved yields and changes in cropping pattern cannot be achieved without
further investments in drainage and agricultural inputs (para 4.01).
3.08      Rubber is presently the dominant crop, although yields are poor
(550 lbs/ac) as the soils (particularly those which are acid-sulphate) are
not well suited to this crop. Processing facilities for rubber are adequate
in the area, but quality of sheet rubber is generally low, due to dirt
contamination and exposure to sunlight. About 20% of the area consists of
pre-1941 trees, which are at the end of their economic life, and 20% is
immature. The balance of the area has been replanted since 1952, but trees
are of varying quality. Extension services as well as research and develop-
ment for rubber are provided by RISDA. The importance of rubber would de-
cline in the project through diversification mainly into oil palm (para 5.05).
3.09      Coconuts are the next most important crop in the area.  They are
mainly grown on marine deposits, which are suitable soils for this crop.
Yields are low (440 lbs/ac) due to palm age, poor husbandry and lack of
on-farm drainage. Processing of copra is in the hands of the private sector
and is adequate. At present the farmers receive reduced prices for their
copra due to lack of on-farm drying facilities. Although most palms are
between 25 and 40 years old, coconut replanting has only been in progress
since 1963. Extension services for coconut are provided by the Department
of Agriculture (DOA) and these would be improved under the project (para 5.09).



-6-
3.10      Intercropped with coconuts at present, there are about 4,000 ac
of bananas, 3,500 ac of coffee (Liberica variety) and 2,000 ac of cocoa.
It is Government policy to encourage this diversification of crops in
coconut smallholdings, since copra alone gives a very low income. The
small amount of cocoa grown is processed in the area. Several small units
for coffee processing exist in the area. The coffee is a variety used
locally only. Bananas are well suited to inter cropping with coconuts and
the bulk of the crop is exported to Singapore. Extension services for all
inter crops are provided by DOA. Intercropping would be expanded under the
project (para 5.05).
3.11      Pineapple cultivation occupies 11% of the project area and is
almost entirely on peat soils, suited to this crop. The present variety,
however, has deep eyes, small fruit size and a poor canning shape, resulting
in only 15% recovery at the canneries. The 85% waste is passed into drains
thus adversely affecting the environment (para 4.16). Research is proceeding
into improved varieties. Replanting, however, has been slow and 35% of
smallholdings have old uneconomic plants. At present canneries pay a fixed
price for pineapples and grade or reject (almost 15%) fruit at the cannery.
Greater incentive to grow better-sized and shaped fruit would be provided
by grading in the field and paying higher prices for better fruit. The
pineapple industry is regulated by the Malaysian Pineap,ple Industries Board
(MPIB). Of five canneries in the area, three are in the private sector and
two owned by Government. The project would provide for measures to increase
efficiency in the pineapple industry (para 5.07).  Annex 3 contains reports          0
on crops and the proposed agricultural development under the project.
3.12      All agricultural research and development, apart from rubber,
is the responsibility of the Malaysian Agricultural Research & Development
Institute (MARDI), which has only recently become established in the area.
MARDI's activities would be intensified under the project (para 5.13). Rubber
research is carried out by the Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM).
Farmers' Associations, Extension and Credit
3.13      Farmers' Associations (FA) have been developed in Malaysia since
1967 to bring agricultural inputs and supporting services to the farmer.
They are directed by an elected Board of local farmers and are provided with
offices, stores, warehouses and lecture rooms in centers known as Agricultural
Development Centers (ADC). They provide agricultural extension advice,
fertilizers and pesticides, credit, transport and marketing services for
produce on a commercial basis. FA's have had great success in various parts
of Malaysia (notably in the Muda Irrigation Project) in improving smallholder
production and marketing of produce. There are two FA's in the project area
at present. In June 1973, the Farmers' Organization Authority (FOA) was
established by Federal Act to integrate the work of the FA's and the agro-based
cooperatives, in newly-formed Farmers' Organizations (FO). Management staff
for the FO/FA's are provided by the DOA. The FOA is part of the Ministry of



-7-
Rural Economic Development and, under Section 10 of its Act, may declare
any area for special development a Farmers' Development Area. The FO's will
continue to operate in the same way as FA's and provide all agricultural
services required by farmers. FO's would be expanded under the project
(para 5.08).
Population, Social Structure, and Land Tenure
3.14      The population in the project area is about 200,000 persons made
up of 61% Malays, 37% Chinese and 2% Indian. Density is 520 per sq mi,
which is comparatively high for Malaysia. The rural population is 174,000
and the average family size is six. The majority of families are smallholder
farmers owning their own land. There are some tenants among pineapple
smallholders and several large private estates in the pineapple area. There
are marked differences in economic status and commercial outlook between the
Malays and Chinese. The project would aim to narrow these differences by
introducing the Malays to modern farming techniques and supplying the
necessary support services.
3.15      Each sub-district (mukim) in the area is headed by a Local Chief
(Pengulu) appointed by Government from the traditional leaders. Each
village chief (Ketua Kampong) is elected by the people of the village
and confirmed by Government. These local institutions, which have considerable
influence over the villagers, would be used to disseminate new technology
under the project.  Each village has recently formed development committees
which discuss all matters relating to the village--from family squabbles to
requests for new feeder roads or health services. Local chiefs chair sub-
district committees, which coordinate the activities and recommendations of
village committees and deal with the District Officer, the official in charge
of the District. Annex 4 describes the social structure in the project area
and how it would be used to help ensure the success of the project, particularly
in changing the cropping pattern and introducing new agronomic techniques
to the presently backward farmers (paras 5.06, 5.08 and 5.09).
3.16      The average size of holdings varies considerably but the overall
average is about 10 ac, which may be split into two or three separate
parcels. For the major crops, farm sizes are:
Area of          Average No.
Crops        Average Holding         Major Crop          of Parcels
…--------ac …- -        - …-- ---
Rubber             10.2                 8.9                 2.3
Coconut            13.3                 9.4                 2.8
Pineapple          11.7                 8.0                 1.7
In many cases the coconut or pineapple smallholder has one or two acres of
his land planted with rubber or fruit trees.



Replanting Schemes
3.17      The Government operates a number of replanting schemes for various
crops to encourage good husbandry practices and use of improved agronomic
technology. The oldest of these schemes is the Rubber Replanting Scheme
started in 1952, now operated by RISDA, and financed from a cess (export
duty) on rubber. When replanting with rubber, smallholders receive a grant
of M$ 750 per ac spread over five years. If they replant with oil palm they
receive M$ 750 per ac over two years.
3.18      A coconut replanting and rehabilitation scheme was initiated in
1963. The replanting grant amounts to M$ 500 per ac spread over two years.
Rehabilitation schemes involve cutting out and replacing old palms and
interplanting with cocoa, coffee and bananas. The grant in this case is
M$ 300 per ac over two years.  These schemes are operated by the DOA, but
more effective demonstration and extension is needed and this will be
provided under the project (para 5.08).
3.19      A pineapple replanting scheme was introduced in 1971 with a grant
of M$ 400 per ac financed from the pineapple cess. Recently, to persuade
more smallholders to join the scheme, the grant was raised to M$ 650 per ac
spread over two years. MPIB operates the pineapple replanting scheme and
has begun a program to replant the whole pineapple area with the improved
"Mas Merah" variety.
3.20      Replanting grants are given partly in new planting material and
fertilizer and partly in cash. The land is regularly inspected by the agency
concerned and proper standards of weeding and on-farm drainage are required.
Unfortunately, due to staff constraints, there is insufficient sustained
follow-up after grant payments have been made; as a result, husbandry standards
decline. Under present conditions the initiative to replant generally lies
with the farmer, who approaches the agency concerned when he decides to
replant. The lack of coordination between agencies and lack of staff has,
in the past, meant that only the most progressive farmers obtain the benefits
from the schemes or use the best agronomic techniques. The project would
greatly improve this situation (para 5.08).
Transportation
3.21      There is a good system of main highways in the area, one running
along the coast and the other on the inland side of the project area with
several asphalted roads crossing the area. At present, there are several
laterite light vehicle roads following the main drains, but there is a
lack of roads at the farm level. The current method of bringing out farm
produce is the bicycle or a boat in the drains. Substantial improvements
in farm and feeder roads are needed to bring down transport costs and reduce
damage to crops and minimize delays in processing fruit crops and marketing
of perishable fruit and vegetables. The project would provide feeder roads
(para 4.01(b)).



-9-
IV. THE PROJECT
General Description
4.01      The proposed project would improve drainage facilities over
330,000 ac in Western Johore (Map 10691), including on-farm drains, roads
and agricultural supporting services. It would also provide about 29 miles
of coastal embankments with drainage outlets to prevent sea water intrusion.
The southern part of the area is at present unprotected from sea water
intrusion and has a very rudimentary drainage system. The northern part of
the area has a coastal embankment and an internal drainage system which has
become inadequate due to development of the hinterland. Agricultural
development would not only increase yields by more sustained extension work
and new agronomic techniques, but would change the cropping pattern by growing
crops best suited to specific soils within the area. Over a period of 30 years
rubber would be largely replaced by oil palm, 60,000 ac of cash crops would be
grown on presently undeveloped peat soils after drainage, and coconut areas
would be inter-planted with bananas, coffee and cocoa.   Engineering construc-
tion would require five years. The project would include feasibility studies
for a proposed second phase.
Project Works
4.02      The project works, which are described in detail in Annex 5 and
Maps 10691 and 10692, would consist of the following major items:
(a) Drainage Works
(l) A coastal embankment about 10 ft top width
and 5 ft high and 29 miles long to prevent
salt water intrusion would be built along
the coast between Sg Sanglang and Tanjong
Piai. About 20 reinforced concrete tidal control
structures would be constructed along the
embankment;
(ii) 36 miles of river channels would be improved
and 68 miles of new main and lateral drains
excavated. Lateral drains would be constructed at
half-mile intervals;
(iii) In the southern tip of the area, where there
is no hinterland, 32 miles of existing drains
would be widened and deepened. In the existing
drainage schemes, where Rengit and Tampok main
drains would be converted into "high level"
drains to drain only the hinterland, new main
drains (collector drains) would be  dug on either
side of these "high level" drains to take care
of drainage of the land previously drained by



- 10 -
Rengit and Tampok main drains. Four new drainage
control gates would be built at the coastal
embankment;
(iv)  150 miles of new drains would be excavated to
drain the peat soils;
(v)  On the Sg Benut and Sg Pontian Besar, because
of the high flash flood flows, small retention
reservoirs would be built covering not more
than 2,000 ac, to mitigate flooding following
heavy rains; and
(vi)  New feeder drains at about 220 yd intervals
would be dug throughout the area to convey run-
off from farms to lateral and main drains. On-
farm drains, generally about 40 yd apart for
tree crops, would be dug by farmers under the
guidance of the extension services.
(b)  Roads
10 ft wide feeder roads of laterite would be
constructed alongside all lateral drains, both new and
existing, at half-mile intervals.  Asphalted roads
would be built along the main drains. Bridges would be
built to ensure communications were not broken by the
new drains.
(c) Agriculture
(i)  The agricultural development plan is described
in Chapter V;
(ii)  Eight new Agricultural Development Centers (ADC)
would be built to house the Farmers' Organiza-
tions (FO's) and all extension services for
farmers;
(iii)  An agricultural center would be built as a
Project Headquarters and for use by FOA, DOA and
MARDI. A new agricultural station would be
established in the northern peat area and
improvements would be made to the existing
Parit Botak agricultural station so that it
could be used by both DOA and MARDI; and
(iv)  The project would include the processing facilities
needed during the construction phase for cocoa,
tapioca, coffee, and groundnuts.  These are listed                     0
in Annex 6.



_ 11 -
(d) Equipment for agricultural development and for O&M
of the drainage works (Annex 7).
(e) A Feasibility Study for the second phase (para 4.06).
Engineering
4.03      Design and construction supervision would be by DID, who have had
many years of successful experience in similar work. Preliminary engineer-
ing has been completed and detailed surveys and investigations and some
designs are now in progress. The principle used in designing the drainage
system is to drain the hinterland (25 ft above MSL) directly to the sea
and to drain the low-lying coastal lands by a separate drainage system
with tidal control gates. The existing rivers would be used to drain
the hinterland and they would be improved by enlarging and straightening
their channels. In their lower reaches they would be bunded to protect
the lower land from flooding. No gates would then be needed to these
rivers. Where rivers are bunded, main, or collector drains, would be
built to drain the low land into separate compartment drainage gates.
Drainage systems are designed for a run-off of 80 cusecs per sq mi.
These figures were recently reviewed and agreed by a New Zealand hydro-
logical group currently working with the DID.
.       Implementation Schedule
4.04      The proposed construction schedule is shown in Chart 7989. DID
began construction of the coastal embankment from Sg Sanglang to Pontian
in October 1973 with their own funds and equipment, since damage by salt
water to coconuts and rubber in that area is very bad. They are also
preparing final designs and tender documents for work in the Kukup "basin"
area (the southern part of the area, which is in the worst condition) so
tenders can be called before the end of 1973 with a view to letting the first
contract as soon as the loan is approved. Tender documents and bids would
be prepared in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. The construction phase
of the project would take five years.
4.05      The agricultural development and processing schedule is shown
in Annex 3. The full development would take 30 years, but more intensive
and sustained agricultural extension would commence in the second year
of project construction. The recent high prices for rubber may cause some
delay in crop conversion, but since the soils are so unsuited for this crop,
any delay is not likely to be serious. The build-up of new crops and
production is shown in the Annex together with the timing for new processing
facilities throughout the development period. The Government would ensure
that the necessary processing plants would be constructed throughout the
period of project development after completion of the project (Section 4.08
of the Agreement).
_        4.06       Ministry of Agriculture staff would prepare a feasibility study
for a similar second stage project of about 450,000 ac by the third year
of current project implementation. This project has already been identified
(para 2.08).



-12-
Cost Estimates
4.07      Total project costs are estimated to be US$100 million, of which
the foreign exchange component for the project is US$45 million or 45% of
total project cost.
4.08      Detailed cost estimates are presented in Annex 8 and summarized
below:
Foreign  Local   Total   Foreign  Local   Total        % Foreign
------M$ Million ------   -----US$ Million------       Currency
Coastal Bunds          2.5      2.4      4.9      1.0      1.1      2.1 1     50
'Drainage Works       22.9      24.8    47.7      9.4      11.0    20.4/L-'    50
Feeder Drains          2.2      12.3    14.5      0.9      5.3      6.2       15
Structures            12.4      10.8    23.2      5.6      4.6    10.2        55
Roads                  5.7      7.1    12.8       2.5      3.0      5.5       45
Impounding Dams and
Reservoirs            6.0      4.0    10.0      2.6       1.6      4.2       60
Buildings and
Processing Plants    2.7        4.6     7.3      1.1      2.0      3.1       45
Equipment             11.2       _      11.2      4.8       -       4.8      100
Sub-total        65.6     66.0   131.6    27.9       28.6    56.5        50     *
Engineering            1.0      9.0     10.0      0.4      3.8      4.2       10
Cost of Replanting
during Construction   -       8.1       8.1      -        3.7      3.7        -
O&M and Agricultural
Services during
Construction          2.0     9.3      11.3     0.7       4.0     4.7        15
Sub-total        68.6    92.4    161.0    29.0       40.1    69.1        42
Contingencies
Physical              9.4    10.6      20.0     4.2       4.3      8.5       50
Price                27.0    25.0      52.0    11.8      10.6    22.4        50
GRAND TOTAL    105.0   128.0    233.0    45.0        55.0   100.0        45
/1   Includes land acquisition costs, totalling US$5.6 million.
The civil works costs are based on preliminary designs and on unit prices
for similar works carried out in the area. They were updated during
negotiations to take account of latest price increases in Malaysia in
early 1974. A total price contingency of 32% is included on both local
and foreign cost items, including physical contingencies. The annual rate
of inflation during the life of the project ranges between 5% and 12% per
annum (see Annex 8, Table 4).



-13-
Financing
4.09      The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component of US$45.0
million, which is 45% of total project cost. The loan would be for 25 years
with six years grace. The Government's contribution of M$ 128 million
(US$55 million) would finance the local currency requirements and would be
met by annual budgetary allocations to the agencies involved in project
implementation.
Procurement
4.10      Contracts for drainage and coastal embankments (US$35.4 million),
individually valued at more than US$200,000, and for equipment (US$4.6 mil-
lion) would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines. It is expected that about 60% of the contracts
would be won by foreign contractors. Some urgently required works (estimated
to cost US$1.4 million) would be constructed by force account in 1974
(para 4.04). A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported
goods, or the actual custom duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Small off-the-shelf
items costing less than US$5,000 each and limited to a total of US$200,000
which are not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased
through normal government procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.
4.11      The contracts for agricultural processing plant and buildings
(US$3.1 million); which would be scattered in space and time and individ-
ually small, would not be of interest to international contractors and
would be awarded after locally advertised competitive bidding.
4.12      Feeder drains (total cost US$6.2 million), which are individually
very small, scattered in space and time and are not suitable for mechanical
excavation, would be carried out under DID through local rural works con-
tracts with village chiefs at fixed unit rates, determined annually by the
Government at competitive rates, as is now done for the maintenance of
existing schemes. This system is used in most irrigation and drainage
schemes in Malaysia and is in keeping with Government's New Economic
Policy (para 2.04). Apart from the fact that these minor works would not
interest initernational contractors, the use of local institutions would
save an estimated land acquisition cost of about US$2 million for such
drains, as farmers would donate the land required along their lot boundaries,
which usually parallel the contours. DID would ensure that correct tech-
nical requirements were met. In the event that contractors were awarded
these works, time would be lost through the need for lengthy and costly
land acquisition proceedings and payments for land acquisition would have
to be made. These procedures would provide work for and benefit the local
rural population during the development stage of the project. Assurances
were obtained that unit rates established for feeder drains in the area
would be submitted to the Bank for comment each year before they were
announced (Schedule 4 of the Agreement).



-14-
Disbursements
4.13      Disbursements would be made against:  (a) a percentage of total
expenditure on civil works; (b) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported
vehicles and equipment; (c) 100% of ex-factory cost (net of taxes) of
vehicles and equipment produced locally; and (d) 70% of imported but
locally procured vehicles and equipment. The estimated schedule of expend-
itures on the project and the semi-annual disbursement schedule are shown
in Annex 9. The calculation of Schedule I in the Loan Documents is shown
in Annex 8, Table 3. It is expected that disbursements would be complete
by June 30, 1980.
Accounts and Audits
4.14      The agencies involved in the project are all subject to normal
Government control and audit procedures. Assurances were obtained that:
(a) all project accounts would be consolidated;
(b) auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be employed to audit
these accounts annually; and
(c)  the audited project accounts, together with the auditor's
comments, would be forwarded to the Bank within six months
of the close of each financial year (Section 4.02 of the
Agreement).
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.15      Under present conditions, the indiscriminate use of broad-spectrum
pesticides, which kill harmful and beneficial organisms alike, is a matter
of some concern. These insecticides are being promoted by distributors.
Under the project, the extension workers would advise the farmers in the
correct use of insecticides. These efforts, together with a Pesticides
Act to regulate the sale of pesticides, now under parliamentary consideration,
should deal with the above problems.
4.16      Another environmental problem at present is the indiscriminate
dumping of pineapple canning wastes into streams. This results in
severe oxygen depletion in the streams concerned and their estuaries.
However, this waste is a potentially valuable resource and several
studies have shown promising uses for the material and it is expected that
the practice of dumping would cease (para 5.07). Riverine and inshore
fish and shellfish have never been prolific in this area and there is no
evidence that drainage schemes similar to the proposed project, or that
insecticides and canning wastes, have had any significant effect on
fisheries.



-15 -
4.17      The most serious public health problem in the area is malaria
(about 200 cases per year) but an eradication program is being planned
by the Government for 1974-1975. The project would assist this effort by
draining swamps.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Management and Coordination
5.01      The smallholders in the project area are now served by many
agricultural agencies. Close coordination would be necessary to carry
out the project successfully. The Government would establish the Western
Johore Agricultural Development Division under the Minister of Agriculture
to manage the project. The Division would be headed by a Project Director
whose powers over all other agencies involved with the project would be
confirmed by the Cabinet. The other organizations would act as agents of
this special Division in the project area -- DID to construct the drainage
works and later maintain them; the DOA, FOA, RISDA, and MARDI to provide
agricultural inputs; and MPIB to deal specifically with pineapples. The
agricultural organizations serving in the project are described in
Annex 10 and Chart 7988.  The Government's plans for establishment of
the Special Division and Project Director's responsibilities were discussed
at negotiations and are satisfactory. The establishment of the Division
and the appointment of a suitably qualified and experienced Project Director,
in consultation with the Bank, would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
5.02      The Project Director would have overall responsibility for the
project. His duties would include planning, the approval of budgets and
staff for all the agencies concerned, and overall direction of these
agencies in the implementation of the project. The Project Director would
be guided on policy by a Steering Committee of Federal and State senior
officials and would be advised by District Integrated Action Committees,
headed by the District officers and consisting of sub-district and village
leaders and health and public works officials.
5.03      The Project Director would have a small staff of two deputy
directors (planning and execution), a rural sociologist to advise on
methods of motivating farmers to use new techniques, a statistical group |
to monitor project progress and achievement, an industrial development
group to encourage local agro-based and other industry in the area, and
an administration section. The majority of staff would be from the various
executing agencies, who would work under the overall direction of the Proj-
ect Director. These agencies would, however, receive technical guidance
from their own headquarters. This type of organization has worked well at
Muda Irrigation Project and elsewhere in Malaysia.



- 16 -                                             E
The Agricultural Development Plan
5.04      As the drainage is improved, agricultural supporting services
would provide a sustained effort to improve agronomic techniques and
change the cropping pattern by growing.crops best suited to specific soils
within the area. An agricultural inventory of the age and quality of all
crops would be undertaken in 1973/74 to enable detailed planning of changes
in cropping pattern to proceed.
5.05      Land use would be changed as follows over the next 30 years
(Maps 10693 and 10694):
Crop                   1973               2003
…------ac…-------
Rubber                      86,500             10,000
Coconut                     53,000            53,000
Intercrops - Banana               4,000              10,000
- Coffee              3,500              10,000
- Cocoa               2,000              30,000
Pineapple                   35,000            45,000
Oil Palm                      -               60,000
Vegetables, Tapioca,
Groundnut                                     60,000
Mixed Crops                 20,000            20,000
Cropped area               194,500           248,000
Uncultivated area          136,500            83,000
Total           331,000            331,000
Annex 3 gives details of agricultural development with a report on each
crop and tables showing proposed planting schedules by crop, assumed yield
progressions and production estimates.
5.06      The large areas of the peat soils presently undeveloped, due to
lack of drainage, would be opened up. After 30 years, 60,000 ac would be
fully developed for tapioca (40,000 ac), groundnuts (10,000 ac), and
vegetables, such as cucumber, chillies, beans, tomatoes, yams and sweet
potatoes (10,000 ac). These crops would be grown on a rotational basis to
avoid disease problems. The major part of this undeveloped land is already
owned by smallholders living in the area. The balance would be allocated
by the State Director of Lands to farmers residing in the project area,
giving priority to: (a) landless people, (b) young farmers, and (c) farmers
with less than 4 ac. Assurances were obtained that a land allocation scheme
based on the above, would be prepared by the State within one year of loan
signing (Section 4.03 of the Agreement).



- 17 -
5.07      Special measures would be taken in the pineapple industry by MPIB
to provide better incentives to farmers, improve fruit quality, and lower
production costs. Specifically the foLlowing measures would be taken:
(a) Grading and selection would be introduced at farm collection
centers with a new price schedule to pay more for new
varieties and larger fruit better suited for canning;
(b) A replanting drive would be started to introduce better
varieties;
(c) Studies on the use of pineapple waste as cattle feed or for
other use would be intensified; and
(d) Greater use of fruit stimulants would be encouraged to
minimise seasonal crop fluctuations.
Assurances were obtained (Section 4.04 of the Agreement) that these
measures would be carried out. An intensified pineapple research and
development program would also form part of the project (para 5.13).
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.08      Farmers' Organizations.  FO's would be the key organization for
bringing agricultural supporting services to the farmers.  They would work
from Agricultural Development Centers (ADC) throughout the area. All the
other agencies concerned with agriculture would also work from the ADC's
(Chart 7988). A sufficient number of FO's, at present thought to be ten
(one per 3,000 farms), would be established throughout the area. Since
two exist, an additional eight would be required within the construction
period. FO's would provide agricultural extension, training in new agro-
nomic techniques, credit (para 5.12), farm inputs and transportation,
processing and marketing of produce. FO's would be located to fit the
pattern of sub-district boundaries and would work through the local chiefs
and village heads to obtain maximum cooperation from the smallholders
(para 3.15). The project sociologist (para 5.03) would assist in in-
tegrating the modern economic institutions, such as FO's, with the tradi-
tional village influence structure so as to maximise the effectiveness of
extension work.
5.09      DOA.  The DOA operating from the ADC's would continue its present
services in the project area, but would build up staff so that extension
services and follow-up on replanting programs for coconuts, and interplanting
with cocoa, coffee and bananas would be made more effective. DOA would
also be responsible for extension services for new crops on peat soils.
Employment of more women extension officers would facilitate expansion of
new techniques (Annex 4). DOA would establish a pest control team to carry
out contract work for the smallholders especially for cocoa.



- 18 -
5.10      RISDA.  RISDA would be directly responsible for persuading small-
holders to replant their rubber with oil palm. Rubber areas presently on
peat would be converted to cash crops (vegetables, groundnuts or taipoca)
or to pineapple. RISDA would be advised on motivation and incentives to
farmers by the rural sociologist in the Project Authority and would have
increased staff to provide better and more sustained extension services.
RISDA would provide the extension services required for oil palm would
organize the collection and transportation of fruit to oil mills. They
would be responsible for the construction of oil mills within the project
area.
5.11      MPIB.  MPIB would provide extension services to the pineapple
smallholders and would be responsible for the intensive effort to improve
the efficiency of the industry (para 5.07). The staff of MPIB extension
workers and replanting officers would be increased and MPIB would work
closely with MARDI on the demonstration of new varieties.
5.12      Credit.  The Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM), which would be
responsible for all agricultural credit within the project, would carry
out a survey of the credit needs of the farmers in the project area during
the next 12 months. FO's would act as local credit centers for the BPM.
Whilst tree crops were maturing and cash crops were being grown, farmers
would obtain subsistence credit to a maximum of M$ 70 per month per family
(the standard used by FELDA).  Production credit of about M$ 40 per ac per
annum would be available for fertilizer.  An Agricultural Credit Project,
for which BPM would be the on-lending agency, was appraised by the Bank in
September/October, 1973. This would strengthen BPM's ability to provide
credit in this and other areas.
5.13      Research.  MARDI would intensify research and development in the
project area. MARDI and DOA would work closely together in establishing
an agricultural center in Batu Pahat to serve both this project and the
proposed second phase, they would also jointly operate the Parit Botak
Station for both research, development and plant breeding. They would
strengthen activities of the existing pineapple research station at Pekan
Nanas. MARDI would establish a station on peat soils and would develop
appropriate cropping techniques for the crops to be grown on these soils.
They would prepare guidelines for the use of fertilizer and pesticides for
all crops in the area. The Development Division of MARDI would use local
smallholder farms as trial areas to develop new techniques and new varieties
after the research phase is complete and prior to full demonstration by
DOA. MARDI would intensify use of their development projects within the
area to disseminate the latest agronomic techniques. Since research by
MARDI into new pineapple varieties is essential to the success of the
project, assurances were obtained that the Government would initiate within
one year of signing of the loan, a pineapple research and development program
satisfactory to the Bank to meet the needs of the project (Section 4.05 of
the Agreement).
0



-19 -
5.14      New Planting Material.  The supply of planting materials to keep
pace with proposed development would be the responsibility of DOA and should
not present problems (Annex 3).
Training
5.15      The increases in agricultural staff required by FOA, DOA, MPIB,
and RISDA would be considerable, particularly at the level of Junior Agricul-
tural Assistant (JAA), who would comprise most of the staff of the FO's and
would be the key field extension workers. Annex 11 describes the training
establishments in Malaysia and the additional numbers of staff required.
A total of nine additional agricultural officers (AO), 30 agricultural
assistants (AA) and 157 JAA's would be required by 1978. Since the Univer-
sity of Agriculture at Serdang produces 120 AO level and 350 AA level grad-
uates annually there would be little problem with senior staff. The Agri-
cultural Institutes, of which there would be six by 1975, would have an
annual output of 590 JAA level graduates by 1977, which would meet project
and other requirements. Loan MA-599 is partly financing three of the
Agricultural Institutes. Additional strengthening of MARDI would be required
and a project is being prepared for Bank consideration, which would include
technical staff and additional physical facilities.
Land Title Conversion
5.16      Under the land taxation system, which is a State matter, each
land title specifies the crops that may be grown on the land. When a land
owner wishes to change from one crop to another he must pay a conversion fee,
which could be as high as M$ 145 for changing 5 ac of rubber to oil palm.
This fee would be a serious constraint to the project objective of convert-
ing 60,000 ac to oil palm. Assurances were obtained from both Government
and the State of Johore that crop conversion fees on land titles would be
deferred for five years from planting, by which time the new crops would be
income-producing (Section 4.06 of the Agreement).
Operation and Maintenance
5.17      DID would be responsible for operation and maintenance (O&M)
of all drainage works down to feeder drains and roads. Farmers would be
responsible for on-farm drains. During construction, DID would continue to
operate and maintain existing schemes in the area and would take over the
new works as completed. No budgetary allocation problem is expected. The
farmers would have to complete and maintain their on-farm drains as a condi-
tion of replanting grants. The extension workers of the FO's would also
be required to convince farmers of the value to themselves of correctly
performing this work. The construction of the new feeder drains would make
the farmer's task much simpler, since his on-farm drains would not be longer
than 100 yd (map 10692). Particular attention would be paid to water level
control in acid-sulphate soil areas. During wet periods, drains would be
flushed out but in dry periods water level would be kept up by the water
control structures (Annex 2).



- 20 -
5.18      The cost of O&M is estimated to be about US$4.30 (M$ 10.00) per ac.
The present drainage rate on completed schemes collected in the State of
Johore is US$2.60 (M$ 6.00) per ac and this would have to be raised to
cover the full cost of O&M by the time the replanted tree crops had reached
maturity and increased farmer's income. In areas where there is at present
no drainage rate, Johore State would commence collection of a rate within
two years of completion of works in each section of the project area, and
by the beginning of the fifth year after introduction of the rate, it would
be raised to cover at least the full cost of O&M. Where there is an exist-
ing rate, five years would be given to reach full rate. Assurances to this
effect have been obtained (Section 4.07 of the Agreement).
Recovery of Costs
5.19      The project beneficiaries would not be required to repay directly
the capital costs of the project. This is a deliberate policy of Government
related to two facts: (i) incomes in the area would remain below the
projected national average rural income, even after full development of
the project (para 6.10), and (ii) revenues from export duties, reduced pine-
apple subsidies and land taxes accruing to the Government as a result of
the project would be sufficient to cover the investment costs and incremental
expenditures incurred for agricultural extension services throughout the life
of the project.  A cumulative surplus (excluding interest) of about M$ 15 mil-
lion would be obtained at the end of the project (Annex 12) and indirect
growth effects of the project on the economy would yield additional revenues.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOME
6.01      Construction of the drainage works would improve crop yields
and allow the cultivated area to be expanded. Extension work under the
project would be directed at replacing unsuitable crops with crops suited
to the soils of the area and intercropping to improve the incomes of
coconut smallholders.
6.02      Production statistics with and without the project are presented
in Annex 3 and summarized below:
1973        1983            2003
W
With (W) or Without (W)        W        W       W       W        W
the project             ----'000 tons----------- --
Rubber                     17.1    19.7   20.4       22.0      4.4
Coconut (copra)            10.5    12.0   17.4       16.1     27.7
Cocoa (dried beans)         0.02    0.8    2.0        0.7      8.1
Pineapple (fruit)         207      238    338       280      490
Oil Palm (fresh fruit
bunches)         0       5.8   68.8      31       395
Tapioca (tubers)            0        0    150         0      560



- 21 -
6.03      Cropped areas and projected yields are given in Annex 3.  In
general, estimated yields are based on levels already achieved in other
parts of Malaysia under conditions of good drainage and sound management,
with appropriate adjustments for soil type, extension effort and the status
of research. The factor used to reduce estate yields to smallholder scale
was between 30% and 50% for various crops. For annual crops on peat, for
which experience is somewhat limited, peat research station yields have
been used, with suitable adjustments. While some of the projected yield
increases are quite large, this ;Ls mainly in consequence of the present
very low yields.
Marketing and Prices
6.04      The major crops to be produced in the project area (rubber, palm
oil, pineapples and tapioca) would be for export. Copra, coffee, bananas
and miscellaneous fruits and vegetables would be marketed in Malaysia and
Singapore. In the case of cocoa, Malaysia is expected to change from a
net importer to a net exporter in the next few years.
6.05      Prices were estimated for 1983, using projections of world market
prices by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projections Department where
available. Where taxes, duties or subsidies are involved, the prices used
in economic analysis differ from those used in farm income estimation.
Projected prices for the early 1980's are shown in Annex 13.
6.06      No marketing problems are expected for rubber, copra, cocoa and
palm oil and kernel. The project area output would be only a small fraction
of national production for these crops. The increased production for
Liberica coffee can be absorbed in the local market, with possibly minor
exports. A sufficient market for bananas exists in Singapore and Johore
to absorb the output of the project area.
6.07      Pineapples present a special problem.  Malaysia is one of the
world's major exporters of canned pineapple but is starting to lose her
market share, due to revaluation of the Malaysian dollar and the diffi-
culties of producing an acceptable product from the variety presently grown.
These marketing problems will intensify as Malaysia faces an increasing EEC
tariff in her major market, the United Kingdom. Almost 90% of Malaysia's
acreage of pineapple for canning occurs in the project area and, without
the project, it is difficult to see how the industry could survive without
subsidies. With the project, yields would be markedly increased, produc-
tion costs lowered and replanting with improved varieties would increase
cannery efficiency. Under these conditions, Malaysia would be able to
continue to export at a competitive price and gradually expand her production.
The research program now being intensified and Malaysia's past history in
lowering the costs of rubber production lend confidence to this assessment.
6.08      A large expansion of tapioca production is forecast.  However,
projected exports would still be only a small fraction of world trade and
would be accommodated by expected market growth. Processing facilities
would be geared closely to market preference (presently starch). Groundnuts



- 22 -
are used at present mainly in roasted form on the domestic market. Over
the next decade, project area output would replace imports and, thereafter,
additional groundnut production would be processed into oil, replacing imports
of vegetable oils. Fruits and vegetables would be marketed in Johore and
Singapore, where increasing urbanization is reducing local production.
Further details on marketing and prices are given in Annex 13.
Farm Income
6.09      Farm income has been estimated for the following types of small-
holdings: rubber (converted to oil palm); coconut (with cocoa and bananas
as intercrops); pineapple; and annual crops on peat soils. In each case,
it was assumed that conversion of the cropping pattern would be completed
within ten years. For the first three cases, the following farm sizes were
used: the average and the upper and lower 20-percentile areas, as given
by the Ministry of Agriculture's smallholder surveys. For annual crops,
holdings of 2.5, 5 and 10 ac were used. Estimated 1983 market prices
(Annex 13) were used in this analysis. Off-farm income, which is signi-
ficant for the smaller landowners and also for the Chinese farmers, and
replanting grants were also included. All cash inputs, including land tax,
a drainage rate equal to project O&M costs, and hired labor, were deducted,
using market prices. It was estimated that hired labor would be used
wherever labor requirements per farm exceeded 450 man-days per year.
6.10      Under these assumptions, average income per farm with the project
would increase as follows:
Area (ac)    Income per Farm (M$/yr)
Year:                              1974         1983        2003
Rubber (to oil palm)                4.7   1,500        2,800       3,900
10.2   2,200        5,100       7,200
14.0   2,600       6,400        9,000
Coconut (with cocoa)                3.5   1,200        2,000       3,400
9.4   2,100        5,000       9,300
20.0   2,900        6,100       12,900
Pineapple                          11.7   2,000        2,800        3,900
Annual Crops                        2.5    -           2,300       2,800
5.0    -           3,800       4,800
10.0    -          6,200        8,000
Only the average farm size is shown for pineapple, as the economies of scale
are quite small, under projected prices. Average income per farm throughout
the project area would increase from M$ 2,100 at present to M$ 3,700 in 1983
and would remain constant at about M$ 4,800 between 1993 and 2003. At the
1970 census, the mean annual household income in Peninsular Malaysia was
M$ 3230, or about M$2500 for rural households and M$ 5200 for urban families.
Full details of farm income are given in Annex 14.



- 23 -
0
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project is in line with the objectives of the Second Malaysian
Plan and would be the first large-scale integrated project to raise incomes
of existing tree crop smallholders in Malaysia. Present per capita income
levels are generally between M$ 200 and M$ 400 per annum, putting these
farmers in the lowest 25% on the Malaysian income scale. The project would
tend to reduce rural-urban disparities and would mainly benefit Malay farmers.
7.02      Underemployment in the project area is considerable, possibly
as high as 50%, at present. With the opening up of new land and the
intensification of agriculture made possible by the project, the equiv-
alent of 12,000 full-time jobs would be created by 1983 and 24,000 by 2003.
Additional jobs would be created in processing and service industries. How-
ever, even with the project, there would be surplus labor in the area, unless
population growth rates can be greatly reduced. Therefore, all farm labor
in the project area was costed at a shadow wage rate of M$ 3/man-day
(75% of current rates for hired labor), for the purposes of economic
analysis.
7.03      The gross value of production per year from the project area
would be M$ 102.8 million in 1983, compared to M$ 52.8 million without the
project and M$ 41.6 million at present. By the year 2003, the gross value
of production would reach M$ 207.7 million, compared to M$ 62.7 million
without the project. The incremental net value of production in 1983 is
estimated at M$ 23.9 million per annum, rising to M$ 85.2 million in 2003.
All the above figures are net of duties, taxes and subsidies. Government
revenues (Annex 12) from export duties and cesses on project output would
rise by M$ 14.0 million between 1999 and 2003. Subsidies to the pineapple
industry would be reduced by M$ 18.0 million by 2003. Land taxes on the
project area total about M$ 1.8 million per year at present and would
increase as a result of the project. The drainage rate, would equal the
average 0 & M cost of the system and would therefore raise about M$ 3.0 mil-
lion from 1978 onwards.
7.04      Most of the project output would be exported:  in 1983, the fob
value of exports from the project area (including those to Singapore) would
total about M$ 131 million, and would rise to M$ 235 million in 2003.  The
value of import replacement crops, at farm-gate prices, would be M$ 14 mil-
lion in 1983 and M$ 30 million in 2003.
7.05      Under the assumptions listed in Annex 15, the economic rate of
return would be 15%. Sensitivity tests were carried out, which showed that:
(i) with labor priced at M$ 4 per day, the rate of return would drop to
14.0%; and (ii) a 15% cost over-run would not affect the project's viability
significantly.
7.06      The estimated rate of return compares favorably with possible
alternative investments in smallholder agriculture in Malaysia. The
project would create considerable additional employment and discourage



- 24 -
rural-urban drift. The increased agricultural production would have a
significant positive effect on Malaysia's balance of payments and would
contribute to the Government's policy of reducing Malaysia's dependence
on rubber by developing oil pain and other export crops on a large scale.
The project would also restore the viability of the pineapple industry,
one of Malaysia's major export earners. For these reasons, the project
would make a significant contribution to the economic growth of Malaysia
and to the furtherance of the objectives of the Second Malaysian Plan.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement on the following major points was
reached with the Government:
(a) It would ensure that the necessary agricultural
processing plants would be constructed throughout
the period of project development after the
completion of the project (para 4.05);
(b) In order to make the pineapple industry more
efficient and provide more incentives to farmers,
the MPIB would take suitable steps, including the
introduction of farm collection centers, replanting
clones of new varieties, studies on the use of
pineapple wastes and hormone stimulants, and the
introduction of appropriate price schedules (para 5.07);
(c) Collection of the crop conversion fee on land titles by
Johore State would be deferred for five years from
planting (para 5.16); and
(d) Johore State would commence collection of a drainage
rate within two years of completion of each section of
the project area, and by the beginning of the fifth year
after introduction of the rate, it would be raised to
cover at least the full cost of O&M (para 5.18).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the Loan would be:
(a) The appointment of a Project Director after
consultation with the Bank (para 5.01);
(b) The establishment of a project Division
acceptable to the Bank to integrate all
services under the project (para 5.01); and
(c) The State of Johore shall have agreed to the
relevant assurances.



- 25 -
8.03      With the indicated assurances, the proposed project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million, for a term of 25 years, including a
six-year grace period. The borrower would be the Federation of Malaysia.
February 28, 1974
5:
_r






ANNEX 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
1.   Average Monthly Rainfall (1950-65) - inches
Rain Guage Station
Sg Pontian-        Pekan      Simpang
Month         Rengit    Sg Ayer Hitam       Nanas     Rengan
January          7.80          7.80           10.00        8.64
February         6.15          7.63            8.98        6.85
March            7.59         10.83            9.76        9.43
April            9.81         10.98           11.13        9.16
May              7.59          8.45            9.69        6.43
June             7.46          7.25            7.98        6.49
July             7.28          8.73            7.78        5.29
August           7.34          8.80            9.29        5.84
September        6.92          7.83            7.85        6.86
October          9.17          9.88           10.09        9.49
November        11.80         11.53           12.64        9.76
December         7.94          9.63            9.46        8.57
TOTAL     86.85        109.34           114.65      82.81
2.   Mean Daily Temperature OF
Place
Month              Batu Pahat       Ayer Hitam       Pontian
January                 79.6             78.7            79.1
February                80.8             78.5            79.5
March                    81.7            80.6            79.8
April                   81.9             81.1            80.2
May                      81.9            81.9            80.3
June                    81.4             80.4            80.0
July                    80.9             79.9            79.7
August                  80.6             79.5            79.4
September               80.7             80.1            79.6
October                 80.7             80.5            79.6
November                80.5             80.2            79.4
December                80.1             79.4            78.9
Sources:  Feasibility Report by Ministry of Agriculture -
May 1973 based on DID Rain Guage Stations and
Malaysian Meteorological Service.






ANNEX 2
Page 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Soils
Surveys
1.        Reconnaissance soil surveys have been undertaken throughout
the project area and soil units mapped on a 1:25,000 scale. Additional
surveys were completed in 1973.  The objectives of these surveys were
to determine the soil pattern and thereby enable identification of areas
suitable for cultivation of specific crops (Map 10695).
Origins and Types of Soils
2.        Soils fall into four categories:
(I) Soils derived from marine deposits (134,900 ac);
(II)  Soils derived from mixed marine deposits and riverine
alluvium (23,200 ac);
(III) Soils derived from fresh water deposits (173,000 ac);
and
(IV) Sedentary soils on high ground (35,100 ac).
As the sedentary soils would not benefit from project drainage work,
these will not be considered further.
Soils Derived from Marine Deposits
3.        These soils are of heavy clay texture and poorly drained.  The
most recently deposited soils (locally termed Kranji series) have very
little profile differentiation and contain variable amounts of sulphate
and salts. When unprotected from sea water flooding, these saline soils
are colonized chiefly by mangrove vegetation and have neutral to alkaline
reaction associated with the high proportion of dissolved salts they
contain. Given protection from sea water ingression and adequate
drainage, toxic salts soon become leached out by rainwater percolating
through the soil profile, their physical structure improves and they
become fertile clays.
4.        The most acidic soils (known locally as Parit Botak Series)
are derived from marine and brackish water sediments containing high
0        amounts of sulphur compounds and may be classified as acid-sulphate soils.
In the waterlogged state, the sulphur compounds are reduced to sulphides.



ANNEX 2
Page  2
However, when these conditions are terminated by excessive drainage,
oxidation of the sulphides occurs to give sulphuric acid and sulphates
of iron and aluminum which are acidic in reaction and are responsible
for a sharp decline in soil pH (occasionally to below 3.0 units). These
soils possess satisfactory cation exchange capacities 1/ and are potentially
very fertile. Their physical properties are superior to those of the
younger saline soils, but subsoil structure is usually weakly developed.
This soil is generally poorly drained, the water table commonly ranging
between 18 in and 24 in depth.
5.        A less acidic soil (referred to locally as Selangor Series)
also occurs quite extensively within the project area. This soil occurs
at marginally higher levels, possesses superior physical properties and
is better drained, the water table usually being found between 24 in and
30 in depth. It has high nutrient reserves and is less acidic, topsoil
pH value normally ranging between 3.8 and 4.5 units. It is usually
underlain by an acid-sulphate horizon, often below 24 in depth. This
soil is quite prevalent along the west coast of Malaysia and is rated one
of the most fertile.
Soils Derived from Marine/Riverine Deposits
6.        A significant area of soil derived from both marine and riverine
deposits is found near rivers.  This soil (referred to locally as Briah
Series), has a clay texture but somewhat shallow topsoil and impeded
drainage. In the dry season the water table is usually between 24 in and
30 in. This soil is rich in plant nutrients and does not present acid-
sulphate problems.
Soils Derived from Fresh Water Deposits
7.        There are small areas of clays deposited in fresh water, but
the major soils of this category are peats, with organic clays and muck
soils occurring in the buffer zone between the mineral soils and peats.
The peats develop in fresh water swamps and are characterized by their
rather coarse texture, high moisture content, low density and acid
reaction. They occur extensively between the marine clays and sedentary
soils on higher terrain (25 ft above MSL). Fringing on the organic
clays and muck soils, the peats are shallow but of limited extent. Most
of the peats exceed 5 ft depth and over much of the area are 20-25 ft
deep, lying on clay which is over 5 ft above MSL. When compared with
mineral soils, peats are chemically impoverished, but possessing superior
cation exchange capacities, can readily be improved by application of
fertilizers.
1/   Ability to retain and release nutrients.



ANNEX 2
Page  3
Distribution and Area of Soils Mapped
8.        Map 10695 shows the general distribution of soils in the project
area. Briefly, the area of soils identified are as recorded below:
DERIVATION AND AREAS OF SOILS IN PROJECT AREA
Category          Derivation             Present Crop      Suitable Crop    Area
ac.
I      Recent marine deposits   Coconut                Coconut            39,500
I      Older marine deposits    Coconut                Coconut            61,100
I      Older marine deposits    Rubber & coconut    Oil Palm              34,300
II      Marine/riverine
deposits               Rubber               Oil Palm           11,200
II      Marine/freshwater         Rubber                Oil Palm &
deposits                                     Cash Crops        12,000
III      Freshwater deposits        Undeveloped          Rubber              7,400
III      Freshwater deposits       Pineapple &           Pineapple &
Undeveloped          Cash Crops         9,500
III      Freshwater deposits        Pineapple &          Pineapple &
Undeveloped          Cash Crops       156,200
Total area                                                    331,200
IV      Sedentary soils (not benefitting from the project)                 35,100
Total area                                                    366,300
Soil Management
9.        Saline soils.  The Southern part of the project area is still without
coastal embankments, but when protected from sea inundation and adequately
drained, salts are readily leached out by rainwater percolating through
the soil profile. Almost 24,000 ac are lower than 5 ft above MSL and
cannot be reclaimed for agricultural development. Coastal protection would
be provided for areas reclaimed. This soil would then be best suited
to coconut.
10.       Acid-sulphate soils.  While it is desirable to improve drainage
of these soils, it is vital that acid-sulphate conditions do not become
aggravated by further oxidation of sulphides to sulphates through over-drainage.
Control gates would, therefore, be included in the project in feeder and
lateral drains to maintain water levels above the acid-sulphate horizon in
dry periods. It is now accepted that the potential acid-sulphate layer in
these soils should be maintained in a reduced condition and attempts made to
flush out toxic sulphates during high rainfall periods. This would be achieved
by digging field drains to no more than 3 in below the potential acid
sulphate layer, blocking drains during dry weather periods to ensure the
water level does not drop below the acid-sulphate horizon, and flushing



ANNEX 2
Page  4
drains during reliably high rainfall periods. Oil palms, bananas, coffee
and cocoa all grow better on these soils than rubber, which is not tolerant
to acid-sulphate conditions.
11.       Mixed marine/river deposits.  These are of heavy texture and weakly
structured and require intensive drainage, which would be provided by feeder
and on-farm drains. Oil palms are well suited to this soil after drainage.
12.       Peat soils.  These are at present poorly drained and subject to
periodic flooding. The project would alleviate flooding and permit drainage
of these soils to sufficient depth for cultivation of shallow rooting crops.
With drainage, the peats would shrink due to oxidation and consolidation,
which necessitates regular deepening of drains. The rate of shrinkage may
amount to 6-10 in in the first year, but rapidly declines to a constant value
of about 1 in per annum. Burning is sometimes practiced to reduce further
the peat depth and augment its surface nutrient content, but this operation
is difficult to control. Due to their lack of consolidation and the presence
of amounts of timbers at various depths, hand cultivation must be undertaken
for several years whilst they consolidate and timbers are removed. The
latter operation is difficult and liable to be costly if the objective is
to mechanize cultivation operations within a few years of opening up tracts
of peat. With the adequate availability of labor in the area, however,
there is no urgency for mechanization of cultivation of the high value crops
planned for these peats.  With regard to the nutritional requirements of               _
peat soils, in their virgin state they are somewhat impoverished. Consolidation V
and burning render them more fertile and, possessing very high cation exchange
capacities, they are very responsive to applied fertilizers and capable
of supporting high yields of crops adapted to them. Fertilizer require-
ments depend on the crop, but, as a general rule, most crops will respond
to basal applications of copper sulphate and lime. The former is very
costly but need be applied only at about 30 lb per acre (cost M$ 74) and
has long residual action. In the cultivation of short-term crops such as
vegetables, very good responses are also obtained following application
of wood or oil palm bunch ashes. Oil palms are tolerant to shallow peats,
but on the deep peats, tapioca, groundnuts and mixed vegetables grow
well with suitable nutrients. Pineapples also do well on peat.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agriculture
Introduction
1.        This annex explains the present situation in the project area on a
crop by crop basis and then describes the agricultural development proposed
under the project. Table 1 shows the present distribution of crops and the
proposed distribution of crops in 30 years. It indicates the planned conversion
from one crop to another. Table 2 shows the proposed phasing of changes in
the cropping pattern on a crop by crop basis. Table 3 summarizes crop
statistics and processing plant schedules. Table 4 shows the yield progressions
for each crop on a "without" and "with" basis. The benefits of the agricul-
tural development on each crop are clearly evidenced.
2.        A description of each crop follows.  The present conditions and
techniques are first described followed by the effects of the project develop-
ment.  Tables 5 to 10 show for each crop the projected acreage without the
project and the proposed schedule of development with the project, under the
title of "Crop Statistics".
Rubber
(a) Present Situation and Techniques
3.        Area.  Rubber is the most extensively cultivated crop in the
project area, covering 86,500 ac. It is almost entirely on individually
owned smallholdings, the largest rubber estate being 1,800 ac in extent.
4.        Smallholdings.  A survey undertaken in 1971 showed that the
average size of holding is 10.2 ac, but many of the farms are fragmented.
Only 33% of the smallholdings consists of one parcel of land. The average
owner has 2.3 parcels. Malays own 60% of the rubber land and Chinese
the balance. The average size of Malay smallholding is half that of the
Chinese. The average area of rubber covers 88% of the lot, the balance
of the land is used for mixed crops, such as, pineapple, coffee, fruit,
bananas or arecanut palm.
5.        Farming practices.  Rubber trees can be tapped from about six
years old to about 30 years, after which they should be replaced. Tapping
should be carried out on alternate days for best yields but many of the
smallholders tap daily. Efforts of RRIM and RISDA to induce smallholders
.      to change tapping habits to improve standards and use yield stimulants
have so far not been successful due to lack of sustained effort because of



ANNEX 3
Page 2
0
staff constraints. The smallholders do not weed their lots sufficiently
nor do they maintain on-farm drains adequately. 82% of farms are run entirely
by family labor.
6.        Age and quality.  20% of the rubber is pre-1941 and hence at the
end of its economic life. 20% is immature and the balance is of varying
age and condition. Since rubber is not well suited to much of the soil, it
is in poor condition compared to areas where crop and soil are matched.
7.        Yields.  Yields are low within the project area, averaging only
550 lb/ac, whereas estates throughout Malaysia averaged 1,100 lb/ac.
8.        Replanting scheme.  At present smallholders receive a replanting
grant amounting to M$ 750/ac, consisting of M$ 450 from the replanting cess
(export tax) and M$ 300 in the form of a grant from Government. This is
used to replant with rubber or other approved crop. Planting materials are
supplied as part of the grant, which is spread over five years. It is
estimated that 1,000 ac was replanted in 1973 but, after the project
commences, only about 200 ac per annum would be replanted because oil palm
would become the main crop.
9.        Processing.  Most of the latex is processed to unsmoked sheets at
village level. The sheet rubber is of low quality because of dirt contamina-
tion, exposure to sunlight and mould growths. RRIM has established about 20
small group processing centers in an endeavor to raise quality, but better
results would be obtained by bulk collection of latex and transportation to
central factories.
(b) Proposed Development
10.       Area and cropping pattern.  Since the soils, on which the bulk of
the rubber is planted are not suitable for that crop, the project would
gradually reduce rubber acreage from 86,500 ac to 10,000 ac in 30 years by
replanting with mainly oil palm. The smallholders would be induced to work
on replanting in groups by extensive extension and close liaison with local
chiefs and village heads through the FO's. Planting schedules are shown in
Table 5.
11.       Improved husbandry.  The more sustained extension would ensure
that the remaining rubber would be of best planting material and would be
well maintained. After more intensive work by RISDA, farmers would be
persuaded to tap to better standards and only an alternate days. Ethrel
stimulation would be used to improve yields of rubber over 15 years old.
12.       Yields.  Yields would be expected to rise from 550 lbs/ac to 1,100
lb/ac in 30 years as shown in Table 4. The higher yields would still be
50% less than estate yields predicted at that time and would be entirely
possible.
13.       Processing.  Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation  (MRDC) plans
to construct a group crumb rubber factory in Pontian in 1974.  Smallholders            0



ANNEX 3
Page 3
would then have the opportunity to abandon their poor quality village manu-
racture of s8heet and take latex to collection centers, also being established by
MRDC.
Coconut
(a) Present Situation and Techniques
14.       Area.  There are 53,000 ac of coconuts in the project area, grown
only by smallholders.
15.       Smallholdings.  These average 13.3 ac (survey conducted in 1965),
with the sole crop area of about 9.4 ac of palms. Farms vary considerably
in size, 255 are less than 3 ac and 10X over 25 ac. An average holding
comprises three non-contiguous plots.
16.       Farming practices.  Coconuts bear fruit after six to seven years
and have a useful life of 50 to 60 years. The nuts are harvested every six
weeks using long knives on poles. The nuts are then split open and flesh
is incompletely sun-dried or in kilns fueled by coconut shells. The copra
is then further sundried, at present at the oil mill.
17.       A&e and qualit .  It is estimated that the majority of palms are
25-40 years old and some 5,000 ac have been replanted since 1965. Virtually
*         100X of palm. in the area are of the tall variety, which is better adapted
to local circumstances than the sensitive dwarf variety. The vigor and
appearance of palms at present, is sub-standard, largely due to:
(i) Inadequate on-farm drainage, resulting in weak growth,
lack of foliage lustre and tapering of palms;
>Al)  Exceasive stands.  A tantd should not exceed 50 palms
per ac for tall variety, but the average stand is 70
palms per ac;
(iWi) Poor husbandry. Lack of weeding and very little use of
fertilizer; and
(iv) Saline intrusion in the mouth of the project area. This
results in stagnation and death of palm.
18.        JMldm.  Yield  are low in the project area, even where already
improved by drainage schemes, they aro only 440 lbs/ae. Average yields of
estats int Malaysia are 1,350 lbs/ac.  Yields in areas affected by salt water
intrusion are down to 200 lbs/ae.
20.           Raplanting scheme,  Sinee 1963 the DOA has operated a replanting
schomo an well as a rehabilitation scheme. The replanting scheme provides
M* 500 per ac, moatly in the first year. To be eligible for a replanting
grant adequate drainage must be available and there must be fewer than 10
economic palms per ac. An economic palm is defined as one producing more
than 60 nuts per year (average on good holdings is 100 nuts per palm per



ANNEX 3
Page 4
year).  Under rehabilitation grants, the smallholders receive M$ 300 per ac
mostly paid in the first year. Rehabilitation consists of replacing
bad palms and inter-planting with cocoa, coffee or bananas or other
approved crop. Part of the grants is given in planting material and
fertilizer. Before payment of the cash part of the grants, smallholders'
on-farm drains, weeding and standard of husbandry is inspected by DOA.
Unfortunately the staff constraint means lack of sustained extension and
inspection and, after payment of the grant, farmers tend to thicken
stands, and neglect on-farm drainage and weeding.
20.            Processing.  About 15% of the crop is sold as fresh nuts, the
balance is processed in the area. The copra is sold to oil mills, all of
which are in the private sector. The copra still has about 14% residual
moisture and the oil mill normally further sun-dries the copra to 6% residual
moisture. Oil is then extracted by a screw press and the residue is sold
for cattle feed. Most of the oil is sold locally. There are 10 mills in
the project area and, although old, can well cope with present production.
(b) Proposed Development
21.       Area and cropping pattern.  Since the soils are generally suited
to the crop, the total area of coconut would remain at 53,000 ac. About
8,000 ac presently on deep and shallow peats would, however, be replaced
by crops better suited to peats. The coconut area would be restored by
establishing plantings on recent marine soils to which coconuts are well
suited.  Without the project the area of coconuts would be expected to
decline due to saline intrusion. Already in recent years 2,000 ac have
been destroyed in the Ayer Baloi area. The planting and rehabilitation
schedule is shown in Table 6.
22.       Improved husbandry.  The more sustained and intensive extension
service provided by DOA under the project through the FO's would
demonstrate modern agronomic techniques to farmers. Surplus palms would
be removed to reduce stands. Weeding standards would be improved and
fertilizer use encouraged.
23.       Yields.  As shown in Table 4, yields would rise from a low of
200 lbs per ac in the south and an average of 440 lb per ac in the north to
1,300 lbs per ac over 30 years. The rise would be gradual and would not
reach the highest levels without the hybrid varieties. Over 30 years the
yields would remain below half that forecast for estates, and is considered
attainable.
24.       Processing.  In order to improve the incomes of these smallholders,
FAMA would establish copra drying centers in the project area. One is
already under construction. FAMA would purchase nuts and process them to
high grade copra, thereby attracting better prices from oil mills. Oil
milling would remain in the private sector and additional independent mills
would be built to cope with the increased production in later years.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Inter-Planting among Coconuts
(a) Present Situation and Techniques
25.       Area.  Some coconut stands are inter-planted with cocoa, coffee and
banana, the areas being:
Cocoa          2,000 ac
Coffee          3,500 ac
Bananas        4,000 ac
These crops are particularly well suited as intercrops with coconuts and are
needed to supplement the incomes of coconut small growers.
26.       Smallholdings.  These crops are grown entirely by smallholders
in the project area. The total intercrop of 9,500 ac amongst 53,000 ac of
coconuts amounts to only 18% of the area. The average holding of cocoa or
coffee is 3.5 ac and of bananas 4 ac.
27.       Farming practices.   Cocoa and coffee plants bear crops from about
their third year to 25th year, and bananas from the first year for varying
periods up to 10 years. In the project, bananas have been assumed to need
replanting after five 5 years. Cocoa and coffee are picked when ripe, with
harvesting at 10 to 30 day intervals. Bananas are harvested throughout the
year. They are cut ripe for local use but in a slightly unripe condition
for transport to more distant markets.
28.       Age and quality.  Cocoa plants are in surprisingly good condition,
considering the lack of good on-farm drainage. Their foliage is healthy
and of good size. Coffee is the Liberica variety and is well suited to the
soils, it appears vigorous and bushes are well grown, comparing well with
those in the major coffee growing areas in Malaysia. Bananas are well
suited to the soils in the project area, and are tolerant of acid conditions.
The variety "Pisang Berangan" does particularly well under coconuts.
29.       Yields.  As the first cocoa was planted in 1971, there are few yield
data available. Coffee yields are about 400 lbs dry beans per ac. This is
rather low due to lack of on-farm drainage and low fertilizer use. Banana
yields average about 1.25 tons per ac, which can be improved by more frequent
replanting, since yields drop with each ratoon.
30.       Replanting schemes as described in para 23 are available for
these crops under the DOA.
31.       Pests and Diseases.  Cocoa is affected by leaf-eating caterpillars
and beetles, mealy bugs and capsids. These are being treated by farmers
with a variety of pesticides, some of which pose hazards to both pests and
beneficial insects (pollinating insects and pest predators). DOA is in-
vestigating the use of pesticides and the new Pesticide Act (under
parliamentary consideration) will help to control use of certain chemicals.
There are effective pesticides available to treat the pests affecting the



ANNEX 3
Page  6
cocoa and DOA would train a pest control team to provide spraying services
at farmer's request. Liberica coffee is particularly hardy and not much
affected by pests, except for berry borer and green scale for which there
is treatment. The incidence of disease in bananas in the area is mild, most
varieties seem resistant to leaf spot.
32.       Processing.  FAMA is currently constructing a processing unit for
cocoa at the Rengit FO.  Cocoa pods are split, fermented, then dried and bagged
for market.  A number of small coffee processing units exist in the area.
These remove the skin and pulp from coffee beans in water, then ferment, wash
and dry them.  Dried beans are sorted and bagged for market.
(b) Proposed Development
33.       Area and cropping pattern.  Over the next 30 years, the areas of
the intercrops would be increased gradually to the following:
Cocoa     30,000 ac
Coffee    10,000 ac
Banana    10,000 ac
Planting schedules are shown in Table 7. Smallholders would be induced
to follow these schedules by better and more sustained extension services,
with guidance from the project sociologicist and economist, and the spread
of the FO's.
34.       Yields.  Under the project yields would increase gradually over
30 years as follows:
Cocoa:    450 to 800 lbs dry bean per ac
Coffee:   400 to 600 lbs dry beans per ac
Bananas: 1.5 to 4 tons per ac
The cocoa yields anticipated are only 70% of those now obtained on estates
in Malaysia. Yields of 5,000 lbs per ac under research station conditions
have been obtained in Sabah and the private sector there expects to reach
yields of 3,000 lbs/ac commercially in 10 years. Cocoa is highly responsive
to good management practices. Coffee yields are expected to remain below
those experienced in the main coffee-growing districts of Malaysia and
should easily be obtainable, allowing for improvement in planting materials.
Banana yields would be expected to rise mainly due to better husbandry and
more frequent replanting.
35.       Processing.  The first processing unit for cocoa is being built
(para 32) and, as production increases, additional units would be built
commencing in 1976. The present method of processing cocoa is satisfactory.
The existing small coffee processing units would be replaced by larger modern
units commencing in 1975 with a 3 ton per day unit (See Table 3).



ANNEX 3
Page  7
Pineapple
(a) Present Situation and Techniques
36.       Area.  Pineapples are planted extensively in the project area,
mainly on the peat soils around Pekan Nanas and west of Simpang Rengam.
Smallholders account for more than 20,000 ac of the pineapple acreage, the
balance is cultivated on estates, 14,000 ac of which are owned by two
companies.
37.       Smallholdings.  There are over 3,000 smallholdings averaging 11.7
ac in extent with about 8 ac of pineapples on each lot. Other crops are
rubber, coconuts and fruit trees. Holdings vary considerably in size; 15%
have less than 3 ac pineapples, while 12% have more than 15 ac of the crop.
Chinese farmers cultivate an average of 10.6 ac, whereas Malays cultivate
5.1 ac; some Chinese rent additional areas. Most smallholdings consist of
a single block.
38.       Farming practice.  Pineapples produce one plant crop in about 18
months and thereafter ratoon crops, mainly in May/June and January, although
harvesting does continue throughout the year. The percentages of annual crop
produced monthly are:
*        Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   May   June   July   Aug   Sep t   Oct   Nov  Dec  Total
10     6     10    8      12      14    6      5       7     7     6    9    100
The fluctuations in monthly crop can be reduced by regularly replanting and
by flower induction programs using stimulants.  At present many plants are
more than ten years old.  Lack of roads hampers the transport of fruit to
the canneries and causes severe losses.
39.       Age and quality.  Much of the present crop is too old to produce
good yields. The variety is mostly "Singapore Spanish", which possesses the
following characteristics:
Favorable                            Unfavorable
(i)  Good fruit color and flavor        (i)  Rather low yields;
for canning purposes;
(ii)  Satisfactory fungal disease       (ii)  Small fruit, poor shape and
resistance;                             deep eyes, resulting in low
factory recovery rate;
(iii)  Responsive to flowering          (iii)  Susceptible to Erwinia fruit
stimulants.                             collapse.
By selecting within the "Singapore Spanish" variety a new cultivar, "Mas
0         Merah" was introduced in 1971.  This cultivar has 30% better yields than
present plants and yields a larger fruit. There is, however, an urgent need
for a variety with better canning shape, yield and fruit size.



ANNEX 3
Page  8
40.       Yields.  The average yield of existing plantings is 7.8 tons of
fresh fruit per ac. "Mas Merah" is capable of producing 20 tons per ac
in first crop and 10-12 tons annually in ratoon crops. Yields are affected
by high water tables as well as by lack of care. Estates production raises
the average yield since they have better agronomic techniques.
41.       Replanting scheme.  In 1971 a replanting scheme was introduced,
which granted smallholders M$ 400 per ac in the first year. This grant
was raised in 1973 to M$ 650 per ac as response to the initial replanting
grant had not been very satisfactory (only 230 ac being replanted by the
end of 1972). However, a shortage of planting material was also a factor.
The grant is administered by MPIB, who are planning a major drive to increase
replanting as soon as more "Mas Merah" plants become available.
42.       Pests and Diseases.  Mealy bugs are the most prominent insect pests
while Erwinia fruit collapse is the only disease of significance.
43.       Extension and Research.  Extension is provided by MPIB but, due to
staff constraints, has not been reaching the smallholders, who have not been
replanting nor using flowering stimulants in an effective manner. Research
was taken over by MARDI from MPIB on 1 August 1973. The 250 ac Pineapple
Research Station near Pekan Nanas has made good progress in the development
of "Mas Merah". Future reasearch efforts would be directed particularly at:
Mi)  Production of superior varieties and cultivars to
increase yields and improve recovery rate at
canneries, including trials on varieties from
other countries, such as Australia;
(ii) Novel methods of propagation, by tissue culture or other
means, to accelerate the pace of replanting with new
cultivars;
(iii) Investigation of the optimum drainage regime. Tank
investigations indicate that both under and over drainage
can significantly influence growth and yield;
(iv) Nutritional investigations to enhance productivity;
(v)  Use of growth regulating hormones to minimize fluctuations
in monthly production and thereby increase the annual
throughput of canneries; and
(vi) Studies of the economic returns in different cycles of
replanting.
MARDI has requested a loan from the Bank, which would include strengthening
of staff and facilities for pineapple research. Preparation prior to appraisal
is underway.
44.       Processing.  There are five canneries in the region and two, both             0
managed by PCM and owned by Government, are in the project area. Other privately



ANNEX 3
Page 9
owned canneries are in Johore Bahru and Singapore. All activities of the
canneries are regulated by MPIB and the Food Technology branch of the Ministry
of Agriculture. Apart from a small amount of fresh fruit sold locally, all
pineapples are canned.
45.       Farmers sell their crop to registered vendors and co-operatives
who are responsible for fruit delivery to canneries. Prices paid by can-
canneries to farmers are reviewed every three months by the MPIB and fixed by
Government. Payment is made only for accepted fruits at the fixed rate and
deductions are made for transportation charges (usually M$ 5 - M$ 6.50 per ton
delivered). Members of the MPIB Inspectorate Division are stationed at each
cannery to supervise various activities, including deliveries, fruit grading,
processing operations, general sanitation, labelling of products, etc.
Rejection of fruits by canneries is to some extent subjective and averages
15% of fruits delivered, being higher during peak cropping periods. The
extent of fruit rejection has been a constant source of dispute, because
growers receive no payment for rejected fruits, which are often utilized for
production of juice and lower grade products. Guidance to farmers on optimum
harvesting standards and visual grading of fruits at collection centers before
loading would reduce considerably the extent of fruit rejection at canneries.
As fruit size is a very important criterion, it would also be desirable for
canneries to grade fruits by mechanical means into different size grades,
paying premia for large fruits of the required quality and applying discounts
to undersized or sub-standard fruits.
46.       With regard to fruit utilization, the average recovery rate at
canneries is reported to be only 15% of accepted fruits. This figure compares
unfavorably with values closer to 30% to 40% recorded in Australia, Taiwan
and Hawaii. The very poor recovery rate in the Malaysian canneries can be
attributed largely to small fruit size (averaging less than 3 lb each) deep
eyes and lack of incentive to grow and supply large fruit. "Mas Merah"
variety is reported to have a recovery rate of about 20%.
47.       Waste materials are granulated and flushed into rivers which are
consequently polluted. Investigations are being undertaken on utilization
of fresh or dried pineapple waste as a foodstuff for animals and for manufac-
ture of alcohols and acids.
(b) Proposed Development
48.       Area and cropping pattern.  No immediate increase in pineapple
area is proposed. After better yielding and shaped varieties are planted,
the acreage under pineapple would increase gradually over 30 years by 10,000
ac to 45,000 ac. All pineapple would be grown on peat, to which it is well
suited. About 4,000 ac presently on mineral soils would be replaced by
oil palm and the acreage regained from the newly drained peat areas. The
planting schedules are given in Table 8.
49.       Improved husbandry.  Once the drainage is improved and the new
varieties planted, the farmers would be persuaded by greater extension efforts
from MPIB through FO's to use fertilizers to improve yields and flowering
stimulants to spread the peak harvesting periods. This would improve regular



ANNEX 3
Page 10
incomes and reduce rejections at canneries. MARDI would carry out an intensive
program of research on the pineapple varieties and their fertilizer and
stimulant needs (para 43).
50.       Processing.  By grading the fruit in the field at collecting centers
and revising the prices paid from the fixed system to a variable system
based on size, shape and quality, an incentive would be provided to farmers
to produce better fruit. Better roads would be provided in the project
between farms and collection centers, sharply reducing transport costs and
fruit damage. Use of flowering stimulants would alleviate the peaking
problem. The above factors would enable canneries to obtain a better
recovery rate. An improvement in fruit size alone would be of considerable
benefit, for the following reasons:
-    Apart from transport costs, field costs per unit
number of fruits would not be increased.
-    Fewer fruits would be rejected.
-    Factory recovery would increase considerably and
this substantially greater recovery rate would
allow the price canneries pay growers for fruit
to rise.
-    Cannery productivity would be increased considerably
with no increase in machinery, labor, etc.
51.       Present canning capacity is estimated to be 375,000 tons annually.
As the initial rate of crop production would increase slowly, no additional
canneries would be required before 1980. Starting in 1980 a new cannery of
75,000 tons annua  capacity would be built and before the end of the
project development period, another two similar canneries would be required
(Table 3).
Oil Palm
(a) Present Situation
52.       Area.  Oil palms are grown extensively on sedentary soils just
outside the project area where there are ample oil milling facilities.
Only sporadic palms, mainly planted as ornamentals, are found in the
project area. Small estates within the area are contemplating planting
the crop and one small estate near Kukup had established sufficient
nursery seedlings for planting 200 ac in 1973. The slow pace of oil palm
development in the project area can be attributed to a combination of
factors, including inadequacy of drainage, unsuitability of certain soils
(such as deep peats), absence of demonstration plots or estate plantings
which would indicate the crop's potential, and mostly, the need to organize
collection of fruit and transport for processing in factories outside
the area.



ANNEX 3
Page 11
53.       Smallholdings.  At present, there are no smallholdings with
this crop in the project area.
54.       Farming Practice.  Oil palm has an economic life from about
three years to 25-30 years of age but its fruit bearing is variable, reaching
a peak in the twelfth year, and then gradually falling off. Fresh fruit
bunches (FFB) are harvested at intervals of 10-14 days and are then be taken
to collection centers for transport to the oil mill. The distance to the
mill should not be greater than 40 miles to avoid excessive transport costs
and deterioration in oil quality.
55.       Age and Quality.  The condition of the few palms in the area is
very encouraging. Palms are up to 20 years old and have not received much
attention and yet there is a good display of fronds and little sign of
nutrient deficiency. There are clear indications, from other areas of
similar soils in Malaysia, that oil palms would be well suited to those
soils in the project area for which it would be recommended.
56.       Replanting Scheme.  RISDA operates the scheme for replanting
rubber with oil palm. M$ 750 per ac spread over 2 years is provided. The
grant includes planting material and fertilizer as well as a cash element.
RISDA has already supervised replanting of some 15,000 ac of oil palm in
Johore State since 1956 on smallholdings. RISDA would also provide
extension services and mills for oil palm.
57.       Diseases.  The only major insect pest in the area, the rhinoceros
beetle (Oryctes), can be reduced in significance by destruction of potential
breeding sites (e.g. rotting rubber and palm timbers) and by regular
patrols within young plantings to remove adult beetles before they inflict
appreciable damage. Control measures for other insect pests are seldom
required and would be the responsibility of the proposed project pest
control team under the direction of an extension services entomologist.
Rats can be troublesome in both young and mature oil palm plantings. A
close check would be maintained for, and appropriate measures taken against,
fungal disease, especially Ganoderma stem rot and Marasmius bunch rot, which
would not present major problems.
(b) Proposed Development
58.       Area and Cropping Pattern.  It is planned to replant 45,000 ac
of rubber with oil palm over 30 years. The total area of oil palm at
the end of the development period would be 60,000 ac. The other acreage
would come from undeveloped land (9,000 ac) and marine deposit soils
(6,000 ac) presently planted with pineapple or coconut. The proposed
planting schedule is shown in Table 9. The initial pace of oil palm
planting would be slow, amounting to 100 acres in 1974, 400 acres in 1975
and 1,300 acres in 1976. This slow pace is recommended as trial-cum-
demonstration blocks of reasonable size (at least 50 ac) would need to be
established in advance by MARDI and the DOA on representative soils.



ANNEX 3
Page 12
59.       Improved Husbandry.  There would be no problem in securing
adequate supplies of D x P (Tenera) planting materials from reputable
sources. Material for the 1974 planting would be obtained from established
estate nurseries which usually carry surplus seedlings. Materials for
subsequent plantings would preferably be raised in central polybag
nurseries (operated by DOA and Farmers' Organizations) for subsequent
distribution to farmers. Guidance as to the most appropriate field
practices would be obtained through RISDA from research institutions and
organizations which have experience in the cultivation of oil palms in
similar circumstances. Few problems are liable to arise for,which
satisfactory solutions have not already been found.  To ensure success in the
change of cropping pattern, social factors would be considered as well as
agronomic to ensure that replanting takes place in compact blocks, thereby
facilitating the supervision of field practices and the transport of fruit.
Oil palm cultivation practices would include:
(a) water table regulation in potential acid-sulphate soils
to ensure reducing conditions are maintained within the
acid-sulphate horizon in dry weather;
(b) use of fertilizer based on soil and foliar analysis
results, with due consideration to experience in field
experiments. The main requirements are likely to be for
nitrogen and potash, the latter preferably supplied by
oil palm bunch ash; and
(c) regular weeding, since strongly competitive growths must
not be allowed to establish within the avenues between
trees and clean weeded circles should be maintained around
palms.
60.       Yields.  Yields would increase slowly as palms come into
production after the third year. Maximum yields on smallholdings would
be 8.5 tons FFB per ac in the twelfth year. This would be about 75%
of estate yields and would be possible under smallholder conditions
with good extension services. Yield progressions are shown in Table 4.
61.       Processing.  There are no oil palm mills in the project area.
The build-up of oil palm production in the project area is shown in
Table 3. It is envisaged that, until production exceeds 40,000 tons
per annum -- sufficient to justify operation of an oil mill within the
project area -- fruit bunches would be sent to the FELDA oil mill at
Kulai for processing. According to production estimates, the first oil
mill would be operational in 1982. Altogether three mills would be
required, two of 30 tons and one of 40 tons FFB per hour capacity,
to process crops expected in 30 years' time. Processing requirements
are based on the following assumptions:
(a) a maximum of 12% of annual crop would be harvested in
one month;



ANNEX 3
Page 13
(b) mill presses would each have a throughput capacity of
10 tons FFB per hour; and
(c) a mill would operate 500 hours in peak cropping months.
It follows that one 10 ton press would be required for every 40,000 tons
ffb produced each year. Assurances would be given to the smallholders before
planting their oil palms that adequate processing facilities would be avail-
able to deal with all fruits produced. RISDA would arrange collection points
and transport the fruit to FELDA mills and later to the new mills. Mills
would be built and operated under the auspices of RISDA, with advice from
FELDA.
Tapioca, Groundnuts and Vegetables
62.       Area.  There are no significant areas of these crops in the project
area at present.
(a) Proposed Development
63.       Tapioca.  Cultivation would be confined to peat soils.  Eventually
40,000 ac would be established. Experience with tapioca in peat soils at
the MARDI's Jalan Kebun station in Selangor indicates that tuber yields
fully comparable with yields obtained on good mineral soils can be realized
on peat soils that are adequately drained and nourished. The crop is less
well suited to other soils in the project area which tend to be of too
heavy texture and pose cultivation difficulties. Peat soils are very easily
cultivated by hand, are inexpensive to maintain weed-free, are flat and
not subject to erosion, and facilitate harvesting of tubers. There are
several high yielding varieties in the country. The most popular at present
are Black Twig and Green Twig. The former is the more adaptable and
consistent yielder, and has higher extractable starch. There are ample
supplies of planting materials. Tapioca is a heavy feeder and a generous
fertilizer program would be provided to sustain high productivity on
continuous cropping. As responses are highly economic, liberal manuring
is well justified. Although virgin peats have low nutrient reserves, they
possess very good cation exchange capacities (superior to clay soils) and
therefore efficiently retain nutrients which are applied. As peats are
deficient in copper and tapioca is particularly sensitive to shortage of
that nutrient, it would be necessary to apply copper sulphate.
64.       Tapioca is a very easy crop to grow and has few pests or
diseases. The cost of initial land preparation would be higher than for
normal mineral soils, on account of the presence of buried timbers, but
subsequent costs would be reduced. Mechanization of operations would not
be practicable for several years until peats have consolidated and timbers
within 18 in of the surface have been removed. Despite the impracticability
of mechanizing operations, returns on peat soils compare well with those
on mineral soils. On-farm drains for tapioca should be about 25 yards
apart and 1.5 ft in depth.



ANNEX 13
Page 14
65.       Tapioca has not been cultivated extensively on peats, but
large scale trials and observation blocks on peats have consistently
given yields of between 10 and 15 tons tubers per acre. With rational
manuring such high yields can be maintained. As the efficiency of the
farmers varies considerably, initial yields would average 8 tons per
ac but a gradual improvement to 14 tons per ac would be expected over the
30-year development period as a result cf improved varieties and superior
agricultural practZces.
66.       Processing facilities would be built in the area for converting
tubers to chips and starch. However, as the crop build-up is rather
slow initially and capital costs of a large processing plant are high,
the tubers would be processed into chips or pellets at first. The first
starch plant would be needed by 1979. By 2003, 12 such 175-ton per day
plants 'would be required.
67.       Groundnuts.  Groundnuts require soft, friable soils which offer
good penetration of roots and facilitate penetration of pods. The crop
is therefore best suited to sandy and organic soils. Trials conducted by
the DOA and MARDI on peats indicate, however, that very good yields can
be obtained provided that an appropriate fertilizer program is followed.
10,000 ac would be planted in the newly drained peat area. Being a legume,
the groundnut responds well to fertilizers which reduce soil acidity.
Several varieties of groundnut are cultivated in Malaysia. Further
investigations would be necessary to determine which varieties are best
suited to peat soils.  The initial plantings by DOA would include variety/
fertilizer/spacing trails to provide additional information and serve as
demonstration plots. As the crop is suscepc:ible to diseases, it is
not suitable for continuous cultivation. Trials are in progress at the
MARDI peat research station to study rotational cropping systems.
68.       The  cropping cycle is usually about 110 days and three crops
per year have been assumed. Harvesting on peat soils is inexpensive as
pods can be extracted without difficulty. Yields of almost 1.5 tons of
fresh unshelled groundnuts per ac per harvest can be obtained.
69.       After harvesting, pods are separated from stalks and pods may
be dried intact to 12% moisture content or nuts extracted and dried to
8% moisture content. Small quantities can be dried outdoors on mats to
the requisite moisture content in 3-4 days if good sunshine conditions
prevail. Artificia'l drying is necessary when large-scale production
commences. The capital investment for a unit capable of processing
3,300 tons of fresh unshelled nuts per annum would amount to $320,000 and
yield 1,000 tons roasted peanuts. The early production would be sun dried
and sent to Perak State for processing. The first unit would be commissioned
in 1978. Fifteen such units would be required in 30 years' time.
70.       Vegetables.  As the mineral soils in the area are unsuitable
for commercial vegetable cultivation, and peats can support high yields
of a variety of crops, vegetable-growing ventures would be restricted
to the latter. 10,000 ac would be planted in the newly drained areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 15
For intensive vegetable cultivation, peats have the following advantages
over most sedentary soils:
(a) less subject to erosion;
(b) more satisfactory water holding properties;
(c) moisture availability can be regulated at little cost
by control of water level in draias;
(d) good nutrient retention capacities; and
(e) low weeding costs.
Work undertaken by the DOA and MARDI, supported by work of enterprising
farmers, has shown unat a wide variety of vegetable crops can be grown
on peats. Vegetable cultivation is labor intensive and results depend
to a large extent on the endeavour and ability of individual farmers.
Mechanization of cultivation using heavy equipment would be impracticable
until peats have consolidated and timbers within 18 in of the surface
have been extracted. Very little mechanization of vegetable cultivation
is done at present in the major vegetable-growing areas of the country.
Considerable expertise is required in arranging suitable crop rotations,
timing of land preparation and planting operations, application of
appropriate fertilizers, fungicides and insecticides at the right time
and efficiently. With regard to nutrient responses, vegetables respond
well to light burning of peat and application of wood and oil palm bunch
ashes. FO's would provide the necessary extension advice.
71.       Experience of growing vegetables on peats in the area has
shown the following average yields are possible after drainage improvements:
Crop           Cropping Cycle      Yield per Acre       Product
---months----       -----tons-----
Cucumber              3                  6.0            fruits
Chilli                6-1/2              2.4            fresh fruits
French beans          2-1/2              3.0            fresh pods
Tomato                3-1/2              6.0            fruits
Ginger                8-9                5.4            fresh root
Yam (Colocasia)      10                  5.0            fresh coams
Sweet potato          5                  6.0            fresh tubers
Watermelon            3-1/2              6.0            fresh fruit
The above yields are obtained from relatively unimproved planting materials.
Higher yields would be expected in future as a result of breeding and
selection work on these crops.
.



ANNEX 3
Page 16
72.       Although MARDI is undertaking vegetable research work on peats
in Selangor, trials would be carried out on a peat station in the project
area which would provide information on planting material performances
with different cultural practices and at the same time serve as demonstration
areas for farmers. Considerable effort would be required by the extension
services to promote vegetable cultivation and ensure that sound agronomic
practices are adopted. The extension services would also be responsible
for organizing the cropping and planting patterns necessary for a uniform
supply of vegetables to markets. Close liaison between research, extension
and marketing services would, therefore, be established.
Planting Materials
73.       The supply of planting materials to keep pace with proposed
development would not be a problem. DOA would be responsible for organizing
the supply, which would come from the following sources:
Oil palm       -  MARDI and several large estates in
the private sector
Rubber         -  RRIM and RISDA
Coconut        -  DOA's own stations
Cocoa          -  DOA from Sabah and elsewhere
Pineapple      -  MARDI and external sources
Coffee    ?
Tapioca   )    -  DOA's own stations
Groundnut )
Tables
1.   Present and proposed distribution of crops
2.   Phasing of changes in cropping pattern
3.   Summary of crop statistics and processing plant schedule
4.   Yield progressions of selected crops
5.   Crop statistics - Rubber
6.             1      - Coconut
7.     "      "       - Cocoa, Coffee, and Banana
8.     " i            - Pineapple
9.                    - Oil Palm
10.                    - Tapioca, Groundnuts and Vegetables



*                                                                                                        .*                                                                                                        0
1AAsESSIA
WESTERN JOHORE ACiRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEkC PROJECT
Present and Proposed Dirt.ribution of Crops
L U B B E R                                           C O  C  O  N  U  T                                                            P I  N  E  A  P  P  L  E
Soil Group              Present        Planned Conversion to          Eventual    -re-rnt  Coeversion to    Balance         New Plantings           Rventual      Present    Conversion to    BalBao       -ew Plastsings        Eventual
Ares      OP       C        P       CC       Area        Area       OP      CC      Area      Es-B   ES-P    Undevel        Area        Area        OP         C     Aree        En-R     Undevel        Area
Recent -arine deposits       2,306             2,000                         30(       3,101                        3,101   2,000     800      5,000      10,901         893               800         93                                 93
Older mArine deposits
and alluvial soils          44,791    40,000                               4,791      41,l40 'o,900                39,040                                39,040        3,6i8     3,000                618                                618
Shallow peat                 5,489     5,000                                 4R.       1,37;'                       1,372                                 1,372          713                          713                                713
Deep peat                   33,914                      10,200   19),5C1   4,414       1,687            - ,00o      1,168                                 1,687       29,676                       29,676    10,000        3,900      43,576
TOTAL              86,500    45,000   ?,000   10o,oo   19,500  ]o,.lssO     93,000    2,800   5,000     45,200   2,000      0oo      5,000     53,000       34,900     3,000     800    31,100    10,000        3,900       45,000
rC I L    P A  L  1                                 1 A  S11   C       11    S                   Mi-xed  -ortiaulture,          Total Area             Tatal Area U.ndeveloped                 leas
Soil Group              Present            New Pl-aLt,                Nrettas    Preset'        Tao PlantinCs           Evei; -I    Market G-rde-ing,               Developed
Aresa      E-P   E0-0    El-P    1rn1e-    Area            Area      O,       . Pa-C  Jitlevel   Ares        Misoellaneoss Crops        Present  Eventual         Present       Eventual                    Area
Recent marine deposit6 ,                                                                                                                                               6,856    11,856          32,653        27,653                  39,509
Older marine deposits
and aL-uvial sails             100    40,000   2,'oo         3,0O   1 '?,00  ,JO                                                              14,905                 105,354   114,354         20,586         11,5861                125,940
Shallow peat                           5,000                               1,'00                                      300       i09              4717                  8,o45     8,345          1,390          1,090                   9,435
Deep peat                                                                                100  l7,"o0   5,000    30,100   59,700                3,798                  74,175   113,175         82,161         43,161                 156,336
TOTAL                 100    45,000   1,800     3,,00    3, 000    60,00)0)     100   11,2205,000         iv,4oo    13,s o9,730                             194,430   24(,130        136,790         83,490                 331,220
oates:
OP  - Oil Poie
C  .C.oconut
P  =Oin-pple
L    Rubber
CC  _  9ash cr0p0.  Tapisca,  troutlr.ts, sot,) oe2.al,ler  err.  Toe- sorts ahow. Go do, -sc-isd  intarplan-ed cros3 at already
plarst.e,) aran  O ussasosk to1 ol  aceIa.  lirtod u-d-r mixcd horti-ultro-,  -keIt .rsrdcol,r,csc.
Jndevelaped areas . Forert -voorvas, o-eltto  artas,  1a1nsteno, er.>



MALAYSIA
WESTESRN JOORE AGRICLTLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing Of Changes In Cropping Pattern
(ac)
R-UB   V   E R PC   0   C   2   N   C   T                                                                                                                        P IN   ECAP  PL  E
YEAR          Total Area          Planned Conversion to           Repl-oting      Total Area    Conversion to            New Plantigs           Replanting   Rehab.          Total Area         Conversion to         New Plantings
OP      C         P      cc                                      OP        cT      in-R     No-P   Undevel                                                       OP       C         En-P    Ondevel.        R71'NP
1973      86,500           a                                                        5)3,000                                                                                34s,900                                                            1,000
(- 8,500)    6,000      500   1,000   1,000       1,000                         -       1,000     500       300      200        4,000       6,500               ( 1,100)   1,000         300      1,000     1,400
1978      78,000                                                                    5)3,000                                                                                36,000o                                                           25,000
(-16,ooo)   12,000      500   1,500   2,000       1,000                         800    1,0O0      500       500      800        2,200      10,000               (  1,500)   2,000        500      1,500     2,500
1-983     62,000                                                                    53,000                                                                                 37,500                                                           37,500
(-18,000)   12,000      500   2,000  31,200         500                       1,000    1,000      500       -      1,500        3,000         -         3          2,000)      -         -       2,000         -
1988      44,ooo                                                                    53,000                                                                                 39,500                                                           39,500
1993      30,000  (-14,000)    7,000       500   2,000   4,500          500                      1,000    1,000      500       -      1,500        3,000         -                 (  2,000)      -         -        2,000        -415oo
1998   (-11,000)    4,000  -    2,000   5,000       500                         -       1,000     -         -      1,000        4,000         -                    2,000)      -         _       2,000         -
1998      19,000                                                                    53 ,000                                                                                43,000                                                           43,000
(9,000)    4,000       -    1,500   3,500          700                         -                                               ,000)        -                 (1,500l)       -         -        1,500        -
2003      lo,ooo                                                                    so ,000                                                                               4Os 000                                                           45,000
0I L   P A L M                              Maredtrd n                         iA2            New2 P    ' n                        N D E V E L L P E D   L A " D
YEAR          Totnl Ares               Nes Plantings                    Mariet isrdeni.g           Tots1 Ares            Nes Plentiogo                   - -asg                                                          Total o-lo-dto
ET-R    Ei-C    F.-P   tode-al.        Miscellaneous Crops                           oE-h    En-C  UJsde-1l                                    C         p      OP        CC
1973         200                                                             19,730                100                                               136,790                                                                    190,430
8,000)    6,000      -     1,000   1,000               1                   4          4,40)   1,000   1,000   2,000                      (-5,000)         200   1,400   1,000    2,400
1983        8,200   26,800)   12,000       800   2,000   2,000               19,730                                  2,000   1,000  15,500             37       -20,800)        800   2,500   2,000   15,500                    199,430
1983      25,000                                                             29,700             2 3,01                                               110,l3'90                                                                  220,230
15,000)   12,000   1,000      -      9,000                                            i 10,00C)   3,500   1,000   9,500                   (-13,000)      1,500     -      2,000    9,1500
1993      4o, ooo    10,000)    7,000   2,000      -      2,000              19,730                      ( 10,000)   4,500   1,000   4,500                     (_ 8,000)      1,510     -      2,000    4,500                   233,230
1993      10,000                                                             19),730            47,000                                                89,990                                                                    241,230
15,20)     00,O      _       -      1,020                                   '        7,000)   5,C00    1,0 0    1,000                    )  3,000)      1,000     -      1,000    1,000
1008      5        (,OOO  5,000)   40,o0   -       -      1,002                                          ( 6,o00)   3>,50       -     2,500                    (- 3,500)        -       _      1,000    2,500                   244O230
2003      60,0o0                                                             13 ,730            6o,002                                                83,090                                                                    247,730
Notes:
OP = Oil Palms
C = Cononuts
P   Pineapple
R   R,,bber
CC   Co3, crops= Tapioca, gr-ond-ocs, mined vegtsbi-, etc.  rhie -verages ,ma  do ,ot oi-lde   ;terplanted srea-  or alrc ady                 _         epls,,ted
planted areas of -sk-ooc  total acera-e listed lstd- aijoed hortic-lL-re, -Z%>  garde-ing, etc                                 '-' = Noo V ted
Undeveloped  areas  = l-     osro        se       -r-s, cr-anereas, er,.                                                                          Ch3nge  doting Rice-poor period
0                                                                                                            



*                                                                                     6 
'4AIAYSIA
VEST4RN JOHOgEiAr4RTCULTURAL DEVELOPKENT PROJECT
Susmary of Crop':Statistics and Processing Schedule
-@rt6truction Pgrp,d-                   -----
Crop                    Unit            Project         1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983                1988       1993       1998       2003
hubber           '001 acBTes                 With           86.5    86.4    86.4    84,0    81,0    78.0    75.0    72.0    69.0    66.0    62.0                44.0       30.0        19.0       10.0
Without        86.5    86.3    S6,0    85,5    85.0    84.5    84.0    83.5    83.0    82.5    82.0                79.5       77.0       74.0        70.0
'000 tons                  Wtth           17.1    18.5    19.6    20.4    20.9    21.3    21.8    21.8    21.5    21.1    20.4                15.5        11.4        7.8        4.4
-Wiuthout       17.1    17.4    17.8    18.1    18.4    18.8    19.1    19.2    19.4    19.6    19.7                20.5       21.3       21.9       22.0
Coconut          '000 acres                  With           53,0    53.0    53.0    53,0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0                53.0       53.0       53.0        53.0
-Witthout       53.0    51.0    51.0    51,0    51.0    51.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    50.0                49.0       48.0       46.0       45.0
'000 tons copra            With           10.5    11.0    11.3    11.7    12.4    12.9    13.7    14.3    15.3    16.3    17.4                19.2       21.9        24.8       27.7
Wiithout       1,O.5    10115    1Q.6    101.8    11.0    11.3    11.1    11.4    11.6    11.8    12.0             12.8       13.8       14.6        15.7
CpRat drying unit-                                                    4T                       12T                        12T                 12T        12T        12T
Cocoa            '000'-'cres               ' With            2.2      2.5      3,0      4.0      5.0     6.0      7.0      8.5    10.0    12.0    14.0          20.0       25.0       28.0        30.0
.: withcut      Z'.2    .2.5       2.8      3.1      3.4      3.7      4.0      4.3     4.6      4.8      5.0         5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0
'000 tbns''dried beans    With              . 02     .07      .2       .3       .4       .5       .7     1.0      1.3      1.7      2.0        4.5        6.5         7.3        8.1
Without           .02      07      .2       .2       .3       .4       .5      .6       .7       .7       .8          .9         .8         .7         .7
Processihg unitl:                                                     4T                      2x8T
41       2x81                               ~~~~~      ~~~~~      ~~~~~~~4x8T  4x8T  2x8T
Cdffee           '000 acres                 -With          i,3.5      3.8      4.1      4.5      5.0     5.5      6.0      6.5      7.0      7.5      8.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0
''Without         3.5    ,3.8       4.1     4.4      4.7      5.0      5.2      5.4      5.6      5.8     6.0         7.0        8.0        8.0        8.0
'000 tons dried beans    With                .34     .42      .52      .62      .73      .86      .98    1.1      1.2      1.3      1.4        2.0        2.2         2.2        2.1
Processing u 1/            Without           .34     .42  ,.50         .D57     .64      .70      .76      .8      .9       .9      1.0        1.1         1.2        1.2        1.1
Processing unit-:                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~3T                     3T                         3T       3T
PIanana          '000 acres                  With            4.0      4.2      4.4      4.6      4.8     5.0      5.4      5.8      6.2      6.6      7.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0
Without         4.0      4.2      4.4      4.6     4.8      5.0      5.2      5.4      5.6      6.8      6.0        7.0        8.0        8.0         8.0
'000 tons fruit            With            5.0      5.2      5.6      6.0      6.5      7.2     8.0      9.4    11.3    12.0    12.5          17.9       17.9        17.9       17.9
Without         5.0      5.2      5.5      5.8    .6.1      6.3      6.4      6.8      7.1      7.3      7.5        8.8       10.0       10.0        10.0
Oil Palm         '000 acres                 With              .2       .3       .7      2.0      5.0     8.0    11.0    14.0    17.0    21.0    25.0            40.0       50.0       55.0       60.0
Without           .2      .3       .5       .6       .8     1.0      1.2      1.4      1.6      1.8      2.0        3.5        5.0        6.5         8.0
'000 tons ffb              With             -       -        -         .1       .8      1.8     4.4    11.4    25.7    45.7    68.8          208.0      327.0      388.0       395.0
2/                Without          -        -        -         .1      .6      1.1      1.9      2.7      3.6      4.7     5.8        12.7       19.4       27.0       31.0
Oil Mill- :                                                                                                               30T                  30T        40T
Pineapple        '000 acres                 With            35.0    35.0    35.0    35.5    35.5    36.0    36.0    36.5    37.0    37.5    37.5                39.5       41.5       43.0       43.0
Without        35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0                35.0       35.0       35.0        35.0
'000 tons fruit            With          207.0   207.0   216.0   228.0   244.0   264.0   287.0   307.0   322.0   330.0   338.0               371.0      419.0      452.0       490.0
3/                 Without        207.0   207.0   207.0   210.0   213.0   216.0   225.0   229.0   232.0   237.0   238.0               245.0      252.0      266.0      280.0
Cannery_ :                                                                              1                                                       1                     1
Tapioca          '000 acres                  With            -         .1       .2       .5      1.0     3.0      5.0      7.0      9.0    12.0    15.0         25.0       30.0       35.0       40.0
'000 tons tubers                           -          .8     1.6      4.5      9.0    27.0    50.0    70.0    90.0   120.0   150.0           275.0      360.0      455.0       560.0
Processing unit!/                                                    40T                       175T             175T              175T    3x175T    2x175T    2x175T    2x175T
Groundnut        '000 acres                  With            -         .01      .05      .1       .2       .5     1.0      1.5      2.0      2.5      3.0        5.0        7.0        9.0        10.0
'000 tons fresh unshelled
nuts                                    -          .04     .2       .4       .7      1.8     2.7      5.6      7.5      9.5    11.6        20.8       31.2       42.9        50.6
Processing unit4/                                                                       1        1        1l                               
1   1       ~        ~        ~ ~~1  1  2          3          4          2
1/  naily outnut in tons.
2/  Dailv produclion in tons ffb.
3/ 75,000 ton/yr ner unit.
4/  3,300 ton/yr ner unit.                                                            






ANNEX 3 --
Table 4
MALAYS IA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Yield Progressions of Selected Crops
1/       Oil Palm              Cocoa                 Coffee               Bananas
YeaS    Without   With         Without   With        Without   With        Without   With
--tons ffb----… ----------lb. dry beans----------                   bunches
1          - I                  ,         -           _         -         200        200
2          -        -           -         -           -         -         400        600
3          -                     -        -           -         -         330        460
4        0.5       0.7          70       120          10        20        270        200
5        2.5       3.6         190       320          70       100        200        270
6        3.8       5.6         290       480         140       200            Replant
7         5.1      7.5         340       560         210       300
8        5.6       8,2         380       640         280       400
9        5.7       8.4         430       720         350       500
10        5.8       8.5         450       760         420       600
11        5.8       8,5         480       800         460       650
12        5.8       8.5         480       800         460       640
13        5.6       8.3         480       8oo         450       630
14        5.6       8,2         460       780         440       620
15        5.5       8,l         450       760         430       610
16        5.4       7,9         440       740         420       600
17        5.3       7,9         430       720         410       590
18        5.1       7.5         420       700         400       580
19        5.0       7.3         410       680         400       570
20        4.9       7.2         400       660         390       560
21        4.7       7.0         380       640         380       550
22        4.6       6.7         370       620         370       540
23        4.4       6.5         360       600         360       530
24        4.3       6.2         350       580         350       520
25        4.1       6,0         340       560         340       500
26        4.0       5.8          320      540         330       480
27        4.0       5,7         310       520         320       470
28        3.9       5.6         300       500         310       460
29        3.9       5.5         290       490         300       450
30        3,8        5.         280       480         290       440
Year from planting.






ANNEX 3
Table 5
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Statistics: Rubber
Unit    1973   1978   1983   1988   1993   2003
Without Project
Area - Total              '000 ac   86.5  84.5   82.0   79.5   77.0   70.0
- Mature             '000 ac   69.5  70.0   68.0   65.5   63.5   57.9
Yield                     lb/ac      550   600    650    700    750    850
Production                '000 ton  17.1  18.8   19.7   20.5   21.3   22.0
_       With Project
Area - Total              '000 ac   86.5  78.0   62.0   44.0   30.0   10.0
- Mature             '000 ac   69.5  73.5   60.8   43.3   29.4    9.4
Yield                     lb/ac       550   650    750    800    870  1,050
Production                '000 ton  17.1  21.3   20.4   15.5   11.4    4.4
Incremental Production        '000 ton    -    2.5    0.7   (5.0)  (9.9) (17.6).



ANNEX 3
Table 6
MALAYSIA
WES;TERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Statistics: Coconut
Unit     1973    1978    1983    1988    1993    2003
Without Project
1/
Area-- Total              '000 ac      53.0    51.0    50.0    49.0    48.0    45.0
- Replanted         '000 ac        4.0     5.0      6.0      7.0     8.0    10.0
- Rehabilitated    '000 ac        13.0    14.2    15.5    16.8    18.0    20.0
Yield - Replanted        lb/ac        730      800     930   1,065   1,130   1,265
- Rehabilitated                 530     600      665     730      800     930
- Balance          (copra)     440      440      425     410      400     370
Production - Total        '000 ton     10.5    11.3    12.0    12.8    13.8    15.2
With Project
1/
Area-- Total              1000 ac      53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0    53.0
- Replanted         '000 ac        4.0     9.0    13.0    18.0    23.0    33.0
- Rehabilitated    '000 ac        13.0    19.5    29.5    29.5    27.0    17.0 W
Yield - Replanted         lb/ac       730      865   1,000   1,130  1,265    1,530
- Rehabilitated                 530     665      800     865    930    1,065
- Balance          (copra)     440      530      665     730    800       930
Production - Total       '000 ton      10.5    12.9    17.4    19.2    21.9    27.7
Incremental Production    '000 ton        0        1.6     5.4      6.4      8.1    12.5
1/ Mature area only used in calculating production.



ANNEX 3
Table 7
MAALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Crop Statistics: Cocoa, Coffee and Banana
Unit    1973    1978    1983    1988    1993    2003
COCOA
Without Project
Area - Total            '000 ac      2.2      3.7      5.0     5.0    5.0        5.0
- Mature          '000 ac      0.5      2.8      4.3      4.8    4.4       4.4
Production              ton         15     400      760      920      760      650
(dry beans)
With Project
Area - Total            '000 ac      2.2      6.0    14.0    20.0   25.0        30.0
- Mature          '000 ac      0.5      3.0      8.5    16.4   22.0       28.8
Production              ton         15      540   2,020   4,460   6,520   8,130
(dry beans)
Incremental Production  ton            0      140   1,260   3,540   5,760   7,480
COFFEE
Without Project
Area - Total            '000 ac      3.5      5.0      6.0     7.0    8.0        8.0
- Mature          '000 ac      2.6      4.1      5.4      6.4    7.4       7.4
Production              ton        340      700     970   1,110   1,200   2,130
(dry beans)
With Project
Area - Total            '000 ac      3.5      5.5      8.0    10.0   10.0       10.0
- Mature          '000 ac      2.6      4.1      6.5      8.8    9.4       9.4
Production              ton        340      860   1,410   2,010   2,240   1,130
(dry beans)
Incremental Production  ton            0      160     440      900   1,040  (1,000)
BANANA
Without Project
Area                    '000 ac      4.0      5.0      6.0      7.0     8.0      8.0
Production              '000 ton    5.0       6.25    7.5       8.75   10.0    10.0
(bunches)
With Project
Area                    '000 ac      4.0      5.0      7.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Production              '000 ton    5.0       7.15   12.5    17.85   17.85   17.85
(bunches)
Incremental Production  '000 ton    0           0.9      5.0      9.1    7.85      7.85
I/ Yields are based on number of years from planting and are shown in Annex 3, Table 4.



ANNEX 3
Table 8
MALAYSlA
WESTERN JOHORE,AGRICULTURAL pEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Stati:stics: Pineapple
Unit    1973    1978    19-83    1988    1993    2003
Without Project
Singapore Spanish
Area                   '0Q0 ac.   34.5    24.3       0        0       0        0
Yield-/                ton/ac       5.9     5.9      ..
Production             '000 ton  204      143        0       0        0       0
New Varieties
Area                   '000 ac      0.5    10.7    35.0    35.0    35.0    35.0
Yieldl1                ton/ac       6.5     6.8      6.83    7.0    7.2        8.0
Production             '00) ton:    3      73      238     245      252     280
?otal Production            '000 ton  207     216      238      245     252      280
With Project
Singapore Spanish
Area                    Q00 ac    34.5    19.5       0       0        0       0
Yield-=                ton/ac       5.9:    6.6
Production             '000 ton  204      129        0       0        0-      0
New Varieties
Area         1a'000 ac              0.5    16.5    37.5    39.5   41.5       45.0
Yield-                 ton/ac       6.5     8.2      9.0     9.4   10.1       10.9
Production             '000 ton    3      135      338'    371      419     490
Total Production            tOOO ton  207     264      33&     371      419     490
Lncremental Production    '000 ton    0        48      100     126      167     210
/  Yields shown are for fruit acceptable for canning.  Farm production would be
somewhat higher.



ANNEX 3
Table 9
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Crop Statistics: Oil Palm
Unit    1973    1978    1983    1988    1993    2003
Without Project
Area - Total             '000 ac    0.2      1.0     2.0      3.5     5.0     8.0
- Mature            '000 ac    0       0.4      1.4     2.6     4.1      7.1
Production - ffb         '000 ton   0        1.1     5.8    11.7    19.4    31.1
- oil        '000 ton   0        0.2      1.1     2.4     4.3      6.4
- kernels    '000 ton   0        0.1     0.2      0.5     0.8      1.3
With Project
Area - Total             '000 ac    0.2      8.0    25.0    40.0    50.0    60.0
- Mature            '000 ac    0       0.7    14.0    22.0    44.0    57.0
O       Production - ffb         '000 ton   0        1.8    68.8   208      327     395
- oil        '000 ton   0        0.3    12.7    41.6    67.1    83.0
- kernels    '000 ton   0        0.1      2.4     8.1    13.3    16.4
Incremental Production
- ffb        '000 ton   0        0.7    63      196   308        364
- oil        '000 ton   0        0.1    11.6    39.2    62.8    76.6
- kernels    '000 ton   0        --       2.2     7.6    12.5    15.1
1/ Yields are based on number of years from planting and are shown in Annex 3, Table 4.



ANNEX 3
Table 10
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Statistics: Tapioca, Groundnut and Vegetables
Unit    1973    1978    1983    1988    1993    2003
TAPIOCA
With Project
Area                    '000 ac     0        3.0    15.0    25.0    30.0    40.0
Yield-                 ton/ac        .       9.0    10.0    11.0    12.0    14.0
Production             '000 ton    0        27     150      275     360      560
GROUNDNUT
With Project
Area                    '000 ac     0        0.5     3.0      5.0      7.0     9.0
Yield2/                ton/ac/yr   ..        3.7     3.9      4.2     4.5      4.8
Production             '000 ton    0         1.8    11.7    21.0    31.5    43.2
VEGETABLES
Without Project
Area                    '000 ac     0.1      0.25    0.5      0.75    1.0      1.0
Net Value of
Production:       3/
- financial t:erm47 M$ '000    95       237      474     711      948      948
- economic terms-   M$ '000  (124)   (309)   (618)   (927) (1,240) (1,240)
With Project
Area                    '000 ac     0.1      1.0     5.0      7.0    10.0    10.0
Net Value of
Production:       3/
- financial term 7  M$ '000    95       948   4,740   6,640   9,480   9,480
- economic terms-   M$ '000  (124) (1,240) (6,180) (8,650)(12,400)(12,400)
Incremental Net Value
of Production
- financial terms-  M$ '000       0     711   4,270   5,920   8,530   8,530
- economic terms-.  M$ '000    (0)   (930) (5,560) (7,720)(11,100)(11,100)
1/  Yield of fresh tubers.
2/  Three crops per year assumed.
3/  Estimated for an average mixture of vegetable crops with all labor evaluated at
M$4/man-day.
4/  Estimated for an average mixture of vegetable crops with all labor evaluated at
M$3/man-day.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Social Structure
Introduction
1.        The total population within the project area is about 200,000,
nearly 90% of whom live within the rural farm sector while the other 10%
are located within four semi-urban centres, which mainly serve as market towns
for the farm area. Their populations ranged from 1,300 to 9,000 persons in the
1970 census.
2.        The rural settlement pattern is predominantly of the linear type
stretching along the ditches, the main drains, the link roads, and the coastal
highway. Even the towns are in the form of linear settlements straddling
the coastal highway. They are very poorly linked to the rural farm sector
due to the acute lack of an adequate and well-constructed road network. They
are agriculturally based towns and their rates of growth are slow, mainly
due to the stagnant level of agricultural production in the surrounding area.
Within the rural sector itself, there is an acute shortage of farm and link
roads. This hinders efficient marketing of rural produce and limits social
and economic interactions among the rural community groups. The entire
population within the project area is in a relatively static social and
economic developmental environment, when compared to populations in other
development areas in Malaysia.
3.        The rural population is a young one.  Around 65 to 70% of the
population are under 35 years old. With an average family size of six, it
can be theoretically assumed that only about 30% of the entire family work
on the farm. Labor shortages may arise when the level of education in-
creases, as children with some secondary education often do not return
to the farm. At the beginning of the rubber price slump in 1971, some
of the younger people, who form the main farm labor force, migrated to
Johore Bharu and Singapore in search of better-paid manual jobs.
4.        The racial composition of the project population is 61% Malays,
(comprising the following sub-groups: Javanese, Peninsular Malays, Bugis,
(from South Sulawesi), and Banjaris); 37% Chinese; and 2% Indian. In
the rural areas, the proportion of Malays tends to increase.
5.        The ethnic distribution of the smallholders is as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page  2
MALAYS                   CHINESE
%        Average Holding      _      Average Holding
(ac)                       (ac)
Rubber              75               8.2           25            17.4
Coconut             90               5.0           10             8.0
Pineapple           48               8.8           52            14.6
6.        It is apparent that, although there are more Malay farmers than
there are Chinese, the latter operate bigger holdings than the former
and have higher yields. However, smallholders in both groups are predominantly
owner-operators, except in pineapple farming where 25% of the Chinese
farmers are tenants, many of whom rent land from Malay farmers or operate
on mortgaged lands belonging to Malay farmers. The few Malay tenant farmers
rent land from close relatives.
7.        The Malay farms, especially those producing rubber and coconut,
are more fragmented than the Chinese farms. This has been due to the
traditional law of inheritance according to which every inheritor receives
an equal share in every piece of land, rather than each of them being
alloted a particular parcel. This has caused moderate land fragmentation,
some farmers having as many as six scattered parcels of land.
8.        Most of the Chinese-operated farms are situated near the all-
weather roads while Malay farms tend to be located away from these roads.
The Chinese farmers are more market oriented than the Malay farmers, most
of whom still possess high degrees of subsistence mentality, despite the
fact that they produce mainly cash crops (para 18). They are less innovative
than their Chinese counterparts, as a result of both their value system and
their geographical isolation, and this determines the pattern of their
socio-economic behavior.
9.        The basic differences in the patterns of socio-economic behavior
between Malay and Chinese farmers have been the major factors which have set
these two racial groups economically apart. The present project would
envisage a change in the socio-economic behavior system of the Malay farmers
towards a more commercial orientation and thus would go a long way towards
bridging this economic gap. This indeed is one of the major goals in the
Government's Second Malaysia Plan which adopts a two-pronged strategy of
integrated social and economic development.
The Malay Farming Group
10.       The Malay farming group falls under three major ethnic sub-groups;
namely, the Bugis, the Peninsular Malays, and the Javanese. Each of these
subgroups can roughly be identified with a major crop. The Bugis are
mostly coconut smallholders settled along the coastal regions, the
Peninsular Ralays are often rubber smallholders scattered within the middle
region, while the Javanese are mostly pineapple smallholders occupying the
interior peat soil region.  All the three sub-groups have other minor
crops - such as coffee, cocoa, bananas, or tapioca, mostly planted as
intercrops with the main crops. Their villages stretch along the main



ANNEX 4
Page 3
drains, ditches, and link roads across the entire project region. There
are rarely any clear boundaries demarcating one village from another.
Usually a village is defined as the extent of settlement along a drain,
a ditch, or a road falling under the jurisdiction of a village leader.  A
group of villages forms a sub-district (mukim) which acts as an administrative
unit of a District. The sub-district is under the jurisdiction of a local
Chief (Pengulu), who is directly responsible to the District Officer.
11.       There are about 564 villages in the project area.  The people are
administrativrely linked to the Governmer.t through village development
committees whiich consist of elected village elder and are chaired by the
village heads. The range of issues tackled by these committees is wide,
ranging from family squabbles to petitioning the Government for development
projects.
12.       Above the village committees there are the sub-district develop-
ment committees, consisting of the heads of the villages in the sub-district
and chaired by the Pengulu.  The function of this committee is to act as the
intermediary between the grassroot village committees and the District
development committee. However, these committees have not been given
sufficient emphasis either by the villagers or by the Government.
13.       At the next level there is the District Action Committee chaired
by the District Officer. The members are the various Pengulu within the
.^s      District, the legislative councillors, and the Assistant District Officers.
Special Assistant District Officers have been recently assigned to
coordinate the work at the various committees described above.
14.       The Rural leadership pattern is reflected in the composition of
these committees. When Farmers' Associations (Annex 11) were formed two
years ago in the area, most of the leaders in the existing village committees
and the traditional leaders (village heads) were elected by the farmers to
represent them at all levels in this modern socio-economic organization.
These traditional leaders are mostly middle-aged. In the Pontian FA alone,
five out of seven directors are village heads, while in the Rengit FA it is
four out of seven. The dominance of traditional leaders in the modern
socio-economic organization clearly shows that there is very little
separation of leadership roles between the social and economic aspects
of village life. This high degree of integration of leadership roles
(which is true for each of the three ethnic subgroups) reflects the
homogenous and strongly structural rural social systems through which
the influence system works. 1/ Recognition of this fact should assist
in project implementation, in that the traditional leaders and village
committee could be influential in introducing new agricultural techniques,
in parallel with the PA's.
1/   This situation is just the reverse of that in the Muda Scheme where
most of the elected FA leaders are not traditional leaders. Instead,
they are younger more educated men. In Muda, there is thus a high
degree of separation of leadership roles along social and economic
lines.



ANNEX 4
Page  4
15.       In the FA's within the project area, the elected leaders do not
confine themselves to policy-making. Many of them have participated in the
management activities of the FA's and have carried out activities which would
normally be done by trained extension workers.   There is also a high degree
of integration between the grassroot political leadership and the economic
and social leadership roles. The village heads and many village elders are
in one way or another active in politics.
16.       In all the subgroups, women play very important roles in both the
economic as well as the social spheres. Although their roles are rather
unobtrusive, their influences in the decision making processes are very
significant. In most cases, they are consulted before any major social or
economic decisions are made by the men, as the heads of the households.
Women leaders are emerging in the two FA's within the project area and
active participation by women in PA activities has gone beyond original
expectations.
17.       The strong within-group rural social structure is again mani-
fested by the fact that the three major sub-ethnic identities are still
strongly maintained, even after more than 200 years of living side by
side. The number of intermarriages between these groups is not significant.
However, all thse subgroups identify themselves as Malays and Moslems
within a wider perspective.
18.       Through the years of western cultural influence and the influence
of a monetary economy, some of the Malay farmers have oriented their farming
more toward commercialization than subsistence. A preliminary survey has
shown that 27% of the Malay farmers who are FA members are classified as
highly commercialized, 32% are in the medium category, while 41% are of low
commericial orientation. In other words, the bulk of the Malay farmers
are still subsistence oriented. Malay subsistence mentality may be an
outcrop of their religious orientation, perceiving the present life as a
mere transition to another more meaningful life, the quality of which will
never be determined by material parameters of the present life. However,
many social and economic factors also come into play to sustain these
attitudes.
19.       Past economic development projects always encountered these pro-
blems. For instance, the effectiveness of the coconut rehabilitation scheme
has been reduced by the reluctance of farmers to remove self-sown seedlings
after the old stands have been thinned out. This has been due to farmers'
attitudes in maintaining what they call "security", despite the fact that
they are advised that the thinned stand would produce a better yield.
Moreover, the farmers' traditional practice of excessive planting density
is a manifestation of their fatalistic attitudes, in the face of natural
disasters such as pests, floods, and the ingress of sea water, which
consequently cause low yields.
20.       A very low percentage of Malay farmers are tenants.  Most of them
are owner-operators in all the three main crops.  A high value on individual
land ownership prevails and the possession of land is as much a social status
symbol as an economic asset. However, among the younger farmers, this value



ANNEX 4
Page 5
orientation does not occur in as absolute form as it is among the older
groups. The fact that many young farmers have left their smallholdings,
especially during price slumps, to look for urban jobs supports this point.
They can be considered as being more amenable to the changing pattern of
socio-economic reality, due to their relatively higher level of education
and higher degree of exposure to other cultures.
The Chinese Farmers
21.       Most of the Chinese farms in the project area are highly com-
mercialized. They are roughly equally distributed among the three major
crops and occur mostly along the main link roads and the coastal highway,
interspersed among the Malay settlements. Many of the Chinese farmers do not
rely on the farm for the major portion of their income. Some keep shops to
serve the needs of other farm people, some work in local Chinese-owned
agro-industries such as coconut oil mills, while others own a few fishing
boats, most of which are rented out to fishermen. This economic diversifi-
cation among Chinese farmers evens out income for the whole year, unlike
the case of Malay farmers many of whom rely on seasonal peak flows of income,
between which they have to purchase their daily essential goods on credit
payable at a high rate of interest. This is where the Chinese farmers-cum-
village sundry shop proprietors play their role as creditors.
22.       The location of the Chinese farmers along the link roads and
the coastal highway gives them a more efficient communication with market
twns and other urban centres. They are also socially and economically
well linked to these semi-urban and urban centres and agro-industries, often
through family ownership of transport and processing facilities. These links
enable them to orientate and phase their plantings to suit market demands.
Their higher average farm holdings may be a factor in making them more
amenable to technological innovations. They do not rely much on FA's or
,eooperatives to aid them in marketing since they are well integrated with
the marketing system.
Conclusions
23.       The diversity of crops and social groups within the project area
pose both favorable and unfavorable conditions for agricultural and socio-
economic development. The fact that there are so many government development
agencies to serve the farmers, adds further to the problematic aspects.
Farmers are rather confused as to what source of developmental service they
should turn to when problems are confronted. The favorable conditions are
the agricultural diversification which provides a high degree of economic
flexibility to the area and the existence of a strong system of traditional
community leadership among the farmers.
24.       Agricultural development is the development of people in the final
analysis. In the project area, where it is recommended that there should be
a substantial shift (80%) from the present 87,000 ac of rubber to oil palm,
a large program to convince the rubber smallholders has to be planned and
executed. The question is: what are the incentives needed to motivate farmers



ANNEX 4
Page  6
to change their traditional crops to entirely new crops with which they have
no acquaintance? In the case of replacing rubber smallholdings with oil
palm an added problem has recently appeared. This is the recent favorable
rubber prices. There is also the proposed settlement of farmers on about
60,000 ac of unused peat soils, which involves human problems. Finally, there
is the major problem of inducing sustained conviction and interest on the
part of the farmers in replanting and rehabilitating old crop stands. We
need to know in what ways could the farmers be made aware of the significance
of thinning out their old stands, replanting them with better varieties at
optimal planting distances, using recommended fertilizers at recommended
levels, and planting good intercrops, so that their interests and convictions
do not end when the last of the replanting grant is paid. These are all
questions pertaining to the human aspects of agricultural development.
25.       Looking at the Malay farm population in the project area, there
is more of a need for improvement in the existing socio-economic organizations
(i.e. village development committees, FA's) to provide favorable media for
technological innovations, than for direct extension. The farmers have been
exposed to many innovations in the past decade but very few innovations
survived beyond the trial stage.
26.       It is not that the innovations are incompatible with their culture
but rather that Malay farmers' conception of the loss and gain relationships
from the adoptiorL of innovations prevents sustained interest.  Because of
high degree of susbsistence mentality and security conciousness, their concepts V
of loss and gain relationships are confined to short term considerations.
They would hesitate to take risks in adopting new innovations which require
a few years of waiting before they are positively proven as in the case of
all tree crops and even pineapple.
27.       The Chinese farmers are more cosmopolitan in their economic
contacts than the Malay farmers and hence they are generally more innovative.
Hence, among them there is no need to improve their socio-economic organiza-
tions. Direct diffusion of innovations by extension workers is all that
needs to be done.
Recommendations
(i) Changing Rubber to Oil Palm
28.       The problem of crop changing would mainly lie among the Malay
farmers, who own too little land to accept big risks. However, through
efficient and sustained extension machinery which operates within an
effective grassroot organizational structure, most of the farmers could
be persuaded to change.
29.       It seems that the younger set of farmers are more amenable to this
type of change than the older groups. They are more aware of the low yield
of rubber in their area as compared to other areas while at the same time
they are aware of the economic potential of oil palm.  The government develop-
ment agencies certainly enjoy a higher degree of credibility among them than
among the older groups.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
30.       However, in the socio-economic organizations which would be the
medium for extension under the project (the FO's), the degree and and extent
of active participation is lower for younger farmers. This is because of
the leadership patterns described above where traditional leaders control
all modern organizations. Since the proportion of younger farmers is high,
there is an urgent need to involve more of them in the FO's. Since farmers'
wives play important roles in economic decision making they should not be left
out in the extension effort. There is an urgent need to form strong units for
extension among farm women at all levels.
31.       The present extension philosophy seems to underestimate the degree
of influence the traditional village structure would wield on the farmers.
In the process of persuading the farmers to change, proper utilization
of the existing influence systems in the form of sub-district and village
committees, and the small agricultural units of the FO's should be stressed.
Farmers in the area seldom decide independently of family or village sanctions.
These social sanctions are significant factors determining their socio-economic
behavior.
32.       The existing 564 village development committees may be too numerous
to form effective direct links between the farmers and innovative agencies.
The existing fifteen sub-district committees should form the intermediate
linkages to these agencies. These committees, however, are not being
emphasized by the district administration as much as the village committees
are at present.   It is recommended that these sub-district committees should
be strengthened to form more effective, and manageable links between farmers
and the innovative agencies. Likewise, the District development and action
committees should not only be strengthened but also should play more initiat-
ing roles rather than passively waiting for initiatives from the lower level
committees.
33.       The FOA and DOA should be the prime movers of extension activities.
The delineation of FO boundaries should, as far as possible, be made to co-
incide with the District, sub-district and village boundaries. This would
enable the creation of organically functional agricultural development
centers from which the FO's operate. The optimal membership size should be
between 3,000-4,000 farmers and the locations of the agricultural develop-
ment centers should be within easy reach of the farmers.
34.       To achieve the challenging goal of crop change, adequate numbers
of field extension staff are needed. The staff to farmers ratio should be
the criterion in measuring this adequacy, instead of using staff to acreage
ratio. The ideal ratio for this particular work would be one JAA to 150-200
farmers. There is also a need to have more women JAA's in each FO.
35.       Once the organizational systems are established, improved, and
strengthened, incentives for farmers to change their rubber to oil palm
have to be created. The existing incentive system in the form of replanting
grants may not be enough since many farmers would be tempted to exploit the
*|      grants for other purposes.  Moreover, these grants might all be spent
in paying for the cost of replanting, leaving many farmers without sources



ANNEX 4
Page  8
of income while waiting for their replanted crops to begin producing. The
possibility of this happening may cause farmers to cling to their existing
crops, even though they afford only subsistence income.  Cash crops should
be introduced in conjunction with replanting. There would also be oppor-
tunities for casual labor off the farm, such as feeder drain excavation.
(ii) The Rehadilitation and Replanting of Crops
36.       Responses to the Government rehabilitation and replanting scheme
among coconut smallholders up to June 1973 differed between the races as
shown in the following table:
Malays                  Chinese
No.     Area          No.    Area
(ac)                  (ac)
Rehabilitation             3,682   17,747         1,427    7,091
Replant:Lng                1,150    3,909           350    1,674
37.       Only about 71% of the rehabilitation was done by Malay smallholders
although they constitute 90% of the smallholder population, while in re-
planting activities only 58% of the total participation is from Malays.
This is also true in the pineapple rehabilitation and replanting schemes.
This further confirms the more commercial orientation of the Chinese farmers
in the project area.
38.       For extension work pertaining to rehabilitation and replanting it
is, therefore, imperative to utilize as much as possible the existing influence
systems as described above.  Farmers have shown their ability to rehabilitate
with whatever means they can afford, for example, by constructing their own
field drains.  The fact that many of them have not followed the agencies'
advice concerning rehabilitation or replanting is not so much due to their
unwillingness to innovate but more due to their lack of confidence in the
advice. There indeed has been a credibility gap between the innovative
agencies and the farmers.
39.       It is, therefore, strongly recommended that extension workers
should have proven innovations to show and should know the farmers better.
Extension service should not stop at the production level as mostly is the
case at present. Equal emphasis should be given to improving process-
ing, storage, and marketing. Incentives to produce better quality products
at increased levels are highly correlated with favorable market conditions.
(iii) SettAfgfnt of Farmers on Unused'Peat Soils
40.       Much  of the undeveloped land is already alienated (that is,
privately owned) the remainder is state land and could be sold to settlers
after completion of drainage. The issues to be considered here are as follows:
6



ANNEX 4
Page 9
(a)  Which groups of people are to be settled?
(b) What are their motives for wanting to-participate
in the settlement scheme?
41.       Looking at the relatively youthful population within the project
area, the first criterion for selection should be farmers below 30 years
old. Although there may not be an acute population pressure on land at
present, this problem will eventually arise, considering the rate of
population increase. Moreover, some of the younger farmers are sharecropping
or renting lands from relatives. As population grows, the present farmer-to-.
land ratio may no more be economically favorable. Given the lack of
industrial jobs in the region, the best way to employ these younger farmers
would be by settlement on new land.
42.       Another criterion for selection is the size of the smallholding
related to-the size of the farm family. The low average rural household
income is due to the small size of the smallholdings. It is, therefore,
recommended that the selection for participants should be made among farmers
operating below 5 ac of land. However, priority should be given to tenants
and farmers whose lands are at present under mortgage, even though their
numbers are low.
43.       The above two criteria would help to-enable the selection of
farmers whose motives are entirely for self-improvement.  These land-
hungry farmers would at least guarantee a motivated resettlement population.
Although modest in scale, the resettlement should aim to redistribute the
farm population of the project area rather than to bring in outside settlers.
(iv) Market Towns and Agro-Industries
44.       The lack of market facilities and strategically located market
centers are also reasons for low motivational levels for agricultural
development. If this were to continue, not only would there be a lack of
marketing channels but there would also be a low availability of attractive
consumer goods to increase the utility of money earned from increased agri-
cultural production.
45.       The establishment of agro-industries in selected townships would
go a long way towards improving marketing arrangements and encouraging
urbanization. Urbanization in this context is not only confined to the
establishment of urban centers, but also the establishment of optimal
urban-rural links which would facilitate, among other things, the changing
of the subsistence oriented values of most farmers.
(v) Public Health
46.       The immediate health problem posed by the implementation of the
project is the increasing water surface area, if the drains to be constructed
are not properly operated and maintained.  On the other hand, large areas
of swamp would be drained.  The incidence of malaria and dengue fever are



ANNEX 4
Page 10
currently the major health problem of the project area. However, health
services are being strengthened and an anti-malaria campaign will be
initiated in 1974.
47.       Malnutrition is another health hazard.  As farmers are expected
to double their efforts in the implementation of the project, their ability
to do so has to be considered. A weak, undernourished farmer is certainly
not an economically productive man. The need for nutrition improvement
again justifies the need for more women extension staff.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Project Works
1.        Project works would improve the drainage facilities over a gross
area of 331,200 ac in Western Johore (Maps 10691 and 10692), include
on-farm drains, roads and an intensive program of agricultural supporting
services. They would also provide about 29 miles of coastal embankments
with drainage control gates to prevent salt water intrusion. The southern
part of the area is unprotected from sea water intrusion and has only a
very rudimentary drainage system. The northern part of the area, however,
has a coastal embankment and an intertal drainage system, which has become
inadequate due to opening up of the hinterland.   Agricultural Development
Centers (ADC's) would be constructed throughout the area as centers for
dissemination of all agricultural supporting services. The project is the
first of two proposed phases. Phase II would consist of similar development
over an area of about 450,000 ac-along the coast immediately to the north.
Engineering Works
The Coastal Embankment and Gates
2.        The coastal embankment to prevent saline intrusion would be con-
structed from Sg 1/ Sanglang to the southern tip of the project area. It
would be located about a quarter of a mile inside the coastal mangrove swamps
and would have an earth section 10 ft wide at the top with 3:1 side slopes.
Top level would be 9.5 ft above MSL. Soil would be obtained from excavation
by dragline from a borrow pit on the inland side of the bund 45 ft from
the toe of the bund. 14 tidal control gates would be constructed to allow
drainage water to discharge to the sea. They would be reinforced concrete
structures with steel gates, designed for a discharge of 100 cusecs per sq
ml. The gates would be closed at high tide and opened during falling tides.
Gate keepers' quarters would be provided adjacent to the gates.
The Drainage System
3.        The contours run nearly parallel to the coastline rising gradually
from about 4.0 ft above MSL at the coastal bund to 33 ft above MSL in the
foothills. The drainage system, therefore, consists of some natural rivers
and many dug drains running at right angles to the coast. The principle
*        1/   Sg - Sungei - Malay word for river.



ANNEX 5
Page  2
used in designing the drainage system is to drain the hinterland (25.0 ft
above MSL) directly to the sea by means of "high level" drains or natural
canalized rivers and to drain the low-lying land by a separate drainage
system through tidal control gates.
4.        In the south of the project area, where the coastal strip is
narrow with little  hinterlana, a coastal bund would be built and the existing
drains at about half-mile intervals would be widened and improved. A total
of about 32 mi of drain would be improved.
5.        The rivers throughout the area would be canalized by enlarging
their channels to deal with the design flow and by improving their aligmuent
to reduce length and thereby increase the hydraulic gradient. These rivers
would only drain the hinterland and in their lower reaches they would be
confined within embankments. These embankments would prevent the lower
lands being flooded by the rivers and by high tides. At locations where
these river embankments are necessary, new main drains (collector drains)
parallel to the embankments would be provided for the low-lying land which
oould discharge into the sea through control gates. The rivers: Sg Benut,
Sg Pinggan, Sg Sanglang, Sg Ayer Baloi, Sg Pontian Besar and Sg Pontian
Kechil would be enlarged and canalized. The channel section would be
designed for a runoff of 80 cusecs per sq mi. Because of the urban
development at the mouth of the Sg Pontian Kechil, a major part of the flood
flow from the upper catchment of the river would be diverted through a
"high level" drain discharging into the Sg Pontian Besar near its mouth.
A total of 36 miles of rivers would be improved.
6.        In the north of the project area, where there are existing drainage
systems (Rengit, Tampok and Sg Pinggan), drainage improvements would be
effected. The hinterland would be drained by converting both Rengit and
Tampok main drains into "high levels" drains i.e. they would drain only the
hinterland above 25 ft above MSL and would be bunded in the lower reaches.
They would have open outlets to the sea. New main (collector) drains would
be excavated parallel to them on each side to take care of local drainage
and would discharge through newly constructed tidal control gates at the
coastal embankment. About 68 mi of new main drains would be included.
7.        In the existing drainage schemes, the area has been compartmentalized
by cross-drains, which are fed from lateral or internal drains every half
mile with control gates to regulate water level in dry periods. A new cross
drain would be excavated in the hinterland behind Rengit and Tampok schemes
at 25 ft above MSL.
8.        Hitherto undeveloped areas in the hinterland, mostly peat, would be
drained by a series of new drains at half-mile intervals, which would dis-
charge into the rivers. A total of 150 mi of new drain would be dug. Drain-
age controls would be provided to retain water in dry periods. Only temporary
structures would be built initially on the peat soils because of high sinkage.
Due to the volume of flood waters in the Sg Benut and Pontian Besar basins,
small retention basins of earthfill construction with control gates and
spillways would be built in their upper reaches to retain flood waters in the
peak rainy season. Final design of these structures is not yet complete.



,AXNI, 5J
Page 3
*        9.        Feeder drains would be excavated every 220 yd to convey farm
runoff to internal drains and main drains (Map 10692). Quantities are
shown in Annex 9. These feeder drains would make it easy for the farmers
to dig their own on-farm drains since they would never have to dig more
than 100 yd in length. Control structures would be provided when necessary.
For tree crops the farm drains are generally 40 yd apart to a depth which
depends on soil properties. These drains are very small usually about three
feet wide at the top, one to two feet wide at the bottom and two feet deep.
It is important not to drain deeply in acid-sulphate soils, thereby resulting
in aerationL which leads to extreme acidity development causing severe
nutrition problems, but rather to have a flow of water to leach out the acid.
In the past farmers have not completed all necessary farm drains because
the outlets were not adjacent to their land. The feeder drains would remove
this constraint. Farmers would be expected to maintain these drains.
Construction and maintenance of farm drains is stipulated in replanting
programs and work is inspected.
Roads and Bridges
10.       New roads 10 ft wide would be constructed along all existing and
new internal drains at half-mile intervals. Bridges would be built across
main and internal drains wherevever necessary to maintain communications.
These farm roads and bridges would be designed for light vehicular traffic
suitable for transporting the farm produce to collection points on surfaced
roads, where heavy trucks would take the produce to market or processing
plant.  The roads along internal drains would be surfaced with laterite.
Quantities are shown in Annex 9. Roads along main drains would be asphalted
in due course by the Public Works Department. A transportation study is
being commenced shortly by Government to establish collection points for
the various crops to ensure farm-to-market transport is efficient.
Agricultural Center and ADC's
11.       An agricultural center would be built to serve both this project
and the second phase. It would serve as Project Headquarters for the
Authority, the Department of Agriculture and MARDI. The existing Pari;
Botak Station would be expanded to accommodate both the Department of Agri-
culture and MARDI. Copra drying facilities would be provided through FAMA
at suitable centers in the area. Laboratory facilities would not be included
in the project since central laboratories in Kuala Lumpur under DOA and
MARDI can deal with requirements. Eight additional ADC's would be corstructed,
in addition to the two already existing, to accommodate the FO's and other
extension agencies.
Phase II
12.       During tne project implementation the DID would carry out SuLveys,
investigations and preliminary design for the Phase II area. The objective
would be for Ministry of Agriculture to prepare a feasibility study by mid-
.       1976, for Bank consideration.



ANNEX 5
Page  4
Operation and Maintenance
13.       The DID would be responsible for 0 & M of the project as they are
for the existing drainage schemes, where 0 & M is proceeding satisfactorily.
Large drains which have to be kept in use, would be excavated by draglines,
and rivers by dredgers. Smaller drains would be maintained by small con-
tracts with Village Chiefs (Ketua Kampong). This is current practice and
State Government policy. Every year a schedule of rates for standard works,
such as grass clearing and excavation of small drains, is agreed at State
level by all concerned and thereafter, contracts are let at these rates.
Village chiefs have the work carried out by the people of their villages.
The system is working well and ensures some return to the people who pay
drainage rates. Special care would be taken to maintain water levels in
acid-sulphate soils during dry periods by retaining water behind control
gates and by flushing drains in rainy periods.
Drainage Design Criteria
14.       The DID has a well staffed and competent design office, which has
designed many similar structures and drains over the past 30 years. The
following criteria have been used in designing the project.  The design
of Compartment No. 2, Sg Pontian Kechil basin is shown in Table 1 as an
illustrative example.
Design Runoff
15.       The design runoff, based on flood frequency studies for a cycle of
50 to 100 years, would be 80 cusec per sq mile for major rivers and internal
drains. This has been recommended by the New Zealand hydrological engineer-
ing group currently working with DID. Internal (or lateral) drains would
be spaced at half-mile intervals, but in this basin, many drains already
exist. A study of the alignment of these drains indicates that most of them
had been well aligned. They would be improved where necessary. The existing
drains selected for improvement and new internal drains proposed for the
basin are as shown on the Project Plan (Map 10691). Feeder drains would be
spaced at 220 yd (10 Chain) intervals. On areas which have been alienated,
the alignment of the drains would run along lot boundaries (Map 10692).
Major Drains
15.       The Sg Pontian Kechil forms the major drain for the basin.  The
outlet of the river is thickly populated, and improvement to the river would
involve expensive land compensation. The possibility of diverting the
hinterland drainage was investigated, and it was found that this is feasible.
Accordingly, a high level drain would be excavated diverting the hinterland
drainage to Sg Pontian Besar.  With the hinterland runoff diverted, the
existing section of Sg Pontian Kechil is sufficient to cope with the drainage
of the remaining surrounding land and no improvement works other than bunding
the low stretches of the river at the outlet end would be required. The



ANNEX 5
Page 5
design calculations for the river and the high level drain are attached in
Table 1.
Structures
16.       Water control structures would be located along internal drains
where necessary to regular the water level in the drains during dry weather,
particularly in acid-sulphate soils. These would also serve as bridges.
Light traffic, medium traffic and main road bridges would also be provided
to meet access requirements. Tidal control gates would be provided along
the coastal embankment at about three mile intervals.






DESIGN OF SG. PONTIAN KECHIL HIGH LEVEL DRAIN AND SG. PONTIAN KECHIL(UPPER)
Chainage     Water Level  Distance        Fall         Slope         Catchment    Runoff         Discharge    Bed Level    Depth           Slide Slope    Bed Width
----------------------- ft   --------------                          --sq. mi.-   ------- c.f.s. -------    ------- -ft -------
0            7.00                                                   22.85         80            1,828        - 8.00       15.00           2 = 1         35'-0"
9,000       0.45        1 = 20,000
9,000            7.45                                                  22.85         80            1,828        - 7.55       15.00           2 = 1          35'-0"
17,000       0.85        1 = 20,000
26,000            8.30                                                  19.38         80            1,550        - 5.70       14.00           2 = 1          35'-0"
6,500       1.20        1 =  5,417
32,500            9.50                                                  15.27         80            1,220        - 0.50       10.00           2 = 1          24'-0"
9,500       7.00        1 =  1,357
42,000           16.50                                                   8.00         80              640        + 9.50        7.00           2 = 1           9'-0"
3,000       5.50        1 =    545
45,000           22.00                                                   7.15         80              572        +16.00        6.00           2 = 1           71-0"
DESIGN OF SG. PONTIAN KECHIL(LOWER)
0            3.00                                                   15.43         80            1,235        - 5.00       8'=0"           2 = 1         45'-0"
26,000       4.50        1 =  5,780
26,000            7.50                                                   0            80                         + 1.50       6'-0"           2 = 1           6'-0"
Sample calculation for Sg. Pontian High Level Drain                                               Legend
Chainage0                                                                                         Q = Quantity in c.f.s.
Catchment 22.85 sq/ mile                                                                      A = Quantitin  area
Runoff 80 cusec/sq. mile                                              ~~~~~~~~~~A = Cross Section area
Runoff 80 cusec/sq. mile                                                                      P= Wetted Perimeter
*. Discharge 22.85 x 80 = 1,828 cusec                                                         N = Constant, based on bed roughness
Water Level   + 7.00                                                                          N = Cope
Bed Level      - 8.00
Depth of flow  15.00                                                                           c.f.s. = cusecs = cu. ft. per sec.
Proposed bed width 35'-0", side slope 2 = 1No er
Q = 1-486 x R2/3 x S1/2                                                                          te   Chainage runs from mouth of river or drain to upstream
N
A/P = R
A = (35 + 2 x 15) x 15 = 975
P     2 T  x 15 + 35 = 102. 1                                                                                                                                     3 
(D X
R = 975/102.1 = 9.55                                                ~                                                                                               kn
R2/3  =  4.50
N     =  0.025
S     =  1 = 20,000
V     =  1.486/0.025 x 4.50 x It 120,0n0  = 1.89
Q     =  975 x 1.89  =  1840 cusec
August 30, 1973






ANNEX 6
MAIAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procei;sing Plants
Plant required during construction period -/
Coconut
Copra drying center, 6 ton/day                           150,000
Cocoa
One unit, 4 ton/day                                      100,000
*             Coffee
One unit, 3 ton/day                                      150,000
Tapioca
First unit for chips, 40 ton/day                         200,000
Cost of second unit (due in 1979) for starch           2,500,000
Groundnuts
One unit, 3,300 ton/year                                 500,000
Spare parts                                              400,000
TOTAL                                       4,000,000
*        1/   See Annex 3, Table 3 for processing plant schedule up to 2003.






ANNEX 7
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHCRE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment LLst 1/
1.     Operation and Maintenance Equipment
Item                      Number   Unit Cost   Total
----Us$ '000 ----
Dragline, 3/4 yd3                     10        40          400
Hydraulic excavator, 1/2 yd3          10        30          300
Cutter-suction dredge, 8"              2       400          800
Dump truck, 3 ton                     20        12          240
Tractor, 60 hp with blade             20        15          300
Grader, 120 hp, 6-wheel               10        30          300
Road Roller, 5 ton                     8        15          120
Truck, 5 ton                           5         6           30
Field vehicle                          4         5           20
Sub-Total:                          2,510
*Sares and Contingency                                      590
Total:                          3,100
2.     Equipment for Agricultural Development Centers
Field vehicle                         10         5           50
Truck, 5 ton                          20         6          120
Farm tractor, 45 hp                   30        10          3
Sub-Total:                            470
Spares and Contingency                                      130
Total:                            600
Overall Contingency:                          1,100
Grand Total:                                  41h800
1/ This list has been prepared for estimating purposes and would be adjusted
as necessary during project implementation. The operation and maintenance
equipment would be purchased towards the end of construction.






*                                                                                                            N,I
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICnLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
7 . o EFriga
item                                                                    Unit        Quantity          Rats         Foreign  Ld ose           Total             F-oEiga      Local      Total           E.thagei
-                    ~~~~~        ~         ~~(mi$)  ------5M Th--dos -0---------S Thousad- ---
1.   Co-atai Bards
(M)     Lead arquisition                                               ai             150        3,000              -         450          450                  -         190         190                 -
lii)    Clearing                                                       or             650          350              140         90         230                 60          40         I00                60
(iii)   Earth-orks-buud & drains                                     an yd      1,600,000            2.10        2,200      1,170        3,370               930          500       1,430                65
(in)    Croak alaosres                                                 No              61        5,000              170        130         300                 70          60         130                 55
(v)     Tarfiag                                                      eq yd        955,600            0.60           -         550          550                  -         250         250                 -
Sub-Total                                                                                                2,510      2,390        4,900             1,000        2,100       3,000                50
2.   River Inaravanouts,  High Lani D-raine and Cullctotr Drains
(i)     Lead anq.isition                                               at           3,000        3,000              -       9,000        9,000                 -        3,900       3,900                -
(ii)    Cleoring                                                       aE           4,570          35J              960       640        1.600               410          290         700                60
(iiI)   Earthworks                                                   on yd    13,150,000             2.00        17,400     9,400       26,800             7,105        4,285      11,400                65
Sub-Total                                                                                               18,360    19,040        37,400             7,525        8,475      16,000                50
3.   Dr-ins (maim, initroal and feedar)
(a) Emprovemeota Eu exissing draine
(i)  Lead acquisition                                         at            880        2,500              -        2,200       2,200                  -          950         950                -
(ii)  Clearing                                                 at           1,400         350              300        190         490                125           85         210                60
(iii)  Eaathworks                                             cu yd     1,500,000             1.95        1,9080 1,010            21.                 600          440       1,240                65
Sub-7otal1                                                                                               2,200      3,400        5,600               925        1,475       2,400                40
(b)  Coastrurtion of new mam and -nt-rul drata-
(i)  Laud ouqoisitiou                                         ac           1,184       1,000              -        1,200        1,200                 -          510         510                -
(ii)  Cla"ring                                                 en           1,680         350              350        230          580               150          100         250                60
fiil   Eacthworks                                            an yd     2,200,000             1.30        1,850      1,020        2,870               800          440       1,240                65
Sub-Total                                                                                               2,200       2,450        4,650               950        1,050       2,000                50
(t) Feeder Drains
(i)  Clea-rin                                                 a           7,800          350             410       2,320       2,730                175        1,000      1.175                 15
(li)  Ear-tworbs                                             cu yd    11,300,000             lO.        1,760      10,010       11,770               725        4,300      5,025                 15
Sub-Total                                                                                               2,170      12,330       14,500               900        5,300       6,200                15
4.   Structunres
(i)     Tidal Control Gates                                            LS          -               _            2,250       2,150        4,400             1,100          900       2,000                55
(Oil    Bsdges                                                         Li                  -                    4,600       4,000        8,600             2,100        1,700       3,800                55
(iii)   Water Control Snructurss, Culnerts. atc.                      Lt           -                            4,600       4,700       10,200             2,400        2,000       4,400                55
Suib-total                                                                                             12,350      10,850       23,200             5,600        4,600      10,200                55
5.   Roads
Lat-ral asd Fe- Rnods                                                   nu yd      1,820,000            7,00        5,750       7,050      12,800              2.500       3,000       5,500                45
6.   Inmouuding Duos and iau.ru.irs - Sg Bnnt
and Sg PEnnian Bsar                                                                                               5,960      3,840        9,000              2,600       1,600       4,200                60
Total DID Wo-ks                                                                                        51,500      61,350      112,850            22,000       26,400      48,600                45
7.   Agriculturai Leeopment Cantros                                             LS                                         750       1,750        2,500                320         750       1.070                30
dgricuinurs7  Contate  and Stations                                        LS                                         250          5           800                110         240         350                30
8.   Pnonossing Plants during ,-nstrunti-o (Sea Ann-n 6)                        LS                                       1,900       2.100        4,000                670         900       1,570                45
Land anquisitinn for AgEi-cl tura                                       LS                                          -           250         250                   -        110         110                -
2,900      4,650        7,550               1.100      2,000       3,100                35
9.   Eqnip--nt for  0 &   e and ADC'c (Sec An-ne  7)                            IS                                      11,200         -         11,200              4,800         -        4,800                100
Totul DID and Agccttl]tnr-                                                                             65,600      66,000      131,600             27,900      28,600      54,500                40
10.   Engineering and Superisioni                                                '                                        1r000       9,0OO0      10,000                400       3,800        4,200               10
11.   Replantiug grunts during C-nnt,,cti-n                                      LS                                                   8,100        8,100                  -       3,700        3,700               -
12.   0 & 0 aud AtriculurL Irnumns during Cnnstrncti-u                           LS                                       2,000       9,300       115300                700       4.000        4,700               15
13,   physical C-sringanrm--  i 157, of Cini I Worku                                                                      9,400      10.600       20,000              4,200       4,300        8,500               50
priue Contingencies, in actordance with Caidel-nr  dantd
January 17, 1974                                                                                                   27,000      25,000      52,000              L.l800      10,600      22,405                50
Grand Total                                                                                           105,000    128,000       233,000-/           45,000      55,000      100,003               45        r
Rate of Eabange US$ 1 = M$2.33
I./ Exrhange encore duo to rounding.



MALAYSIA                                                         ANNEX 8
Table 2
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1/
Estimated Cost by Civil Works and Equipment Contracts
CONTRACT                                             DESCRIPTION                                                  Estimated Value
Foreign                Local                 Total
DID WORKS                                --- -- '000 ---- - ---- - ------r
By DID                          Coastal Bund and Gates - Sg Sanglang to Sg Pontian Besar             2,260                  1,620                 3,880
ICR  Contract 1                    Coastal Band and Gates - Sg Pontian Besar to Kukup                   2,610                  2,090                 4,700
ICB  Contract 2                    Kukup basin complete, including main and internal drains,
roads, bridges and structures                                        3,210                  2,330                 5,540
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Kukup basin                                              200                 1,220                 1,420
ICB  Contract 3                   Pontian Kechil basin complete                                         2,840                  2,040                 4,880
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Pontian Kechil basin                                    150                    920                 1,070
ICB  Contract 4                    Ayer Hitam basin complete                                             1,800                 1,300                 3,100
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Ayer Eitam basin                                        100                    640                   740
1CB  Contract 5                    Pontian Besar basin complete                                         7,060                  5,140                12,200
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Pontian Besar basin                                     260                  1,540                 1,800
ICB  Contract 6                    Ayer Baloi basin complete                                            2,610                  1,890                 4,500
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Ayer Baloi basin                                        170                  1,030                 1,200
TCB  Contract 7                    Sg Sanglang Basin complete                                           3,540                  2,560                 6,100
DED Contoncts                Feeder drains - Sg Sanglang                                             270                  1,570                 1,840
ICB  Contract 8                    Sg Pinggan basin complete                                            3,800                  2,750                 6,550
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Sg Pinggan                                              240                 1,410                  1,650
ICB  Contract 9                   Sg Benut basin improvements complete                                 14,200                 10,400                24,600
DID Contracts                Feeder drains - Sg Benut basin (many contracts)                         700                 4,080                  4,780
ICB  Contract 10                   Storage Reservoirs                                                   5,480                  3,970                 9.450
Total DID Works                              51,500                48,500                100,000
Lend acquisition for DID                                               -                   12,850                12,850
Total for DID with Land                      51,500                61,350               112,850
AGRICULTURE
Various small contracts            Construction of ADC's                                                  750                  1,750                 2,500
Various small contracts           Agricultural Centre for Phase I & II                                    250                    550                   800
Peat Station and Parit Botak Station                                    2
Various smell contracts            Processing Plants (See Annex 6)                                      1,900                  2,100                 4,000
Total Agriculture                             2,900                 4,400                 7,300
Land acquisition for agriculture                                                              250                   250
Total for Agriculture with Land               2,900                 4,650                 7,550
TCB  Contract 11                   Equipment for 0 & M by DID                                          11 200                    -                  11 200
and for ADC's (See Annex 7)                                         65;6                  66,000                131 600
Engineering and Supervision                                          1,000                  9,000                10,000
Replanting grants during construction period                            -                   8,100                 8,100
0 & M and Agricultural Services during construction period           2,000                 9,300                 11,300
Physical Contingencies 15% of Civil Works                            9,400                 10,600                20,000
Price Contingencies (based on Guidelines dated Jan. 17, 1974)    27,000                    25,000                52,000
105,000               128,000               233,000
1/ This estimate to be used for cost control of the project.
2/ Made up of M$ 85,50o,000 for Contracts 1-10 and DID Force A/C Work and Ml 14,500,000 for DID Rural Works Contracts for Feeder Drains.
3/ Errors in exchange conversion due to rounding.
February 8, 1974



MALAYSIA                                  ANNEX 8
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT              Table
Calculation for Schedule I of Loan Documents
-uS$-Million
Sub-Total of Works &  Equipment                            56.5
Equipment                                               4.8
Less Land Costs                                        51.6
Basic Civil Works-/                                    46.1
Price Contingency (See Table 4)                       17.4
Total Civil Works                 63.5
Foreign Element                     Total
-US$--------------- YS$ Million------------
Basic Civil Works                23.1                             46.1
Price Contingency                 8.7                             17.4
Finance 50%                      3 1.8 = 32                       63.5
Equipment                         4.8                              4.8
Price Contingency (part)          1 036.2                          1.2
6.-  660
Unallocated                              7
(Physical Contingency and
Balance Price Contingency)
Amount of the
Loan Allocated               % of
Category              (Expressed in          Expenditures
Dollar equivalent)        to be Financed
I.   Civil Works               32,000,000              50% of total
expenditures
II.   lquipment and
vehicles                  6,ooo,ooo               100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  Unallocated                 7,000,000
TOTAL:     45,ooo,ooo
/ Includes Agricultural Building and Processing Plants (43.0 + 3.1).



MALAYSIA                               ANNEX 8
Table 4
WESTERLN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Revised Price Contingencies - Feb. 1974
Year            Type of Work                 % 1/           Escalation
Annual Expenditur-e
_____--___--______--- US$ ffl=ion  --------------
CIVIL WORKS -
1974  1                  2.5                    12                 0.3
2                 11.0                   22                  2.4
3                 13.0                   30                  3.9
4                 13.0                   38                  4.9
5                  8.0                   46                  3.7
6                  4.0                   54                  2.2
EQUIPMENT 3/
1                   w                     9
2                                        16 
3                  2.0                   21                  0.4
4                  4.0                   26                  0.8
5                  1.0                   31                  0.3
6                  0.9                   36                  0.3
7.9
OTHER v
1                  2.5                    5                  0..
2                  5.6                   10                  o.6
3                  3.6                   15                  0.5
4                  2.4                   20                  0.5
5                  2.5                   25                  0.6
6                  1.6                   30                  0.5
TOTAL:     77.6                                      22.0
1/ Percentage Escalation based on Bank Guidelines dated January 17, 1974.
2/ From Annex 9, Table 1.  Civil Works include Physical Contingencies.
3/ From Annex 9, Table 1, Equipment, include Equipment and Processing Plants (4.8 + 3.1).
4/ From Annex 9, Table 1.



ANNAE 9
Table 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRIaJIATRAL DEVELOPMENT FROJPCT
Schedule of Expenditares
--------Maslaysian Fiscal Year     -
1974.  175   1976   1977   1978   1979    TOTAL
-    -                                        -JtrLi
1. Capital Expenditures
Civil Workas              2.5   11.0   11.0  11.o    6.o    1.5    43.0
Phys ical
contingencies        -      -     2.0    2.0    2.0    2          ,
2.5   11.0   13.0  13-0    8.0    4.0       1
EquSpment                  _       -     2.0    4.0    1.0    0.9      7.9
Other
Land                   2.0    3.0    0.6      -      -      -       5.6
Engineering            0.5    1.2    1.2    0.5    0.5    0.3       4.2
Replanting              -     0.7    1.0    1.0    1.0      -       3.7
0&M during
construction          _     0.7    0.8    0.9    1.0              4.7
2-5   .+6   .6   24   _L5    1.6            18.2
TTIAL             5.0  16.6  18.6  19.4   11.5    6.          77.6
Price Contingencies a            3.0    4.8    6.2    4.6       4      22.4
GRAND TOTAL            5.4  19.6  23.4   25.6   16.1    9.9    100.0
2. Recurrent Costs
Operation & Maintenasce   600   600   1,000  2,000   3,000  3x500
(by DID)
Agricultural Development   -    200     400    700      800  1,000
Centers
Other Agricultural Costs   -    100      250    5G0     700  1,000
TOTAL             600   900   16    3s200
=  =~~~~~~~~14~0



ANNEX 9
Table 2
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                    US$ Million Eauivalent
1975
1st                                                 0.5
2nd                                                  2.0
1976
1st                                                 6.0
2nd                                                 11.0
1977
1st                                                17.0
2nd                                                 23.0
1978
1st                                                29.0
2nd                                                35.0
1979
1st                                                39.0
2nd                                                43.0
1 980
1st                                                45.0



ANNEX 10
Page 1
MALAY'SIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Organizations
Introduction
1.        There are many agricultural authorities, departments and boards
involved in the project (Chart 7988). This annex explains the origins and
functions of the various bodies, which would act as agents of the project
organization and would be responsible to the Project Director while receiving
technical direction from their headquarters when necessary. The overall
management of the project would be provided by the Western Johore Agricultural
Development Division under the Minister of Agriculture.
Organizations
2.        The names of the organizations involved are:
(a) Farmers Organization Authority (FOA)
i. Farmers Organizations (FO)
4q                 ii. Bank Pertanian Malaysia (BPM) (Agricultural Bank)
iii. Cooperatives
(b) Department of Agriculture (DOA)
(c) Drainage and Irrigation Department (DID)
(d) Malaysian Agricultural Research and Development
Institute (MARDI)
(e) Rubber Research Institute of Malaysia (RRIM)
(f) Rubber Industry Smallholders Development Authority
(RISDA)
i. Malaysian Rubber Development Corporation (MRDC)
ii. Federal Land Development Authority (FELDA)
(g) Malaysian Pineapple Industries Board (MPIB)
i. Pineapple Industries Marketing Corporation (PIMC)
ii. Pineapple Cannery of Malaya (PMC)
iii. Consolidated Pineapple Sales (CPS)



ANNEX 10
Page  2
(h) Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA)
(i) State Economic Development Corporation (SEDC)
(j) Veterinary Department.
3.        The major organiz;:.ons concerned with the project are the FOA
to manage the FO's (paras 4-7), the DID to construct the drainage works and
later maintain them (paras 17-19), DOA (paras 11-16), RISDA (paras 25-28)
and MARDI (paras 20-23) to provide the agricultural inputs and, lastly,
MPIB (paras 31-32) to deal specifically with the pineapple industry.
FOA
4.        The FOA was established by Federal Act in June 1973, under the
Ministry of Rural Economic Development, to coordinate and control the
activities of Farmers Associations (FA's) and agro-based cooperatives, as
well as to undertake agricultural development in areas declared Farmers
Development Areas (Under Sec 10 of the Act).
5.        FA's have been established in many parts of Malaysia since 1967.
They are located at strategic areas so that they are close to farmers
and supply the bulk of their needs. FA's provide: agricultural extension;
training in new techniques; Credit (through BPM) farm inputs; mechanical
equipment; marketing of produce; agro-processing; and transportation of
produce.
6.        102 FA's now exist in Malaysia.  They have been a great success.
Two operate in the project area at present. Agro-based cooperatives have
been operating all over Malaysia since 1922. They provide farmers with
credit and become involved to a varying extent in transport and marketing
of farm produce. 1,785 agro-based coops exist in Malaysia, with varying
success.
7.        FOA is in the process of consolidating the FA's and Coops into
Farmers' Organizations (FO's), which would continue to provide the above
agricultural services. As soon as the project commences, additional FO's
would be established throughout the area at appropriate locations. At
present ten is considered the number required for Phase I, based on one FO
per 3,000 farmers.
8.        F0's would provide the main thrust of agricultural development
in the project area. They would operate from Agricultural Development
Centers (ADC), where all the services required by the farmer would be made
available (Chart 7988). Each FO would be s'taffed by a General Manager
(Agricultural Assistant - AA) and five division heads (Junior Agricultural
Assistant - JAA), supplied by the DOA. The divisions would cover: extension
and home economics; extension education and training; credit and savings;
trading and farm inputs; and organization and production.



ANNEX 10
Page  3
Field assistants and other staff would cover processing, accounts, equipment
and transportation. Staff from the other organization's extension services
would also operate through the ADC's (paras 11, 22, 24 and 27). Total
agriculture staff requirements for 10 FOs would be 10 AAs and 50 JAAs.
Each FO would normally have about 10 Small Agricultural Units within its
area, which would be represented by locally elected farmers and, covering
a smaller number of farmers, would more readily disseminate the new agronomic
techniques and other information. One Unit would cover about 300 farmers.
Some JAA's would be women (Annex 4), since women have a strong economic
influence on the farmers' actions.
B P M
9.        The Agricultural Bank was established in 1969.  BP! has progress-
ively increased its role as the central agency for agricultural credit. It
has requested a Bank loan for a project involving oil palm plantings on
estates and agro-industries in the private sector.
10.       In the project area, BPM would operate through the FO's as local
credit centers. Details of the type of credit needed for tree crops would
be worked out over the next 12 months, since previous experience of the
BPM has been with paddy production loans. Tree crops and crop processing
and marketing would need longer-tenm loans, but BPM has expressed its
intention of being the prime credit source in the area.
Cooperatives
11.       Of 29 cooperatives in the area, only about a quarter are fully agro-
based. They are mainly involved in the pineapple industry, where they supply
fertilizer and market pineapples. Some are involved in the coconut industry
but on a small scale. Since, at present, farmers can obtain credit from
cooperatives as well as FO's, there is a tendency for loans to be misused
and then farmers default on cooperative loans, unless they are marketing
through the coop. The FOs would eventually eliminate this competitive
credit system and coordinate the activities of FOs and coops, so that
duplication of effort ceases.
DOA
12.       This is the oldest established agricultural agency in Malaysia,
from which all other agricultural institutions originated. It operates both
at Federal and State level, having a Director-General and staff in Kuala
Lumpur and a State Director of Agriculture in Johore, with staff throughout
the State. The functions of the DOA in the project area would be:
(a) to train staff for the FO's and work closely with
them to perform their tasks;
(b)  to carry out soil surveys where required;



ANNEX 10
Page 4
(c)  to promote better utilization of modern agronomic
techniques and, in particular, crop protection;
(d)  to arrange agricultural education and training;
(e)  to arrange distribution of new or improved planting
materials;
(f)  to organize and supervise coconut replanting and
rehabilitation which includes inter-planting with
cocoa, coffee and bananas;
(g)  to provide technical back-up to the FO's for coconuts,
cocoa, coffee, bananas, and all field crops;
(h)  to liaise with RISDA on oil palm plantings;
(i)  to liaise closely with MARDI in research needs and
furthering development of new varieties;
'j)  to manage propagation and demonstration plots; and
(k)  to share with MARDI the project headquarters, the
peat station and Parit Botak Station.
13.       Foliar and soil analysis would be undertaken in Kuala Lumpur
at DOA headquarters.
14.       The DOA would expand during the project construction period to
ensure that its services were intensified and sustained. The increases
are estimated to be as follows:
1974      1975       1976      1977       1978
AO's       2          4          6         6           6
AA's       1          4          8        12          12
JAA's      -         10         20        30          40
Requirements would be met from present training plans (Annex 14).
DID
15.       The DID was established in 1932 from the Hydraulic Branch of the
Public Works Department. At that time its prime responsibility was the
development and improvement of paddy cultivation with a view to making
Malaysia self-sufficient in rice. Other responsibilities included river
conservancy, drainage and flood control.
16.       The DID has been responsible for the design and construction of
numerous irrigation and drainage schemes throughout Malaysia.  It has only
used outside consultants for the design and supervision of the Muda and                0



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Kemubu irrigation schemes.  All drainage schemes have been wholly carried
out by DID. They are responsible for new construction and for 0 & M of the
schemes on completion. Seven drainage schemes are currently operated in
Johore.
17.       The DID has a Director-General and Staff at Federal level and a
State Director and staff in the State of Johore, which totals eight engineers
at present. Tables 1 and 2 attached show the staff required during construc-
tion and for later 0 & M for the project.
4ARDI
18.       MARDI was established by a Federal Act in 1969 and became opera-
tional in March 1971 as staff became available from DOA. Its ftnction is
to lead national agricultural research and development in all fields,
except rubber (see RRIM).
19.       MARDI is guided by a Scientific Council in its broad lines of
research. The Council has members from DOA, agricultural education,
agricultural industry, and the Economic Planning Unit.
20.       Prior to MARDI, agricultural research and development was done by
DOA and MARDI has progressively taken over DOA's Research Stations in
various parts of Malaysia.  They will be establishing a Research Center on
the edge of the project area at Simpang Rengam.  They have taken over the
Pineapple Research Station at Pekan Nanas and will be taking over Parit
Botak Research Station, where coconut, cocoa and coffee research has been
undertaken by DOA. A new station would be established in the project area on
peat soils to determine the best crops and rotations for such soils (Annex 3).
MARDI has a Project Development Division, which brings the results of
research to the farm level by setting up trial areas on farms. When trials
are successful, DOA takes over further demonstration and extension work.
21.       MARDI is currently planning for a staff of 350 research officers
by 1975. At present there are 136 graduate research officers and, as it is
unlikely that they can reach their target, they will recruit several
experienced foreign scientists to bridge the gap. MARDI has applied for
a Bank loan to finance research facilities and specialist staff. Preparation
for appraisal is in progress.
RRIM
22.       The RRIM was estahlished in 1925 to concentrate research and
development of natural rubbe: in one body. They have 160 scientists and
research officers, making it the largest institute in the world dealing with
natural rubber. RRIM would provide training facilities for RISDA project
personnel as needed.



ANNEX 10
Page  6
RISDA
23.       RISDA was established in 1972 by a Federal Act, but it is not an
entirely new organization since it took over the responsibilities of the
Rubber Industry Replanting Board, which was started in 1952. The
functions of RISDA are:
(a) the administration of the rubber replanting cess (at present
4.5 Mi per lb and yielding M$ 130 million per annum);
(b)  the management and operation of replanting schemes; and
(c) implementation of agricultural innovations and new techniques
through extension work amongst the farmers.
There are seven Divisions in RISDA under a Director-General: Administration
and Finance; Replanting; Modernization and Development; Plantation Develop-
ment; Nurseries and Services; Economics and Planning; and Estate Replanting.
The project is mainly the concern of the Replanting and Modernization
Divisions.
24.       Under replanting schemes now in effect farmers may replant rubber
with almost any other approved crop. RISDA staff endeavor to persuade
farmers to replant with crops suitable to their soils.  Under the project,
RISDA would operate more positively to persuade farmers to replant rubber
with oil palm, where soil is suitable.
25.       RISDA's senior staff are graduates from the University of Malaysia.
Extension staff have been trained in the Agricultural Institutes and aire
able to receive additional training as necessary from RRIM and FELDA. There
are 11 senior staff in Johore State and 122 field inspectors or extension
workers. For more sustained extension work in the project area, RISDA
would need 15 senior officers (AO and AA) and 50 extension workers and
inspectors (JAA) to be in place between 1976 and 1978 (based on one extension
worker per 2,000 ac).
26.       RISDA's Plantation Division plants and.operates rubber and oil
palm estates for the benefit of marginal farmers, who own less than 5 ac.
The farmers are given shares in the estates in addition to replanting
-rants.
',DC
27.       MRDC would be responsible with RISDA for setting up central
rubber processing factories to improve quality of the smallbolder's rubber.
Small collection centers WOL.d be established for weighing and collecting
latex and transporting it to the central factory.  MDC would thus not
oaly ensure markets for small,older's rubber, but would, by its central
-acilities, ensure higher quality standards.



ANNEX 10
Page 7
FELDA
28.       FELDA is a large organization established in 1956 to develop rub-
ber and oil palm plantations for landless people. Its only concern with the
project is to provide initial facilities for processing oil palm fruit in
their oil mill at Kulai, until the production in the project area has
expanded enough to justify construction of oil palm mills within the project
area (expected in 1982). FELDA would also be responsible for marketing
palm oil produced by the project and would be available for advice on all
aspects of the industry.'
Ž2IB
29.       The MPIB - a joint Board between Malaysia and Singapore - was
established in 1957 by an ordinance. Its major functions are to fix
prices for fresh pineapples at which canneries must buy them, to regulate
and supervise proper processing of canned pineapple and to conduct agrono-
mic development amongst the small pineapple growers. Up to 1973 it conducted
pineapple research, but this function has been taken over by MARDI. The
main objective is to make the industry as economically viable and efficient
as possible. The board has four divisions: Inspectorate; Extension; Replant-
ing; and Administration.
30.      NTIB's Replanting Division operates the replanting schemes and
administers the replanting grant.  The Inspectorate Division has plans to
;4||3      improve the grading and pricing of fruit in the project area.  The Extension
Division presently has 11 workers and this would be increased during the
project to 20. As the better varieties of pineapple (both in shape and
quality) are developed, the Replanting Division would engage in a major
replanting campaign.
31.       PMC is a Government guaranteed Company which operates two
canneries in the project area. Canneries are also operated by the private
sector.
32.       PIMC is a joint marketing corporation dealing with both the
Government canneries and private sector.
33.       CPS is a sales organization dealing entirely with U.K. sales of
pineapple.
FAMA
34.       FAMA was established in 1965 and its main functions are:
(a) to coordinate activities of the various bodies concerned
with the marketing of agricultural products; and
(b) to promote ways and means of improving agricultural produce
marketing and to find new markets.



ANN 1 10
In the project area, FAMA would offer alternative marketin- facilities from
the private sector for coconut, set Up cora dryltg factlities, and assist
in the processing and marketing of cocoa, coffee,, atvsd vagptables and
tapioca as required.
SEDC
35.      SEDC, within the State of Jolar., establihes ccmpanies to help
the economically disadvantaged w'ith particular emphaats on agro-based
industry. They wuld establish tapioca platations. la cooperation with
smallholders and build the prmcesing faccIlities. n the project area_
Tapioca would be processed to chips and pellets, inltlalIJ, and later to
starch,     "parted through an SD  based. _aftWa  or comanies..



DID STAFF FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION 1974/79
State Director DID Johore
Headquarters Staff for                                                                                             3
_w mm me me              _                 _ ____Deputy State D & I Engineer
Design and Feasibility                      Chief Resident Engneer (CRE)           I             for
Western Johore ProLject                Other Works in Johore
Study for Second Stage                              I __t__r
Deputy CRE
(Kuala Lumpur)
Senior Residelt Engineer (SRE) I        SRE II            SRE III            Drawing Office
Administration
I                   &
Minor Works
NupI                 L                  LI
Frup T          GI                           Group II
IGroup III
(Kkuup)                     (Pontian)         (Benut)
(Pontian)
(D Po 



Details of Groups on Page 1
Group I                            Group II                                Group III
3 Units
1  Senior Design Engineer             1  Senior Resident Ehgineer              1  Sen:¶or D & I Ehgineer
1  Senior Planning Engineer           3  Resident Engineers                    1  D & I Engineer
4  Design Engineers                   1  Technical Assistant (TA)               1  TA Superscale
(Special Grade) (SG)
2  PlannIng Engineers                 2  TAs                                    1  TA  (SG)
2  Quantity Surveyors                 3  Technicians (SG)                       2  TAs
h  TAs (SG)                          15  Technicians                            6  Technicians
2  TAs                                9  Juni.or Technicians                    6  Junior Technicians
(Draftsmen)
2  TAs                                1  Stenographer                           1  Executive Officer
12  Technicians                            a Clerks                              1  Chief Clerk
10  Draftsmen                          2  Typists                                1  Financial  lerk
4  Tracers                             1  Office boy                            3  General Service Clerks
2  Office boys                       60   Survey laborers, drivers,            4  Contract Clerks
storemen , etc.                                                  X   6
1  Stenographer                 0
2 Typists
1  Telephone Operator
2 Office boys



0                          4~~~~~~~
DID STAFF REQUIiREMETS FOR OPERATION & MITNCEOF ENIGINEEiING WORKS
AFTER COMPLETPION OF PROJECT - PHASE 1
SDIE Batu Pahat                                                    SDIE -ontain
D & I      eer           D & IEineer               D         ineer          DrLwin Office             Worjshop
Benut                   Ayer Baloi              Pon  an Besar
Tampok                  Sg Sanglang             Pontian Kecil           1 Tech Assistant        1 Tech Assistant
Pinggan                Sg Rambah                  (Superscale)           (Mechanical)
I                        I                           I                     I
1 Tech Assistant         1 Tech Assistant          1 Tech Assistant         1 Technician            1 Storekeeper (Or 1)
(Sp Grade)               (Sp Grade)                (Sp Grade)              (Superscale)         1 Storekeeper
1 Tech Assistant         1 Tech Assistant          1 Tech Assistant         4 Technician
1 Tochnician             1 Technician              1 Technician             1 Junior Technician
(SuperscaJle)            (Superscale)              (Superscale)                (Sp Grade)
1 Technician             1 Technician              1 Technician             6 Junior Technicians
(Sp Grade)               (Sp Grade)                (Sp Grade)
8 Technicians            8 Technicians             8 Technicians
2 Junior TechnicianS    2 ,JLuni.or Teehric-ians    2 Jumnior Technici.ans
(Sp Grade)               (Sp Grade)                (Sp Grade)
12 Qunior TechAicians   12 Junior Tecbricir.iis   12 J1Jnior Techr-icians






ANNEX 11
Page 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Staff and Training
1.        Agricultural training facilities are well advanced in Malaysia.
Training is basically at three levels, with a variety of specialized
training.
2.        The University of Agriculture at Sendang, has a four-year Degree
course which has an output of about 120 graduates per annum. Of these
graduates, about 30% stay in teaching, 30% go on to higher education and
40% go into the agricultural professional fields. The University also has
a three-year Diploma course with an annual output of 350. AO's must have
degrees and AA's require diplomas.
3.        There are six Agricultural Institutes, which have a three-year
course based on more practical farmer needs and most of the output from
these Institutes become JAM s. Three of these Institutes (to be progress-
ively operational between 1973 and 1975) are being financed by the Bank
(Loan MA 599 - US$8.8 million).  All will be in operation in 1975.  Table 1
attached shows the scheduling and output from these Institutes, which would
total 590 by 1977.
4.        In additional to these training facilities, there are specialized
training courses available through the RRIM and FELDA. These are also
training facilities being planned by FOA and RISDA on specialized extension
needs.



ANE 11
5.        Additional agricultural staff, build,-up. in-tbhe?projpct fOV tw, Maior
agencies involv*d is estimated to be as faUmsa
Orgarization.
and Staff Grade      1974     1975     19T7      1977      1978
FOA
AA                     2        4        6                  10.
JAA                    8       20       30.       40.       50
DOA
AO                     2        4        6         6:       6.
AA                     1        4        8        12        12:
JAA                    5       10;.     z  -      30.       LeO.
RISDA
AO                              -        1         t1        3
AA                    -<                           Z 2,      4
JAA                   -        10ti                         4
MPIB
A.A                    1        1        2         4.        4.
JAA (Extension)        2        4.-      8        1 M       15.
JAA (Replant)          2.       4,       &        1 Q       12:
TOTALS
AO                    2.        4        7         7 
AA                    4         9    t8a          26        3q,
JAA                   17       4&       a&6     12O.       157
6.        In view of the outputs, from all traiata  f l±     and, 13
?articular, the large output of JAA's by I9Z7I. the prwt±tian of sui*ably.
trained agricultural scaff for the proJect waudkL prmmou rni itfdlolty,
7.        Agricultural training would be provided to f=a7mars ia   the project
at all ADC's.  These training courses would be conducted by the DOh and
would normally take from one week to threz weeks.  SubjaeXm matters would
cover such topics as:
(a) Choice of fertilizer and application techniques;,
(b) pest, disease and weed. control;



ANNEX I 1
Page  3
(c) home economics (for women);
(d) new techniques in crop planting; and
(e) new varieties of seedlings.
In addition to these courses DOA would organize conducted tours for farmers
to places of agricultural interest in the State such as the FELDA oil palm
plantation at Kulai.
8.        Training of farm youths between 16 and 20 years is arranged by
DOA, usually lasting six months, and selected students may have extended
training for a full year to qualify them as field assistants in DOA or RISDA.






-D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   Crz  O( r                                                v
Cr     r                                  CC (-  -  C                                                                                0                                                           W iiw
r.                                                                                                                                i   Z                .                 tCr-i-,|0|.-   |-
ft       'r_     _   r(                                            T                                                                                                        0  jC3    |D
CO .           D .C-C  L f CD     0D1    SVC CCaco                        vLx S S=s K                                             w                                      C   i         74      |       |       rI
o                                                  |i  _  rft                      I                                                       I-                                   1 OCt(  I-tCO  It(              |D0 CC|MOC Cr  0 CC
n                                                _  vr  C  c    tf         *-trfff oCC cC                              CC                CCo cr ol                    CC,c  O<8                  ,N l~°° -o_,                  w  rif  D-     |
ft~  |-CC                                                           i-            C         CC    3f         C       ftc       C          ft       tr r    0      >
iCr~~ ~ ~                            |  ct-C C   8 -C v          -  .                                        wX rrO- r C o 0o-rtf.  rff  ifi  rCf      _n ifi            .      -rD
C~~         ~     ~ |-r  CcC f°tCr                                     C o         wtC-           ftC         fC               r _        -  Co       o         w        C r         oC
C~~ C.O-C                                             cC          c  w--       D     i.-      t    C      w * C                 C        -    Z                          - -
ft~ ~       ~ |t  - Cirtfr                            rf               CC            C _          CC          C ft      C-     ft        ft                                                 I
-C5 Orft     _-                              _ t               ft                                                   n ft  ft                                                     |                   | t f  t
1C  ftt,f                             C                         f                                            0ft  
ft                  CC     -C-C                         Cft                                                              t 
p  CC-i ft  i-  .                       C                          ft        ft                                               C                                        .






MALAYS IA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Government Revenues and Expenditures
(M$ '000)
-----------~------------------------------------------------------- Incremental --------------------_----________________________________________________-
1974          1975         1976         1977         1978         1979        1980        1981        1982        1983         1984-      1989-      1994-      1999-
1988      1993        1998       2003
Revenues:
Export duties and cesses                   300           500          650          955        1,240         1,730       2,210       2,705       2,640       2,555      11,920    13,235    13,925    14,100
Reduced pineapple subsidies I,              -            100          200          700        1,500        2,200       2,800       3,300        3,700       3,900      18,700    17,100    17,100    18,000
Land taxes and title 2/
conversion fees   -                      _             _                          5           15           30          65          115         125         135         810        855        780        720
Sales taxes, income taxes
import duties                         1,165         3,900        4,400        4,640        2,630        1,515       1,000       1,200       1,455       1,650        8,205      8,880      9,340      9,725
TOTAL                       1,465         4,500        5,250        6,300        5,385        5,475       6,075        7,320      7,920        8,240      39,635    40,070    41,145    42,545
Expenditures: 3/                        11,650        38,980       43,990       46,400       26,295       15,145       1,000       1,000        1,000       1,000       5,000      5,000      5,000      5,000
Annual surplus (deficit):              (10,185)      (34,480)    (38,740)    (40,100)    (20,910)          (9,670)      5,075       6,320       6,920       7,240      34,635    35,070    36,145    37,545
1/ See para 5.07 and 7.03 of text.
2/ Payment of the conversion fee assumed to be made five years after conversion of crop.
3/ Derived from Annex 9, Table 1.  Excluded are expenditures for processing plants and operation and maintenance by DID -- both are covered by separate charges.  Included are the costs
of additional agricultural extension services throughout the life of the project and a 15% physical contingency during the development period.






ANNEX 13
Page  1
MALAYS IA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Marketing and Prices
1.        The major crops produced in the project area (rubber, palm oil,
pineapples, and tapioca) would be mainly for export. Copra, coffee, bananas,
and miscellaneous fruits and vegetables would be marketed in Malaysia and
Singapore. In the case of cocoa, Malaysia is expected to change from a net
importer to a net exporter in the next few years.
2.        Marketing problems and projected prices are discussed below for
each crop. "Bank Projections" refer to projections made by the Economic
Analysis and Projections Department. Other sources of information include
the Ministry of Agriculture's 1971 Statistical Digest and various reports
by the Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA). All prices are in
1974 constant values. Projected prices are summarized in Table 1.
Rubber
3.        Malaysia's rubber production and exports have risen steadily over
the last decade despite a slight decline in acreage. However, the export
value has declined due to low prices in 1970 and 1971. 1973 and 1974 prices
on the other hand have been exceptionally high. Rubber production from the
project area (with the project) would reach no more than 20,000 tons and
would gradually decline. Therefore, the project would have no significant
effect on Malaysia's total production or on prices.
4.        The current Bank forecast for the price of rubber in 1980 is
US$0.33/lb for RSS I (Ribbed smoked sheet, first grade), cif New York.
The farmgate price in the project area was derived as follows:



ANNEX 13
Page  2
Rubber /a
-Without , roject    With ProJect
RSS1, cif New York - (US$/lb)                       0.54               0.33
- (M$ /lb)                      0.76               0.76
Freight                                             0.07               0.07
RSS1, fob Singapore                                 0.69               0.69
Equivalent price /b ((M$ /lb)                 0.62               0.62
Export duty and cess /c            ( -  )     0.12    ( -  )    0.12
Marketing margin (M$ fib) /d       (0.11)     0.11    (0.08)    0.08
Farm-gate price (M$ flb)                 (0.51)     0,39    (0.54)    0.42
/a   All prices are in 1974 cons.tant values.  Figures in parentheses refer
to prices net of taxes, and -duties -far -*e in the economic analysis.
/b   USS (Unsmoked sheet) is the gra4e. of rubber normally produced in the
project area and it is expecgtddhat this -r$l1  ctinue to:be the case.
Its price is equivalent -toSS3 .r. W$  4               -raout=.0% of RSS1.
Ic                                                 :1 /Jlb
Export duty                    4-1 /8
Expor t surcharge              2
Research cqss                  1
Replanting cess                4-1/2
Total                    11E5/8
Say                      12
14   Observed marketing margins for USS in Jnohore,some years ago- averaged
M$ 0.11/lb.  This figure is used to calculate. armgate price without
the project.  With the project, a reuaction -to M$ 0.081is postulated,
because of the growth of group processing centers and a vastly
improved road network, which would lower transport costs.  Although
centralized crumb rubber production. w.ld.rJeult in,.some cost
reductions, it has not been-included In the preoent calculation.
Copra
5.        Areas of coconut palms and calculated copra production statistics
for Peninsular Malaysia are shown below:
1967    968   1969   1970   1971
Area - ('000 ac)                           504    517    523    527    519
Estimated copra production ('000 ton)    166    170    160    160    150
Net exports (or imports)
- copra (M$ million)                 0.4   (0.9)  (0.9)  (0.8)  (1.1)
- coconut oil (M$ million)            22      37     19     37      32



'NNEX 13
0                                                                        Page  3
6.        The 1970 Bank Sector Survey reported that internal consumption
accounted for half Malaysia's production of coconut oil and that consump-
tion was increasing at 5.5% per annum. At this rate, and with copra
production fairly static, there would be no export surplus by 1985. Copra
production from the project area is at present 10,500 tons per annum and,
with the project, would rise to 17,400 tons in 1983 and 27,800 tons in
2003. This rate of increase should not seriously affect the overall market
situation for copra in Malaysia.
7.        Forecasting the future price of copra or coconut oil is difficult
because of the high degree of substitutability between the various vegetable
oils and animal fats. Total estimated world consumption of fats and oils
expanded steadily at a rate of 2.9% in the 1960's but both the geographic
and product composition of demand changed during that period. It is
expected that this rate of increase will continue but that coconut oil
will have difficulty in maintaining its share of the market, due to the
effects of devaluation of the United States dollar and to consumer prefer-
ences. Hence, a reduction in price from recent levels may be assumed.
8.        Prices in 1972 fell sharply from their 1971 levels but increased
substantially in 1973 to levels around M$ 750/ton copra, fob Singapore.
Malaysian research workers have calculated an average price of M$ 500/ton,
based on a 20-year regression analysis, and predict a decline to M$ 470/ton
by the early 1980's.  FAMA forecasts a price in the range M$ 390-420/ton
fob Singapore for the "future". By contrast, a recent Bank forecast is
M$ 480/ton. After weighing these predictions, a farm-gate price of M$ 462
(US$198)/ton copra, dried to 10% moisture and bagged, was used in the
economic and-farm income analyses.
Pineapple
9.        This crop is the only one in the project area likely to present
difficult marketing problems. Production statistics for Peninsular
Malaysia in recent years are shown below:
1967   1968   1969   1970   1971
Area ('000 ac)                        57     56      52     64     62
Exports - canned pineapples
('000 tons)                62     66      63     60     57
- value (M$ million)         43      48     44     42      40
Export price
- canned pineapples
(M,$ /ton)                700    725    701    702    705
Of the 40,000 ac in Peninsular Malaysia cultivated solely for canning,
35,000 ac are found within the project area.
.



ANNEX 13
Page  4
10.       The pineapple industry was reorganized in 1960 after a disastrous
price war. The price to the grower was set by the Government at M$ 0.029/lb
(M$ 65/ton) at factory and has remained at that level. The MPIB (Annex 11)
was set up and charged with research and extension into cultivation improve-
ments, pineapple marketing through a subsidiary, the Pineapple Industry
Marketing Corporation, and the canning of smallholder crops through PMC.
Despite these improvements, little replanting has taken place, leading to a
gradual decline in fruit quality, and currency realignments have caused the
export price (expressed in Malaysian Dollars) to decline. As a result, both
the Government and private canners, which formerly operated at a profit, have
recently incurred heavy losses. As a relief measure, the Government has
suspended the export cess, which has financed MPIB's replanting activities,
and has increased the replanting grant from M$ 400 to M$ 650/ac. The price
to the grower, however, has not been changed.
11.       In the longer term, Malaysia will have to face the additional
difficulty of an EEC tariff in its present major market, the United
Kingdom. In order to maintain its share of the United States and United
Kingdom markets, Malaysia will have to reduce significantly production
costs and produce cuts and sizes which are closer to the market demands.
12.       With the above considerations in mind, future prices for the
economic analysis have been projected as follows:
Pineapple - Fresh Fruit
(M$/ton at factory)
1973     1983      1993     2003
Without project - old variety              55        50
- new varieties           60        55       50        50
With project    - old variety              55
- new varieties           60        60       62        64
Actual 1973 prices are above the levels shown above but, as the canneries
are operating at a loss, do not represent free market values. There is
at present no price differential between old and new varieties although the
recovery ratio of the new varieties is significantly better and thus
their value to the cannery should be greater. The above prices for 1973
are intended to represent shadow prices.
,3.       Without the project, yield improvements would not balance the
increasing marketing diff.iculties (para 10) and prices would have to
decline as production rises. With the project, because of higher yields,
larger fruit, lower transport costs and a higher cannery recovery ratio,
production costs per unit of output would be greatly reduced, product
quality would improve and therefore prices for fresh fruit are forecast
zo decline for five years then gradually increase.



ANNEX 13
Page 5
14.       In financial terms, actual prices received will depend on Govern-
ment policy, which may be assumed to aim at shielding the smallholder from
the full impact of the above marketing difficulties, possibly through
subsidies. Without the project, the average smallholding would probably
not be viable at the above shadow prices. However, with the project, the
need for subsidies would disappear within ten years. Therefore, the follow-
ing prices were used in calculating farm income:
PineapPle - Fresh Fruit
(M$/ton at factory)
1973     1983      1993      2003
Without project - old variety                65        65         .
- new varieties            65        65        60        60
With project    - old variety                65
- new varieties            65        60        62        64
Oil Palm
15.       Malaysia is now the world's largest producer of oil palm products
and the crop is expected within the next decade to replace rubber as the
chief earner of foreign exchange. Production statistics for recent years
are shown below:
Oil Palm
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971
Area ('000 ac)                              401     496      597      675      769
Production - palm oil ('000 ton)            213     261      321      396      542
- palm kernel ('000 ton)         48      59       73       86      117
Export volume
- palm oil ('000 ton)          177      264      326      365      523
- palm kernel ('000 ton)         23      32       34       22       16
Export value
- palm oil (M$ million)         111     117      143      245      353
- palm kernel (M$ million)        9      14       12        9        6
Price       - palm oil (M$/ton)             627     443      439      671      675
- palm kernel (1$/ton)         378      448      350      405      363
Estimated ?roduction from the Project Area
(With project)
1973    1983    1993    2003
Palm Oil ('000 ton)                0      12.7    67.1    83.0
Palm Kernel ('000 ton)             0       2.4    13.3    16.4



ANNEX 13
page6
16.       With Malaysian production continuing to expand rapidly -- oil
production in 1990 is forecast to be 3.7 million tons -- production from
the project area would remain a very small proportion of the total and
would thus not influence marketing conditions or prices.
17.       Export prospects for palm oil are expected to remain favorable
through the 1980's. However, competition from other vegetable oils may
lead to price reductions. 1974 prices have been exceptionally high - over
M$ 700/ton. The Bank's projected price for 1980, in 1974 constant values,
is US$278/ton or M$ 648/ton. After deducting freight and insurance, the
fob Singapore price would be M$ 551/ton. This price was used in economic
analysis. For financial analysis, a duty of 9.8% was deduct-ed, giving
a price of M$ 497/ton. As Malaysia is expected to be using all palm
kernel production for internal use by 1980, palm kernel has been evaluated
at the domestic ex-mill price of M$ 290/ton.
Cocoa
18.       Cocoa became established in Peninsular Malaysia in the 1950's,
originally in Trengganu State. In recent years there has been a rapid
expansion of acreage, mainly as an intercrop under coconuts. With
goverrnent encouragement, this rapid expansion is expected to continue,
as shown below:
Cocoa (Peninsular Malaysia)
Area - sole crop equivalent ('000 ac)
Year                  Estates         Smallholders        Total
1967                    ...               ...                 2
1968                    ...               ...                 3
1969                    ...               ...                 5
1970                    ...               ...                 8
1971                    ...               ...                19
1975 (est)              35                 20                55
1980 (est)               55                55               110
19.       In thirty years' time, the area of cocoa in Peninsular Malaysia
could exceed 250,000 ac sole crop equivalent. In Sabah, 13,500 ac of cocoa
was established by the end of 1972 and this is likely to increase to
30,000 ac by 1975. As soils in Sabah are among the best in the world for
cocoa, the potential for cocoa in that state is exceptionally good. The
highest yielding cocoa estate in the world is located in Tawau District
in Sabah. It is clear that Malaysia very soon is going to become a major
cocoa producer.



ANNEX 13
Page 7
of        20.       The sole crop equivalent area of cocoa in the project area is
expected to rise from 1,100 ac in 1973 to 7,000 ac in 1983 and 15,000 ac
in 2003, or about 6% of the total area in Peninsular Malaysia. Therefore
the project would have no significant influence on marketing conditions
or prices.
21.       Figures on Malaysia's trade in cocoa and cocoa products are
uninformative due to the fact that a major chocolate factory, using
Malaysian cocoa and supplying much of the Malaysian market, is located
in Singapore. A second factory is located at Butterworth, Province
Wellesley. However, it is clear that, with rising domestic productiorn of
cocoa, dependence on imported supplies will cease and Malaysia will become
a net exporter of cocoa beans, and possibly cocoa products, within the next
few years.
22.       The Bank's projected price for 1980 is US$0.374/lb, spot New York.
The farm-gate price is calculated below:
Cocoa Beans, cif New York (US$/lb)                0.470
Freight, insurance                              0.035
fob Singapore (US$/lb)                          0.435
(M$/lb)                          1.014
Port handling  M$/lb          0.005
Transport      M$/lb          0.037
Processing     M$/lb          0.050
Total                                        0.092
Farm-gate price (M$/lb)
(dry beans equivalent)                        0.922
This price was used in both the economic and farm income analyses.
Coffee
23.       Annual production of coffee beans in Peninsular Malaysia averaged
4,400 tons in 1968-70. Most of the coffee is grown under coconut or other
shade trees of economic value and the sole crop equivalent in Peninsular
Malaysia is about 13,000 ac. Most of the coffee produced is sold to local
millers and is consumed in Malaysia. Total consumption of regular coffee
is about 6,400 tons.
24.       Malaysia is a net importer of coffee beans and products, as
shown below:
.



ANNEX 1 3
Page  8
1967      1968       1969      1970       1971
Coffee beans - not roas g
Exports - (tons)              1,205      1,499       735        894       968
- (M$ thousand)       2,082     2,536      1,368     1,448      1,730
Imports - (tons)              3,661      4,164     3,234      2,312     3,148
- (M$ thousand)       5,081     6,616      4,445     3,842      5,367
Roasted Beans and Coffee Products
Net Imports (M$ thousand)    2,605       3,206     2,104      3,680     3,679
25.       Domestic production of coffee is confined to the Liberica variety,
which is preferred by most Malaysians but has a very limited export poten-
tial. Current imports are mainly of the Robusta or Arabica types or
"instant" coffee. The increase in coffee production in the proj,ect area,
with the project, would be 1,000 tons by 1983 and 1,800 tons by 2003. While
these amounts are fairly large compared with current national production,
it is believed that they can be absorbed in the Malaysian and Singapore
market with possibly minor exports to Indonesia.
26.       Domestic prices are expected to be fairly stable over the next
decade and hence the present farm-gate price of M$ 0.10/lb wet beans
(equivalent to M$ 0.99/lb for dry, processed beans) is used both for the
economic and farm income analyses.
Bananas
27.       Bananas would be a relatively minor crop in the project area,
with production expected to reach 7,500 tons in 1983. This production
wouldl be sold locally and in Singapore and the present farm-gate price of
M$ 140/ton (on the bunch) has been used for the economic and farm income
analyses.
Tapioca
28.       Tapioca in Peninsular Malaysia is cultivated mainly in the states
of Perak, Johore, and Pahang. Total acreage and exports are shown below,
together with figures from Thailand, which has become a major producer of
this crop, for comparison.



ANNEX 13
Page 9
Tapioca and Starch
1967    1968    1969    1970    1971
Area ('000 ac)                       44.8    42.1    43.3    43.6,  36.7
Production ('000 ton)                  ..      ..       ..     204     t59
Export Volume
-  Tapioca ('000 ton)          16.2    18.2    10.4
-  Starch ('000 ton)             ..    18.2    20.1    29.6
Export Value
-  Tapioca (M$ million)         4.6      4.5     4.2
-  Starch (M$ million)            ..     4.5     4.1      5.6
Thailand
Export Volume ('000 ton)              800     860     940   1,320
29.       Fresh tapioca is either processed into chips for animal feed, into
flakes or pearls for export (mainly to Europe for animal feed), or into
starch for the domestic and export markets. The potential for increased
exports lies more in the field of tapioca pellets and starch, rather than
the traditional form of chips, as experience from Thailand indicates.
30.       Production of tapioca from the project area would reach 150,000 tons
tubers in 1983 and 560,000 tons in 2003.  As most of the increased produc-
tion will have to be exported, a major expansion of effort in exporting
would be required. However, experience in Thailand suggests that, if
processing and marketing is well organized, rapid increases in exports
can be achieved.
31.       In the absence of a Bank projection for the world market price of
tapioca and its products, the present farm-gate price of M$ 42/ton for
fresh tubers has been used in the economic and farm budget analyses.
Groundnuts
32.       Despite recent increases, domestic production of groundnuts in Malaysia
is insufficient to meet demand, mainly because of a lack of suitable soils.
Production statistics are given below:



ANNEX 13
Page 10
Groundnut
1967      1968       1969      1970       1971
Area (ac)                         ..     5,400    .5,900      6,200      6,400
Production /a (ton)               ..         ..        ..     4,400      6,400
Imports /b (ton)             13,900    10,800       6,900     5,300      4,000
Exports /c (ton)                 170       140        400       670        870
/a   Fresh, unshelled.
lb   Mostly fresh, shelled.
/c   Roasted.
33.       The decline in imports reflects the.growing domestic production.
There also appears to has been a decline in consumption though the reasons
for this are not clear. Exports are almost entirely of roasted nuts to
Hongkong and Singapore, for which a price of:.about M$ 1700/ton is obtained.
Production from the project area is estimated to.reach 11,600 6 tons of fresh,
unshelled nuts by 1983 and 51,000 tons by 2003. Thus, by 1983, the domestic
market will have been fully supplied and a small surplus woul.dbe available
for export.  While it is likely that:the traditional markets would be able
to absorb these surpluses up to at least 1985,tprospeczs;beyond that are
more uncertain and it is likely that pr-oduction Increases would have to:be
processed for oil rather than roasted.
34.       In the absence of a Bank.price projection far roaeted-groundnuts,
farm-gate prices for the early 1980's have been set ye*al _to,-Vresent
average values, that is, M$ 462/ton for fresh,.unshelled nwts.
Fruits and Vegetables
35.       Vegetable acreage in Malaysia in recent years has been about
19,000 ac. Per capita demand in Malaysia was 80 lb per annum.in 1966 and
is increasing at about 1% annually.  The supply of all types:of vegetables,
which was 360,000 tons in 1970, would need to increase to 525,000 tons by
1980. A similar situation exists in Singapore, where the local-supply is
decreasing due to urbanization. Output from the 5,000 ac estimated to be
planted with vegetables in the project area by 1983 would be of the order of
60,000 tons, much less than the aggregate increase in-demand. Therefore,
no marketing constraints are expected, even allowing for production
increases elsewhere in Malaysia.  Due to its proximity .to Singapore, the
project area would be well placed to supply that growing market. However,
there would be a need for dissemination of market information to the
farmers to ensure steady supplies without gluts. There are also prospects
for canning vegetables such as tomatoes, gherkins, cucumbers, and for
processing chillies and ginger, both for the domestic and export trade,



ANNEX 13
Page  11
36.       Income from vegetables has been estimated by averaging a number
of the more important varieties, using average prices for the last few
years.
37.       The project would also increase yields from existing stands of
fruit trees, arecanuts, etc. This has been evaluated in terms of an
income increase of M$ 55/ac after 10 years, M$ 110/ac after 20 years, and
M$ 165/ac after 30 years.






ANNEX 13
Table 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary of Prices
With (W)
or                                            1983
Without (W)                                 Projected  Price
Crop            Project      Basis /a  Source    Unit    Economic Financial
Rubber                  W           FG        /b      M$/lb      0.51      0.39
W                                       0.54      0.42
Copra                   -           FG        /c     M$/ton       462       462
Cocoa, dried beans      -           FG        /b     M$/lb       0.92      0.92
Coffee, dried beans     -           FG      /d  /e   M$/lb       0.99      0.99
Bananas, fresh          -           FG        /d      M$/ton      140        140
Pineapple
*         - old variety           W          PY         /f     M$/ton        50        65
- new variety          W                                          55         65
W                                         60         60
Palm Oil                 -          PB        /b      M$/ton      551        497
Palm kernel              -          XF                M$/ton      290        290
Tapioca, tubers          -          FG        /d      M$/ton       42         42
Groundnuts
- fresh, unshelled     -           FG       /d       M$/ton      462        462
/a   FG - farmgate; FY - at factory; FB - fob Singapore; XF - ex-factory.
/b   Bank projections.
/c   Based on Federal Agricultural Marketing Authority (FAMA) reports and
published sources.
/d   Present price used.
/e   Coffee is Liberica variety for which no international market exists.
If   See paras 9-14.
jg By 1983, all palm kernel will be processed in Malaysia. Therefore,
a             projected domestic prices used.






ANNEX 14
Page  1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Crop Budgets and Farm Income
Crop Budgets
1.        Crop budgets for the existing and proposed future crops in
the project area are shown in Tables 1 to 4, in a rather condensed form.
Physical inputs, such as fertilizer, planting material, tools and equipment,
are shown at their market prices. Other inputs, which consist largely of
labor, are evaluated using the market wage rate of M$ 4/man-day for finan-
cial analysis and a shadow rate of M$ 3/man-day for economic analysis.
Taxes and drainage rates are shown as prodtction costs. Labor require-
ments are shown for each crop (on a year-by-year basis for the tree crops).
Farm Income
2.        Smallholders in the project may be categorized by their principal
crop, viz, rubber, coconut or pineapple. With the project, annual crops on
peat areas would be important. Three farm sizes were used for each crop.
For the existing crops, these comprised the average size and the upper and
lower twenty percentile sizes, as given in the Ministry of Agriculture small-
holder surveys 1/. For annual crops, three arbitrary sizes, representa-
tive of probable future conditions, were chosen.
3.        The cropping pattern for each model, under present conditions,
was based on the smallholder surveys. Normally this consisted of a main
crop, a subsidiary crop and "other" crops, for which the mixed horticulture
data was used. For the rubber farm model, it was assumed that, without
the project, no changes to oil palm would take place, while with the
project all rubber would be replanted with oil palm before 1983. This
emphasizes the range of farm incomes rather than average conditions.
Similarly for coconut, full replanting before 1983 was also assumed.
Two intercrops, cocoa and banana, were used to demonstrate the variability
of farm income. For all tree crops, the percentage of mature trees in
any year was based on the average for the project area for that year
(Annex 3).  For the subsidiary crops, uo replanting or intercropping was
assumed.
1/   References 1, 2 and 3.



ANNEX 14
Page  2
4.        Farm income was evaluated by calculating the net value of produc-
tion, using projected 1983 prices in financial terms (Annex 15), without
costing labor, and then adding the cash cost of hired labor (at 1$ 4/man-day).
For immature tree crops, income from replanting grants and a nominal amount
from cash crops was estimated and the establishment costs of the tree crop
deducted. Hired labor was estimated as the difference between total labor
requirements and the average family labor contribution of 450 man-days/year
(i.e. 1.8 workers per family and 250 working days per year). Off-farm
income, which consists of wages earned in other farms or non-farm work,
as well as gifts and transfers from relatives in the city, was also esti-
mated, using the smallholder surveys as a basis. This is particularly
important for the smaller farms where off-farm income may exceed on-farm
income.
Results
5.        For the average-sized rubber farm (Table 5) present income is
about M$ 2,200/year. With the project, this would increase to N$ 5,100 by
1983 and M$ 7,200 by 2003 due to the change to oil palm. The 1983 incomes
of 60% of the smallholders would lie between M$ 2,800 and M$ 6,400.  For
coconut (Table 6) the present average income is about X$ 2,000 and this
should rise to between M$ 4,200 and X$ 5,000 by 1983 and between K$ 6,100
and M$ 9,300 by 2003, depending on which intercrop is grown. The 1-983
incomes of 60% of the smallholders would lie between 1$ 1,800 and M$ 2,000.
For pineapple smallholders (Table 7),'the present average f*tm income is
about M$ 2,000/year, and this would rise to M$ 3,900 by 2003. The 1983
income of 60% of smallholders vould lie between M$ 2,700 and'M$ 2,900.
However, these incomes are all evaluated at projected crop prices which
are regulated by Government and are expected to be above ecacomic values,
especially in the early years of the project. The lack of variation with
farm size is a reflection of the labor intensive nature of this crop and
the need to hire labor on all but the smallest farms, as well as the low
profit margin from this crop under projected prices. Incomes from cash
crops (Table 8) would vary from M$ 2,300 in 1983 to M$ 2,800 in 2003 for
2.5 acre holding and from M$ 6,200 in 1983 to M$ 8,000 in 2003, for a
10-acre holding.
6.        In almost all the above cases, 1983 incomes of at least 80Z of
the smallholders would be above the level of M$ 2,400, estimated by the
Ministry of Agriculture as being equivalent to the 1973 wages of urban
factory workers and used as a target figure for agricultural development
projects. However, since not all changes in the cropping pattern would
take place before 1983, these results do not represent average conditions
(as noted in para 3). For this reason, Table 9 has been prepared which
shows that average farm income would increase from M$ 2,100 at present to
M$ 3,700 ia 1963 and to M$ 4,800 in 2003. Average family income would be
somewhat lower, due to the influence of tenants and landless laborers.
in this calculation, labor is not costed, as all hired labor is dran from
surrounding farms.



ANNEX 14
Page 3
References
1.  S. Selvadurai, "Socio-Economic Survey of Rubber Small-
holdings in West Johore". Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries, Kuala Lumpur, December 1972.
2.   S. Selvadurai, "A Preliminary Report on the Survey of
Coconat Smallholdings in West M4alaysia", Ministry of
Agriculture and Cooperatives, Kuala Lumpur, March 1968.
3.   S. Selvadurai and S. Jegatheesan, "An Economic Survey
of Pineapple Smallholdings iu Pontian, Johore",
Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives, Kuala Lumpur,
August 1968.
List of Tables
Table 1   - Production Costs:  Rubber, Coconut, Cocoa and Coffee
Table 2   -  Production Costs:  Pineapple
Table 3   -  Production Costs:  Oil Palm
Table 4   -  Production Costs:  Banana, Tapioca and Groundnut
Table 5   -  Farm Income:  Rubber/Oil Palm Smallholder
Table 6   -  Farm Income:  Coconut Smallholder
Table 7   -  Farm Income:  Pineapple Smallholder
Table 8   -  Farm Income:  Annual Crop Smallholder
Table 9   -  Total Farm Income for Project Area






6iALAYSIA
WESTERN_JORORE AGRICULTURAL DUVELOPME]NT PROJECT
Prod-cion. Costs: Rubbe.t  C---ut  Coco  aud CUffee
(MS/-)
Yeer from  plsetto :                       I                 2                3                 4                 6                 a                tO                 15               20                25                30               50        Isusseur      nature
R.bber
C..,    iR2                                     ()         2      (3         2     ()          2     C)          2      -)        6       -)        6       -)        6      C)         6       -)        6      -)         6      (-
- 8   ~~~~~~~~~~l 111 (E)                   51    (51)       RE    (61)        69    (069)       65   (R65)       42    (42)        42    ( 42)       42    (42)       3SE    (3Z         22   C 22)         2      (2)
- C                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~181   (140)  130    (97)  86    (64)       7     (57)       42    (30)        82     (61)      165   (140)       194   (147)       198   (151)       202   (155)       199   (US2)
ToGaE                        294    (251)        183  (148)       149  ( 125)       147   (126)       109    (93)      130   (LOS        233  (182)        242  (10B9)       736  (i18Z)       230  (177)        287  ( 154)                       220           169
With ProlatE
Cost- A                                 12    (12)        12      ((        12     (-(                12 3)    1        -        16      C-        16      (-        16      C-        16      C-        16     C)         16     (-
-0                              132   ( 137)       59    ( 59)       67   (467)       75   (275)        71   (21)         58    ( 58)       58    (58)        66   CR66)        60    ( 6C)      47    (47)        17    (17)
-C                             211  (191)        144   (107)       100    (25)        09    CR7)        56    (41)      197   (149)       197   (49)        205   (I54)        20   (1521       198   (48)       176   (138)
Total                          360  C 300)       21)  ( 166)      1)9  (171)        026I(142)         039   (112)      271  ( 207)       271  (2017)       287   ( 220)      290  ( 212)      261   (195)       209   (155)                       203            264
Cabo-  r-qult-mt -Wothoo-                     39                28                19                16                 8               18                41                42                41                41                41                             18          48
(moe-day/al)            Withc                 45                32                72               19                12                43                43                4)                45               44                41                             24           44
Cocoact
Withoul Pote st
Cost-A                                   2      ()         2      ()         2     )(          2     ()          2     ()         7      ()         7       -)        7      (3         7      7-                 -         7      -)         7     (-
-B                              152   ( 155)       38    (38)       30    (51)        59    (59)        3)    (32)       27    (27)        29    (29)        29    (29)        29    ( 29)       29    ( 292'      29    (29)        29    (29)
- C                  ~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~212   (162)  _54    (41)  48    (37)  4  3)        3      (25)       38    (29)        5      3)         3      (41)       5     (40)        52    (4)         32    (0)         3     (6
Total                         36)   (317)        94    (79)       100    (04)       102    (90)        69    (57)       72    (563        87    (67)        98    (70)        09    (69)        00    (69)        88    (69)        78    ( 55)    134s           92
With P-o(-o,
Cost -A                                 12       -)       12      C-)       22       -       12       -)       12      C)        17      C)        17      -)        17      ()        17      -)       17      (2        17       -)       17      (-
-B                              152   (155)        38    (38)       50    (50(        59    (5))        42    (42)       32    (37)        39    (39)        39    (39)        39    ( 39)       39   (39)         39   )39)        39      (39)
- C                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~226   (172)  00    (50)  02    (7)        52     (40)       44     (31)       47    (35)        59    (44)        61   6(4          59    (45)       29    (45)        59    ('.5)       41    (31)
Total                          (93   (327)      110    (39)       1)4    (87)       123    (99)       90    (73)       101    (72)       115    (03)       117    (95)       115    (84)       113    (84)       115    (94)        92    (70)    156           107
Labor  t-qutt- -t    WIthout                  45                12                10                 6                 7                0                11                12                11                It                01                 7           14           11
(man-days/ac)   - 8(14i                 48                1s               13                 0                 9                10               12                13                12                12                12                 8           07           1)
-B                              124   (124)       56    35b)        61    (61)        75    (75)       03    (83)        75    (75)        77    (77)        77    (77)        27    (77)        77    (77)
- C                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~140   (100)  7!9    (62)  70    (40)    _79    (42)         74    (02)       02     (06)       86    (68)        81    (67)         77    (63)       27    (63)
Total                         204   (232)       035   (110)       137   (121)       154   (132)      15)   (145)       157   (141)       163  (143)        150   (144)       154   (140)       144   (140)                                          200         151
-                              1 32   (137)        60    (0          77    7)         93     M o       41 1(101)         93    (93)        95    (95)        95    (95)        95    (95)        95    ( 95)
- C                   ~~~~~~~~~~        ~~~244   (112)  __4_   (68)  07   _70(  9  (793      002     (00)      C19    (96)       125    (99)       117    (07)       011    (9))       111    (91)
Total                         376  (244)        154   ((34)       164  )(147(      (92   ( 172 )     708  (18))        212   (109)       220   3194)       212   (192)       204   (186)       206  (186)                                          210          200
1oflox,cqo4ceoc,,1-0ich.ct              30                17                17               17                14                1s                10                17                17               17                                               24           17
mOn-day/ac)     - 4164.i               30                17                (8                19               21                25                23                24                23                23                                              24           2)
Cotffee
- 0                      ~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~49    3494  (4    C14)  (0    (10)  24    C24(     28    )28(        24    )24(        24    (24)        24    (24)        24    (24)        24    : 24)
- c                     130  ~~~~~~       ~~(101)  12    (64)  _Z-   ___7)    07     74,                       t)  136  31774      '58   (119)       147   (lll)       (34   (103)       136   (1033
Total                         (20   (1503        96    (70)    9)         (33S,    (11        94     144   (10))       160   (127)       182   (143)       (71   (135)       360  (127)        160   ( 127)                                        1264         15-0
Roth P-o)-t
-3                       ~~~ ~~~~~        ~~~55    (55)  26  '28)  34    (34)  44    (44)       480    (48)       44    (44)        64    (44,)       44    i44(        44    ( 444       44    ( 44)
- C                   1n2~~~~~~~~~~~~l  (110)  (04  (01)    109    (83)     03_7   13)6)     (72    )S)S)    (92   (03            14   (169)       203   ((3)        (92 (153)        192   (153)
T0ta1                         197   (165,       (32    (1377    (43   (117)         (00   3(140      220    (162)    234   (197)         258   (2131       247   3)05)       234   (1973       234   ( 197)                                        157          227
Lahoe  -oqoi-mentWithoio                      29                 39               17               20                26                30                34                33                30                30                                              22           32
(mao-day/ac)    -84cRi,                 31                 24              24                30                30                45                21                40               45                4)                                               26           47
5/  1.., 37       Ii )Jc    1 oI .u.ot,  01>  fnoOl  - td  A-ld, cv(oi2  u,;4/d- -.  (g--o, - ac                     -so   t   - ....... ...t 0,),al  lahoc  lou/ow  p-d 06 73/ad.y.I
7.'  Coll C-tooti-   A                      d 0   co  dtui-, gt(     nO   etjo    P-70100-  -d  07c          -47    76   0013-
7Phyu(7o  In-pts I       ollo,-oP-oopl.ct-lnL ro(                           ctl:c,          si(...  cdc,cc    d/-I   3-id
3)  T.-  -es     . acuted foc  -cd-tooco....I 



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRIOCLTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Costs: Pineapple
(M$/ac)
------------------------------------ Without Project ------------------------------------                        ---------------------------------------- With Project -----------------------------------
Crop                           1                        2                       3                       4                                        1                        2                         3                      4
Duration(months)         ----0-18 -----          ----19-30-----         -----31-42-----         -----43-54 -----        Average           -----0-18------        ----19-30 -----           ------31-42------   -----43-54-----             Average
A.   Q.it Rent  5               3                        3                       3                 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(per yr)                       533                                                                 (per yr)
A.   Quit Rent                              5       (-)           3          () 3))                              ~()~                                                                                                    -
Land Rent                            12      (-)            8          (-)           8         (-)           8         (-)                            12         (-)           8         (-)            8         (-)           8         (-)
Drainage Rate                        -       (-)         -             (-)          -          (-)          -          (-)                            15         (-)          10         (-)          10          (-)          10         (-)
B.   Planting Material                    145    (145)            5          (5)           5         (5)           5         (5)                           145       (145)           5         (5)            5         (5)           5         (5)
Sprayer                              15     (15)         -             (-)          -          (-)          -           -                             15        (15)         -           (-)         -            (-)         -           (-)
Fertilizer                          100    (100)          40         (40)           40        (40)          40        (40)                           120       (120)          50        (50)           50        (50)          50        (50)
Fungicide                            10     (101            5          (5)           5         (5)           5         (5)                            10        (10)           5         (5)            5         (5)           5         (5)
Pesticide                            10     (10)           10        (10)           10       (10)           10        (10)                            12        (12)          11        (11)          11        (11)           11        (11)
Hormones                              3      (3)            2          (2)           2         (2)           2         (2)                             3         (3)           2         (2)            2         (2)           2         (2)
C.   Clearing                             160    (120)         -             (-)        -            (-)         -           (-)                           160       (120)         -           (-)         -            C-)        -            (-)
Drainage                             33     (25)           13         (10)          13        (10)          13        (10)                            47        (35)          27        (20)          27        (20)           27        (20)
Roads                                33     (25)            8          (6)           8         (6)           8         (6)                            33        (25)           5         (4)            5         (4)           5         (4)
Planting                             93     (70)           20         (15)          20        (15)          20        (15)                            93        (70)          20         (5)           20        (15)          20        (15)
Weeding                              48     (36)           19         (14)          19        (14)          19        (14)                            48        (36)          19        (14)           19        (14)          19        (14)
De-crowning                          -       (-)            9          (7)           9         (7)           9         (7)                           -           (-)           9         (7)            9         (7)           9         (7)
Spraying                             20     (15)           13         (10)          13        (10)          13        (10)                            20        (15)          13        (10)           13        (10)          13        (10)
Fertilizing                          27     (20)           11          (8)          11         (8)          11         (8)                            29        (22)          12         (9)           12         (9)          12         (9)
Hormone Application                  19     (14)            9          (7)           9         (7)           9         (7)                            19        (14)           9         (7)            9         (7)           9         (7)
TOTAL FIXED COSTS:           733    (608)          175        (139)         175       (139)         175       (139)      280   (228)           786       (642)         208       (159)         208       (159)         208       (159)       313   (248)
Harvesting                       10.0Y   (7.4y)         10.0y      (7.4y)         10.0y    (7.4y)         10.0y    (7.4y)                           10.0y    (7.4y)         1O.Oy    (7.4y)         10.0y    (7.4y)        10.Oy        (7.4y)
Transport to road                 3.3y   (2.5y)          3.3y      (2.5y)          3.3y    (2.5y)          3.3y    (2.5y)                            1.7y    (1.3y)          1.7y    (1.3y)           1.7y    (1,3y)        1.7y        (1.3y)
to cannery            7.8y   (7.0y)          7.8y      (7.0y)         7.8y    (7.0y)          7.8y    (7.0y)                             5.8y    (5.3y)          5.8y    (5.3y)          5.8y    (5.3y)         5.8y       (5.3y)  15.6y (12.4y)
2/175                                                                                                                                                                           10y          175         10y
TOTAL VARIABLE COSTS:  21.1y (16.9y)              21.1y    (16.9y)         21.1y   (16.9y)         21.1y   (16.9y)  18.8y   (15.Oy)           17.5y   (14.07)         17.5y   (l.5y   (14.0Y)                        l7,y       (14.0Y)
Labor requirement
(man-days/oc)                   108+4.Oy              26+4.Oy                   26+4.Oy                 26+4.Oy          41.3  +  3.6y            112+3.5y                29+3.5y                  29+3.5y                29+3.5y            44.2  + 3.1y
/1  Costs include all labor, both family and hired, evaluated at M$4/day.  Figures in parentheses ore econo,oic costs with all labor shadow priced at M$3/day.
72   y = yield in ton/sc.
*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0 



*                                                                                                                      S 
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AORICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Costs: Ol Polo
(M$/ac)
Year                                   1                   2                   3                  4                   6                   8               10                  15                 20                25         IJmature  Mature
Fined Costs
A. Quit Rent!/                                           2       (-)         2       (-)         2       (-)        2       (-)        13       (-)       13       (-)      13       (-)       13       (-)       13       (-)      13       (-)
Drainage Rate                                       10       (-)        10       (-)        10       (-)        10      (-)        10       (-)       10       (-)       10      (-)       10       (-)       10                 10       (-)
B. Plooting Material                                   120    (120)          4       (4)         4      (4)        -        (-)        -        (-)       -        (-)      -        (-)       -        (-)       -       (- j               (-)
Fertilicer                                           10     (10)        50      (50)        60     (60)         70    ( 70g        80      (80)       80      (80)       80     ( 80)      70      ( 70)      60     ( 60)      40      (40)
Ins-cticide                                         -        (-)         4       (4)         2       (2)        2       (2)         8       (8)        8       (8)        8      (8)        6       (6)        4       (4)        4       (4)
C. Clearing, toads, etc.                                85      (64)         2       (2)         5      (4)         4       (3)         2       (2)        1      (1)         1      (1)        1       (1)        1      (1)        1       (1)
Drainage                                            30      (23)        12       (9)         8       (6)         8      (6)         9       (7)        9       (7)        9      (7)        9       (7)        9       (7)        9       (7)
Lining, holing, planting                            32      (24)        -        -          -        -          -       (-)        -        (-)       -        (-)       -       (-)       -        (-)       -        (-)       -        (_
Weeding                                             40      (30)        40      (30)        40      (30)        30     (22)        22      (16)       22      (16)       20     (15)       19      (14)        7      (13)       15     (11)
Fertilizing                                           2      (2)         8       (6)        10       (8)        10      (8)        1o       (8)       10       (8)       10      (8)       10       (8)       10       (8)        6       (4)
Spraying                                            -          )        11       (8)        10       (8)         7      (5)         2       (2)        2       (2)        2      (2)        2       (2)        1       (1)        1       (1)
Prosing, castration, pollination                     -       (                   (6)        10       (8)       20      (16)        14       (9)       12       (7)       10      (5)        6       (4)        6       (4)        6      (4)
Sub-Total                                  331    (273)       151    (119)        161    (130)        163    (132)        170    (132)      167    (129)       163    (126)       146    (112)      131      (98)      105      (72)
Witho,It FrotEt
Yield  (ton/ac)-ffb                                      -                   _                  -                  0.5                3.8                 5.6              5.8                5.6                 5.1               4.0
-oil                                   -                    _                 -                   0.08              0.65                1.18              1.22              1.18                1,07               0.84
-herone                                -                    -                 -                   0.02              0.13                0.22              0.23              0.22                0.20               0.16
Vorisble Costs
H-rvesting and tronsport                             -       -          _                   _       _ -         1       (1)        5l      (48)       78      (64)       81     (66)       /°      (64)       72     (59)       58      (46)
Processing                                                                                                       6      (6)        30      (27)       39      (35)      41      (37)       39      (35)       36     (32)       28      (25)
Transport and port handling                         _        -          -        -          -                    2      (2)         9       (9)       16      (14)       18     (16)       16      (14)       15     (13)       12      (11)
Contingency                                             33      (27)        13       (9)        13     (10)        15      (11)        23      (17)      26      (20)       26      (20)       24     (19)       22      (17)       18      (13)
Total Costs                                364    (300)       164    (128)        174    (140)        187    (160)       289    (331)       326    (262)       329    (265)      303    (254)       276    (219)       219    (167)        218        285
Goons Vaine of Production-oil                           -        -          -        _          _       -          33      (37)       265    (299)      481    (543)       498    (561)      481    (583)       437    (492)       343    (386)
-kernci                  -        -          -        -          -       -            5      (5)        31      (31)       52     (52)       54      (54)       52      (52)      47      (47)       38      (38)
Net VoIce of Production                               -359   (-295)      -139   (-103)       -144   (-110)       -114    (-83)         47    (139)      247    (373)       263    (390)      265    (376)       238    (350)       182    (277)
Labor r-quiremnnt (eon-day/ac)                            47                   20                 21                  20                28                  34               34                 32                  30                24                28         30
With 'r e)cct
Yicld  (ton/ac)-ffb                                     -                    -                  -                  0.7                5.6                8.2               8.5                8.2                7.4                5.9
-oil                                   -                    -                 -                   0.08              0.95                1.72              1.78              1.72                1.55               1.24
-khrnel                                                                       -                   0.02              0.20                0.33              0.34              0.33                0.30               0.24
Variahlc Costs
CHorvesting cd transport                                                                                        10      (8)        67      (52)       91      (72)       94     (74)       91      (72)       81     (64)       65      (51)
proc..s..g                                          _        _          _                                        8      (7)        45      (40)       57      (51)       59     (53)       57      (51)       52     (47)       41      (37)
Transport and port haodling                         -        _          _                   _       _            2      (2)        14      (12)       24      (22)       25     (23)       24      (22)       21     (19)       17      (15)
Contingency                                             33     (27)         13      (9)        13      (10)        15     (11)         26     (20)       30      (23)       30      (24)       28     (22)       25      (20)       21      (15)
Total Costs                                364    (300)       164    (128)        174    (140)        198    (160)        322    (256)      369    (297)       371    (300)       246    (279)      310    (24a)       249    (190)        219        321
Gross Va.Ie at Production-oil                           -        -          -                  _        _          33      (37)       388    (437)      702    (791)       726    (819)      702    (791)       632    (713)       506    (570)
-khrstl                  -        -          -        -          -       -            5      (5)        47      (47)       78     (78)       80      (80)       78      (78)       70     (70)       56      (56)
Not V.lue of Prodution                                -.359   (-295)     -139   (-103)       -144   (-1iO)       -125    (-83)        153    (268)      451    (612)       475    (639)       469    (625)      422    (565)       333    (456)
Labor r-quire-nnt (nan-doy/ar)                            46                   20                 16                  20                36                  41               41                 38                  34                 29               26         36
1/  Costs i-clude all labor, both  ianily and hl-ed, evaluated at M$4/day.  Piguresiopnconchostsarrce IO:io  costs with all labor shadow pricod at 0$3/day.
2/  Lend Tan. ..



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production Costs: Banana, Groundnut and Tapioca
(M$/ac)l/
2/                                  3/
Banana                           Groundnut                                            Tapioca
Without          With          First Crop       Later Crop                Fivst Year                    Later Year
A.   Quit Rent                           -4/  (-)       -    (-)         1      ()        1      ()                 3             ()               3            ()
Drainage Rate                      -    (-)       -    (-)          3      (-)      3      (-)               10             (-)             10             (-)
B.   Planting Material                   2    (2)      2    (2)         53    (53)       20    (20)                20            (20)          _             _
Fertilizer, Lime                  30   (30)    15   (30)          160   160)      60    (60)               180           (180)            120          (120)
Pesticide                          5    (5)       5    (5)         15    (15)      15    (15)              -            _                 _
Weedicide                          5    (5)       5    (5)         -       -       -       -               -             -                -
Tools, Packing Materials, etc.  4    (4)          4    (4)        40      (40)     30    (30)                10            (10)             10           (10)
C.   Clearing and Draining               -    (-)      -    (-)        100    (75)       10      (8)             100            (75)             10             (8)
Land Preparation                   3    (2)       3    (2)         20    (18)      20    (18)                20            (18)             16           (12)
Lining and Holing                  7    (5)       7    (5)         -      -        -       -
Planting                           3    (2)       3    (2)        28    (21)       28    (21)                12             (9)             12            (9)
Fertilizing                        4    (3)       4    (3)          6      (5)      6      (5)                8             (6)             17             (5)
Liming                             -    (-)       -    (-)          6      (5)      6      (5)                8             (6)              1             (1)
Pest Control                       7    (5)       7    (5)         4      (3)       4      (3)             -                (-)          -                (-)
Weeding                           24   (14)    24   (14)           20    (15)      20    (15)                20            (15)             20            (15)
Harvesting                              14   (11)    20   (15)          64    (48)       64    (48)             3.3y.5/        (2.5)           3.3y          (2.5y)
Contingency                              -    (-)       -    (-)        44    (38)       26    (22)          30+.33y       (25+.25y)        15+.33y      (l12--.225y)
Total Costs                            108   (88)   114   (92,         564   (496)      313   (270)        421+3.63y   (364+2.75y)       224+3.63y   (192+2.75y)
Labor requirement (man-day/ac)             15             17               62               40                   42+0.82y                      16.5+0.22y
/1  Costs incltide all labor, both family and hired, evaluated at M$4/day.  Figures in parentheses are economic costs with all labor shadow priced at
M$3/day.
!2 Costs averaged over five-year life.
/3 Costs per crop. Three crops per year estimated.
/4 Taxes accounted for under coconut.
/5 y = yield in tons tubers/ac.
. n



*                                                                                                    * 
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income: Rubber/Oil Palm Smallholder
A = 4.7 ac                                              B = 10.2 ac                                              C = 14.5 ac
1973              1983                 2003               1973             1983                   2003             1973              1983                  2003
Area (ac)                                                                      W         W            W        W                         W        W            W        W                         W         W                     w
Rubber                                                         4.0          4.0       -           4.0       -           8.9          8.9       -           8.9       -           12.0         12.0      -           12.0
Oil Palm                                                        -           -         4.0         -         4.0          -           -         8.9          -        3.9          -                    12.0          -        12.0
Coconut                                                        0.4          0.4      0.4          0.4       0.4         0.8          0.8       0.8          0.8      0.8          1.5          1.5       1.5         1.5       1.5
Other - Mixed Horticulture                                     0.3          0.3      0.3          0.3       0.3         0.5          0.5       0.5         0.5       0.5          1.0          1.0      1.0          1.0       1.0
Total                                                     4.7         4.7       4.7         4.7       4.7         10.2        10.2      10.2         10.2     10.2         14.5         14.5    14.5          14.5      14.5
Net Income (M$/ac)
Rubber                                                          14d         184       227         262       353          146         184       227          262      353          146          184       2f7          262      353
Oil Palm                                                       -            -         667          -        667          -           -         667          -        667          -            -         667         -         667
Coconut                                                         113         154       147         223       257          113         154       147          223      257          113          154       147          223      2!57
Other                                                           132         132       187         132       297          132         132       187          132      297          132          132      187           132      297
Net Income (M$/farm)
Rubber   - mature                                              467          611       -           865       -         1,037        1,362       -         1,913       -          1,402        1,822      -          2,568       -
- immature @ 129                                     103           88      -             90      -            232          194      -            206      -            310          271       -            284      -
oil Palm - mature                                              -            -      1,494          -      2,601          -            -      3,315          -       5,736          -            -      4A 69          -      7,757
-immature @ 172                                      -            -        303          -         17          -            -        676          -         52          -            -         912          -         64
Coconut  - mature                                               42           54        54          80        95           80         108       106         156       180          148          209      200          299       347
-immature @ 22                                         1            1        1            1        1            2            2        2            2         2            4            4        4            4        4
Other                                                           40           40       56           40 .g                 66           66        93           66      148          132          132      187          132       297
Total Net On-Farm Income (excluding labor)               653          794   1,908         1,076    2,803        1,417        1,732   4,192         2,343    6,118         1,996        2,438    5,772        3,287    8,469
Hired Labor - man-days                                             -            -        -            -        -            -            -        -            -        -               8          17       -             17        2
- cost (M$/farm)                                     -            -        -            -        -            -            -        -            -        -             32           68       -             68        8
Net On-Farm Income (rounded)                                       650         790   1,910         1,080    2,800        1,420        1,730   4,190         2,340    6,120         1,960        2,370   5,770         3,220    8,460
Other Income                                                       800         800       900          800   1,100           800          800      900          800   1,100           650          650       600          650      500
Total Income                                           1,450        1,590    2,810        1,880    3,900        2,220        2,530    5,090         3,140    7,220        2,610        3,020    6,370        3,870   8,960
_  _                                                             _            _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3



MLAAYS IA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Incooc: Coconut ...llhotdcc
A: 3.5 oc                                                         B: 13.3 ac                                                                C: 20.0 or
1973              1983                      2003                 1973                  1983                          2003                  1973                  1983                           2003
rF--2                                                                                                                                  =    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  4  1-F   B-WT 14-W
Ate.                                           w     w7                W~~~~~~~~~~~4 1' 1                  B2       B-'      82'                  WI'/                                                  2/         -         17
Area (ac)                                                 -         W    __ W                   -       -W                                 -       W          WW                W                                   -        -W                    -       W
Coconut                                      2,5      2.5      2.5   2.5        2.5      2.5      2.5         9.4          9.4      9.4      9.4          9.4      9.4      9.4         15.0        15.0    15.0       15.0        15.0    15 0    15.0
Cocoa                                         -        -       2.5     -         -       2.5      -            -           -        9.4      -            -        9.4      -            -           -       15.0       -           -       1550       -
Ban.a.                                        -        -       -      2.5        -       -        2.5          -           -        -        9.4          -        -        9.4          -           -         -       15.0          -        -       15.0
Robber                                       0.7      0.7      0.7   0.7        0.7      0.7      0.7          3.2         3.2      3.2      3.2          3.2      3.2      3.2         4.0          4.0      4.0       4.0         4.0      4.0       4.0
Other                                        0.3      0.3      0.3   0.3         .3      0.3                   0.7         07       0.       0            0.7      0.7      0.7          1.O         1.0       1.0      1,0          1.0      1.0      1.0
Total                                      3.5      3.5    (6.0) (6.0)        3.5    (6.0)    (6.0)        13.3         13.3   (22.7)  (22.7)         13.3   (22.7)  (22.7)          20.0         20.0   (35.0)  (35.0)          20.0   (35.0)  (35.0)
Net Income (M$/ac)
Cocaont                                      113      154      147   147        223      257      257          113         154      147      147          223      257      257          113          154      147      147          223      257      257
Cocoa                                         36      318      434   434        269      586      586           36         318      434      434          269      586      586           36         318      434       434         269       586      586
Banana                                       127      127      204   204        127      204      204          127         127      204      204          127      204      204          127          127      204      204          127      204      204
Robber                                       146      184      227   227        262      353      353          [46         184      227      227          262      353      353          146          184      227      227          262      353      353
Other                                        132      132      187   187        132      297      297          132         132      187      187          132      297      297          132          132      187      187          132      297      297
Net Inco.e (M$/ftre)
COCODUt - oature                             254      288      184   184        502      578      578          931       1,078      691      691       1,887   2,172    2,172         1,525        1,732    1,103    1,103        3,010   3,470   3,470
- immatore 22                         6       14       27    27          6        6        6           26          53      103      103           21       21       21           33          82      165       165          33        33       33
Cocoa   - matore                             --       --       651   --         --    1,392       --           --          --    2,448       --           --    5,227       --           --          --    3,906        --          --    8,345        --
-Rimature128                        --       --       128   --                   16      --                                481      --                     61      --            _          __       512       --                     97      --
Banana                                       --       --       --    510        --       --       510          --          __       --    1,918           --       --    1,918           --          --        --    3,060          --        --    3,060
Robber  - mature                              80      103      132   132        152      205      205          372         488      601      601          694      935      935         467          607       749      749         865   1,165    1,165
-oimmature 129                       19       18       15    15         15       15       15          84           71       71       71           71       71       71         103           90       90        90          90        90       90
Other                                         40       40   _56    56            40       89       89       _92             92   _ 131       131           92      208      208          132         132       187      187         132       297      297
Total Net On-Form Inoae                   399      463   11_93   924         715   I2    1 403           1,505        1,782   4326    .515          2765    695        325         2,260        2,643   6,712 5,354            4,130  13,497 8    ,115
(exclodiog labor)                                                                                                                    _____       ____   ____
Total Labor Toot - (m$/faco)                    221      228      496   434        223      475      414          906          931   1,952   1,719           914   1,870    1,643         1,281        1,319    2,931   2,559         1,292   2,801    2,439
-(man-doys)                   55       57      124   109         56      119      104          227         233      488      430          229      468      411          320         330       733      640          323      700      610
hi-d Lobor -(coo-days)                           --      --       --    --         --        --       --          --           --        38      --          --         16      --          --           --       283      190          --       250      160
-(M$/faco)                         --       --       --    --        --        --       --          --           --       152      --          --         64      --          --           --    1,132       760          --     1,000      640
Net O-Fore Incooe - M$                          400      460   1,190   920         720   2,300    1,400         1,510       1,780   4,370    3,520         2,770   8,630   5,330          2,260       2,640    5,580    4,590         4,130   12,500    7,480
Other Income - M$                               800   _800    0850   900    _800   1,050   1,5l0                  630         630       650      700         630      700   _750           600           600      500      550          600      400      450
Total Farm Income - M$                 1_20 1,26    2_040           O    1,520   3,350   2,500           2,140       2,410   5,020 II2I  IL=         94 35    6,080                36 22240    6,080   5,140                  4,73    12,90      7,93
_    =     .20      200.2             __                __          _____                ____
1/   Cocoa intercrop. 
2/   Banana itercrop., 
*                                              .*f



*                                                                                        
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income: Pineapple Smallholder
A = 8.0 ac                                         B = 11.7 ac                                        C = 13.2 ac
1973          1983                2003            1973            1983                2003           1973           1983                  2003
W       W           W  W      W             W                          W W                 W                    W          W        W
Area (ac)
Pineapple                                         4.0        4.0     4.0         4.0      4.0        7.9        7.9      7.9        7.9      7.9       10.0        10.0     10.0       10.0     10.0
Rubber                                            3.5        3.5      3.5        3.5      3.5        3.2        3.2      3.2        3.2      3.2        2.5         2.5      2.5        2.5      2.5
Other                                             0.5        0.5      0.5        0.5      0.5        0.6        0.6      0.6        0.6      0.6        0.7         0.7      0.7        0.7      0.7
Total                                          8.0        8.0      8.0        8.0      8.0       11.7       11.7     11.7       11.7     11.7       13.2        13.2     13.2       13.2     13.2
Net Income (MS/ac)
Pineapple                                         233       288      367         319      521        233        288      367        319      521        233         288      367        319      521
Rubber                                             68        88       110        120      182         68         88      110        120      182         68          88      110        120      182
Other                                             120        120      170        120      270        120        120      170        120      270        120         120      170        120      270
Net Income (MS/farm)
Pineapple                                         932      1,152    1,468      1,276    2,084      1,841      2,275    2,899      2,520    4,116      2,330       2,880    3,670      3,190    5,210
Rubber - mature                                   190       256       320        349      530        174        234      293        319      484        136         183      229        250      379
- immature                                 105        53       66          72      109         44         48       59         65       98         34         38       47          52       78
Other                                             60         60       85          60      135         72         72      102         72      162         84          84      119         84      189
Total On-Farm Income (excluding labor)       1,287      1,521    1,939      1,757    2,858      2,131      2,629    3,353      2,976    4,860      2,584       3,185    4,065      3,576    5,856
Total Labor - M$/farm                             1,624      1,711    1,840       1,795    1,932      2,659      2,818    3,021      2,983    3,202      3,139      3,336    3,571       3,546    3,801
- Mae-days                              406        428      460        449       483        665        705      755        746      801        785        834       893        887      950
Net On-Farm Income                                 1,287      1,521    1,899      1,757    2,726      1,271      1,609    2,133      1,792    3,456      1,244      1,649    2,293       1,828    3,856
Other Income                                         800       800      750        800       650        750        700      650        600      450        700        650      600         550      400
Total Net Farm Income - M$                   2,087      2 ,321    2,699     2,557    3,376      2,021      2,309    2,783      2,392    3,906      1,944       2,299    2,893      2,378    4,256
a1
X X



A .-EX 14
Table 8
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Income - Annual Crop Smallholder
A = 2.5ac              B = 5.Oac             C = 10.Oac
1983     2003        1983      2003        1983      2003
---------------------With Project---------------------
Area (ac)
Tapioca                                    1.5       1.5         3.5       3.5         7.0       7.0
Groundnut                                  0.5       0.5         0.75      0.75        1.5       1.5
Vegetable                                  0.5       0.5         0.75      0.75        1.5       1.5
Net Income (M$/ac)
Tapioca                                    259       424         259       424         259       424
Groundnut                                1,343    1,851        1,343    1,851        1,343    1,851
Vegetable                                2,363    2,363        2,363    2,363        2,363    2,363
Net Income (M$/farm)
Tapioca                                    389       636         907    1,484        1,813    2,968
Groundnut                                  672       926       1,007    1,388        2,015    2,777
Vegetable                                1,182    1,182        1,772    1,772        3,545    3,545
Total On-Farm Income                  2,243    2,744        3,686    4,644        7,373    9,290
Labor Required (M$/ac)
Tapioca                                     99       111          99       111          99       111
Groundnut                                  480       480         480       480         480       480
Vegetable                                1,200    1,200        1,L00    1,200        1,200    1,200
Labor Cost (M$/farm)
Tapioca                                    149       167         347       389         693       777
Groundnut                                  240       240         360       360         720       720
Vegetable                                  600       600         900       900       1,800    1,800
Total                                   989    1,007        1,607    1,649        3,213    3,297
Total Labor  Man-days)                        247       252         402       412         803       824
Hired Labor - man-days                         -         -           _                    353       374
- M$/farm                        -         -           -         -         1,412    1,496
Net On-farm Income - MS                     2,240    2,740        3,690    4,640        5,960    7,790
Other Income - M$                              100       100        150       150         200       200
Total Farm Income - M$                2,340    2,840        3,840    4,790        6,160    7,990



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Total Farm Income
------------ 1973                 …     _____-----…1983  …--          -  …2003                         …
With Project
Area            Net Income            Area           Net Income              Area           Net Income
('000 ac)    (M$/ac)    (M$ in)       ('000 ac)    (M$/ac)    (M$ m.)        ('000 ac)    (M$/ac)    (M$ m.)
Mature Crops
Rubber                                  69.5          146        10.1          60.8          227        13.8           9.4          353          3.3
Coconut                                 50.0          113         5.6          48.5          147         7.1          47.0          269         12.6
Cocoa                                    0.5           36            0          8.5          434         3.7          28.8          586         16.9
Coffee                                    2.6         292           .8          6.5          442          2.9          9.4          552          5.2
Banana                                   4.0          127         0.5           7.0          204         1.4          10.0          204         2.0
Pineapple                               34.9          233         8.2          37.5          367        13.8          45.0         1,21        23.4
Oil Palm                                    0         413            0         14.0          667         9.3          57.0          667        38.0
Tapioca                                     0                        0         15.0          259          3.9         40.0          424         17.0
Groundnut                                   0                        0          3.0        1,343         4.0          10.0        1,851         18.5
Vegetables                                0.1       2 3 63         0.2          5.0       2,363         11.8          10.0        2,363         23.6
Mixed Horticulture                       1927         110          2.2         19.7          165          3.3         19.7          Z75          5.4
1/
Sub-Total                           174.2                     27,6        203.5                      75.0        238.1                     165.9
Immature Crops
Rubber                                  17.0          129         2.2           1.2          129         0.2           0.6          129         0.1
Coconut                                   3.0          22         0.1           4.5           22         0.1           6.0           22         0.1
Cocoa                                    1.7          128         0.2           5.5          128         0.7           1.2          128         0.2
Coffee                                    1.9         200         0.2           1.5          200         0.3           0.6          200          0.1
Oil Palm                                  0.2         172            0         11.0          172         1.9           3.0          172         0 q
1/
Sub-Total                            20.2                      2.7          16.7                      3.2           9.6                      1.0
TOTAL                          194.4                     30'3         220M2                      78.2        247.7                    166.9
Non-Agricultural Income                                  50          9.7                        50         11,0                        50         12.4
Total Farm Income - M$ m.                                          40.0                                   89.9                                   179,3
Number of farm families '000                             29                                     36                                     56
Income/family - M$                                                1,379                                  2,477                                 3,202
Number of Farms '000                                     19                                     24                                     37
Income/farm - M$                                                  2,105                                  3,716                                 4,846_
o.x
>
/1 Totals do not include coconut intercrops.






ANNEX I5
Page  1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis
:.sumpt ions
1.        The assumptions used in deriuing the time stream of costs and
benefits are described in the following paragraphs.
2.        Capital Costs  -  Estimated project expenditures from Annex 9,
Table 1, were used, less the following amounts:
(a) Processing Plants - in the case of oil palm, the cost
of processing has been included, on a per unit of output
basis, in the production cost. For the other crops the
price used forevaluating production has been applied
to the unprocessed product at the farmgate;
(b)  Replanting Grants  -  costs of replanting have been
included, year by year, as they would occur, as part
of the production costs;
(c) Price Contingencies - all costs and benefits have
been evaluated in constant 1973 currency values;
(d) Muda Irrigation Improvement Study.
3.        Annual Costs  -  The full costs of operating and maintaining the
project works and providing agricultural supporting services have been
included.
4.        Agricultural Inputs  -  Al1 physical inputs have been costed at
their t974 market values, as there are no major taxes, subsidies or other
market distortions, which might cause any significant divergence from real
economic values.
5.        Crop ?rices  -  Amnex 15 explains the derivation of the prices
used in this analysis. Projected prices for the early 1980's are used,
rather than prices which vary with time, as approximately the same result
will be obtained anc the calculation is simplified. Prices, net of duties
and cesses, have been brought back to farm-gate level, except for oil
palm. In this case, the costs and benefits of the whaole production process
have been evaluated as the provision of transport and milling facilities
_         is part of the project.



ANNEX 15
Page  2
6.        Farm Labor  -  As there is considerable underemployment in the
project area, under present and projected future conditions, a shadow
wage rate for farm labor of M$ 3/man-day, which is 75% of the market rate,
has been used. The derivation of this is described in para 9.
7.        Evaluation Period  -  A period of thirty years has been used for
project evaluation.
Labor Analysis
8.        According to the 1970 census, the population in the project area
was 193,000, of whom 23,000 were urban dwellers. Table 1 shows a popula-
tion projection to the year 2003 using a growth rate of 2.5% for the total
area, corresponding to a rate slightly lower than the national average in
recent years, and a growth rate of 4% for the urban areas. The rural
population is given by subtraction. A family size of six, including the
equivalent of 1.8 full-time workers and a working year of 250 days, has
been assumed. Both the latter figures are less than would be the case
in other Asian countries, reflecting the Malaysian standard of living and
the high proportion of children in school. Based on these assumptions, the
labor supply will increase from 13 million man-days in 1973 to 25 million
man-days in 2003.
9.        Labor requirements were calculated for each crop with and without.
the project.  For the tree crops, labor requirements for the immature and
mature periods were separately averaged. Labor demand does not vary
seasonally to any great extent, except to a degree in the pineapple in-
dustry, so seasonal effects were ignored. Total labor requirements for
selected years are shown in Table 2. It is seen that, under present
conditions, labor demand is only half the available supply. With the
project, the utilization factor rises to a peak of 61% while, without the
project, it falls to 28% by 2003. However, this analysis does not take
account of non-farm employment, in agricultural processing and other indus-
trial employment and in services. At present, such opportunities are
mainly limited to pineapple canneries, copra mills and trucking. However,
a reasonable increase in employment in processing and service industries
may be expected due to the project and, in the longer term, the project
area will find itself on the fringe of the Singapore-Johore Bahru conurba-
tion and employment opportunities will be greatly enhanced.
10.       After weighing all those factors, it was decided that a shadow
wage rate of 75% would be a fair representation of the opportunity cost
of labor under present and expected future conditions in the project area.
As mentioned previously, no seasonal variation was assumed. As the market
wage rate for casual farm labor in the project area is around M$ 4/day,
a value of M$ 3/day was used in the economic analysis. It is interesting
to note that surveys of prospective FELDA settlers, who are landless
laborers and marginal smallholders, have shown that their previous income
was about M$ 2.90/day, reinforcing the belief that the opportunity cost of
labor in the small-holder sector is about M$ 3/man-day.



ANNEX 15
Page  3
Project Benefits
11.       The time stream of benefits or the incremental net value of
production from each crop is shown in Table 3, based on the planting
schedules described in Annex 3, and the crop budgets described in Annex 15.
It is seen that, in the early years, the existing crops, rubber and
pineapple, are the major contributors to project benefits. After ten years,
the cash crops, tapioca, groundnut and vegetables, begin to contribute
heavily. In 1993, benefits from rubber become negligible, while oil palm
sad cocoa begin to make a contribution. At the end of the evaluation
period, the greatest benefits are obtained from oil palm, followed by
tapioca, groundnut and pineapple. Cocoa and vegetables are also impor-
tant while coconut, horticulture, coffee and bananas are minor contri-
butors. By this time the incremental net value of production from rubber
is negative, due to a declining acreage with the project.
Rate of Return
12.       The cost and benefit streams are tabulated in Table 4.  The
economic rate of return of the project, under the assumptions described
in paras 1-7, is 14.8%.
13.       The sensitivity of the rate of return to some of the important
assumptions made in formulating the project has been tested.  The following
results were obtained:
Test                        Rate of Return
(a)  All labor evaluated at M$ 4/man-day;            14.0
(b) Cost over-run of 15% and benefit
slip of 15%;                                   11.6
(c)  Benefits increased by 25%.                      17.6






ANK'Ex 15
Table 1
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Population and Labor Force
Year  Population          Urban  2/    Rural        Farm        Farm          Labor
Project Area - Population-  Population   Families3/ Workers4/         Supply-
(million man-days)
1970    193,000         223,000_./    170,000      28,000       51,000        12.8
1973    200,000          26,000       174,000       29,000      52,000        13.0
1983    256,000          39,000       217,000      36,000       65o000        16.3
1993    327,000          57,000       270,000      45,ooo       81,o000       20.2
2003    419,000          85,000       334,000      56,000      100,000        25.0
1/  Growth rate of 2.5% per annum assumed.
2/ Growth rate of 4% per annum assumed.
3/ Six persons per family.
I/ 1.8 equivalent full-time workers per family.
'/ 250 days of work per year.
c5/ From 1970 Census.
0



ANNEX 15
ra be 2
MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE i~ICULTUAL DEVLPMENT PRJT
Labor ReqxdJo3nnts
(00  manday)
Year                      973             1983             1993            2003
With (w) or
without (w) Project                                w        w       w      w        w
Crcp
Rnbber - immature         306            252      29      243      14     218      14
- mature '        2850           2788    2675    2604    1294    2374    414
Coconut: Replanted
- immature          17             17      76      19      102      17    102
- mature            31             53     102      75      204      97    324
Coconut:. Rehabilitated
- immaturu          12             12      12       20       0      10      0
- mature           126            154     210      182     324     207    204
Coconut: Balance          396            314     126      242      36     165     36
Cocoa - immature           41             17     132       15      72      14      29
- mature             8             73     196       75     506      75    662
Goffee - imnature          20             13      39       13      16      13      16
- mature            83            173     306     237      442     237    442
Bananas                    60             90     119      120     170     120    170
Pineapple                 2590          2590    2862    2660    3279    2835   3780
Oil Palm                   10             65     313      152     733     239    884
Tapioca                                   - _    453       -      806      -    1146
Grouiadnut                  -             -      371       -      849      -    1204
Vegetables                 30            150    1500      300    3000     300   3000
Horticulture               197           197     236      197     296     197    355
Total     6,777         6,958   9,757   7,154  12,143   7,118 12,782
of supply                 52            43      61       35      60      28      51



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Incremental Value of Production
(M$ Million)
Year      Rubber  Coconut   Cocoa   Coffee   Bananas  Pineapple    Oil Palm   Tapioca   Groundnut   Vegetables   Horticulture            Total
1974       1.47    (0.49)   (0.07)  (0.10)       0.33     0.20         0.00      001         0.01         0.11            0.11          1.66
1975       2.10    (0.49)   (0.07)  (0.20)       0.22     0.60         0.00       0.03        0.03         0.11            0.22         2.86
1976       2.59    (0.49)   (0.07)       0       0.33     1.00        (0030)      0.08        0.08         0.33            0.33          3.88
1977       2.95    (0.49)   (0.14)  (010)       0.33     1.60        (0.70)      0.06        0.16         0.55            0.44         4.76
1978       3.30    (0.49)   (0.15)       0       0M33     2,30        (0.90)      0,18        0.37         0.99            0.55          6.48
1979       3.64     0.32    019    0.11         0.44     3.10        (0.35)      0.70        0.80         1.65            0,66         13.52
1980       3.81     0,32      0.53    0.11       0.44     4.00         1,10       1.10        1.27         2,20            0.77        15.65
1981       3.75     0.32      0.87    0.11       0.44     4.60         2.37       1.50        1.73         3.52            0.88         20.09
1982       3,65     0.32      1.21    0.22       0.55     4.80         3.50       1.95        2.26         4.84            0.99         23.18
1983       3.73     0.32      1.55    0,22       0.55     5,30         5,23       2.55        2.87         6.16            1.10         29.58
1988      (0.32)    1.91      4.48    0.99       0.88     7,10        14.51       5.70        5,56         8,47            1.65        50.93
1993      (3.71)    2.67      8.22    1.43       0.88     9.90        25.56       8.22        8.79        12,21            2.20         76.37
1998      (6,95)    3,34      9,21    1,54       0.88    11.00        34.32      10.98       12.58        12.21            2,75        91.86
H >
2003     (10.00)    4.07    10.32    1,43        0.88    12.50        27.12      14.13       14.91        12.21            3.30         90.87  a,
I-n



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rate of Return Calculation
(M$ Million)
Civil        Physical                                   Engineering                                   Agricultural        Total        Total
Year    Works    Contingencies         Equipment    Land        & Supervision    Replanting          0 & M       Services          Costs       Benefits
1974      5.83           --               --         4.66           1.17                --             --           --             11.66         1.66
1975     25.63           --               --         6.99           2.80               1.63           1.63         0.30            38.98         2.86
1976     25.63         4.66              4.66        1.40           2.79               2.33           1.86         0.70            44.03         3.88
1977     25,63         4.66              9.32          --           1.16               2.33           2.10        1.20             46.40         4.76
1978     13,98         4.66              2.33          __           1.16               2.33           2.33         1.40            28.19         6.48
1979      3.50         5.82              2.10          --           0.70                --            3.03        1.50             16.65        13.52
1980      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50        15.65
1981      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       20.09
1982      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50         2.00             5.50        23.18
1983      --             --               --           -             --                 --            3.50        2e00              5.50       29.58
1984      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3,50        2.00              5.50        31.14
1985      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       35.90
1986      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       40.77
1987      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3,50        2.00              5.50       45.53
1988      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       50.93
1989      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50        56.70
1990      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       61.47
1991      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3,50        2.00              5.50        66.14
1992      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3,50        2.00              5.50        71.44
1993             --                       --          --             --                 --            3,50        2.00              5.50       76.37
1994      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50        79.70
1995      --             --               --          --             --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       82.49
1996      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       85.39
1997      --             --               --          --             --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50       88.19
1998      --                                                                                          3.50        2.00              5.50        91.86
1999      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50        91.91
2000             --                       --           --             --                --            3,50         2.00             5.50        91.71
2001      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50        2.00              5.50        91.53
2002      --             --               --           --             --                --            3.50         2.00             5.50        91.20        w 
2003      --             --               --           --            --                 --            3.50         2.00             5.50        90.87
Rate of Return = 14.8%



MALAYSIA
WESTERN JOHORE
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - PHASE I
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
1974                                             1975                                             1976                                         -    1977                                               1978                                 1979
CONTRACT                    DESCRIPTION OF WORKS                                           MONTHS                                            MONTHS                                            MONTHS                    12MONTHS                                                                  MONTHS                               MONTHS
1     1 4 5 16 17  6 81H  19  11 172  -1 2   3   4 5  6   7   9    9  110111112   1 2 13 14 15 16 17  r    5   0111    1  2  3   4   5   6   7 1 5   9  110111112   11 2 131 4   6    6 17  9    9  160111 12
DID WORKS
BY DID      Coas-I BSd-  G-teS- SgSrgl gt P-1-ore  Be-a
ICokup b-sncmlt. -p1- l-d,.,  -, .,d  -t,,,aI dr-m,         r r
2         _nds, b,~dl- andstuctt=
Feeder  dcar0    K.k p ar                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         _ _  _ _  _ _  __ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _
3        Feeder, dre o-  A-e- K-hm Iteb- 
Avt5           ai  oP-   et- B-l b.-
Fendmr drais-     Ay,r   Soo                                                                                                                                  _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __-_ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _
SarS-,I-a y    c-o,CocO-                                     l  
7   Fneoo, dra-rr  S5PS-,i-,
51ba   aorpgonenscmpt .                                                  
C-1-tiint,-o lo 0Ag-rocl-ts Sn-nl-rnen Centers                                                                                                                               AGRICULTURE
11   A,-.1no-tiCrlCe-r  orflssPnlt& I1,P-otS-1-arrooanoI mI
NOTE-
1 AllFeede  OtrsAeT   eConutdS   oo   ok   otatWnOSo-7989(R)
2  Tender F.' Co-a-t No. 1 -to Ate TO Ba Called In A-,odan- Arnfh W.tIt1 Sank Gor-olne  For,Ireeratroal Corperers   rBd-k
2. Sesry  And Con-toc  Prepaasro  Sna-td 0~1973 On Constant 1, 2,6. 7 Arr 19






--------------------------           R:
i, .-- , . . ' ,:, . s,  j  /    d    b 
I;9 *-s                 W               >e
i  * 
Il/,y,:g              X                                             X
I '   -'  ii  12  S;R    0  L
D~~~~~~~~~                                                






I BRD 10695
AYE93!,R   HITAM                               1o3!2rr                             m> cgnr/ OZ s.rr:¢ Dr [h    rg Al.At                                NOVEMBER 1973
Agric. , I i  ,-mK Project                   KINfIAN CECI4VflE>   9~~. .......                                          I~A
SIMPANG  RENGGAM                                          Eooe   * bob L~~PE
KEdLANTANI OHO              ,,E
IMPANG  RENGGAM ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~or Koa                               KJn\a,
Beh2
Adorrslqlsyysoqoo,        IGAPORE
L7 Ic, -l
MARINE! PRESH SATER DEPDSITS                                                    :        t                          wf<
Cloly ill Br,irJ solies)I\.,fl !,
OLD MARINE DEPOSITS  \\r1E   
Mild   edO sulphulil Selurngs!r srs)                                                            \         J                              
IMosieoer  Acid solpoole Ire,  Steltrz  series)                                            E          t                             \/2                                     .4
RECENT MARINE DEPOSITS 
MildlysOrdinsoilsCKrronji series)                                                                                        _             \                             ,    ,   .
SreIioe soils (Wrathj seriet)                                                                                                                                     r      - 
Ag   Project boundery           P                                    C              CH
-20                      -     EMsising rrads                                                                            <                                                                             w, 0
.__Isternreiionrrl boundary                                                      i201   ,                                                                        / 
SOILEMA
,       0 .    ,         .         . Peels
2               ?  '    C  lay       12 a d      IA M k
REILTOMEAERI DEPOSITS
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10?;0 1320' :i;:L::9':Rgtl>     0'o






IBRD 10691
ToSeg:m F/JToKlvang    '}                    103'2D'                      I* haaMn*SwR loony  lehmno,  <    {              NOVEM8ER I973
AYER HITAM                                                                   z ;t4z't':- "'no". 1  3chr
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D /                                                  \ @t
PERAK IPAANR       Ni
I' SOPAHA SIPN
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'  o'I"'"
SIMPANG     T C>    -                                     NEGt-     RI  I
MALAYSIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ KECILrB-I  L AW 
Western~~~~~~~~_ Joor                                <*, /.>s>>        --@
B  ENGGM S /1     .   ,
BASIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 
'JO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AProposedturaf31Developbanments Projeck>t                                     .-}    /5N4KA'N               r     |
.- -P- rOAtm odaroms\e, tt/y\_  \ lco'il  -- g'
*      Es sting drains tobe improved                                                                                          s7. 
=nPropoed ye din ns 050feeder roads                                     0/: SI1\  \X    7- N/j
.PnoPrposed Pooh novel drains                                               9&\                   1 t,'I (r I
*   Proposed purnpirg otninions                                           8                    / f < >,p                   )c
*   Proposed tidol control structures                                 /s\-H                 ti        
-'00            _____Basin boundcries                                                      KUI t~r L,y/1S  .   ' 'f '                                  '620'
Esistiog ronds                                                                                 "'\                 ('WI ,9>/tSING'>PQC2
rr.rternntirnnnl boLndOry                                             W                g             
B    A   i/
MI E5 S                                                                        E E
°.   ?   g   5   r 0  lp   IA  00ss\wg
Slrallo   Of   MCI C10020                                                         Or3O






IBRD 10692
NOVEMBER 1973
Typical lot
MALAYSIA
Western Johore
Agricultural Development Project
by &=m f ....... \TYPICAL LAYOUT OF INTERNAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM
-Main drains
______Internal drains
-___t__Feeder drains - average 220 yard intervals
…-----On fairm  drains (not a.I shown)
-----Water contral Strautares
-Em bankm ents
-     Main road
Let b..ndarien (vot all shown)
a         1r4       i12      3/M
L,t
Rohh
( SUMAT A)rdC
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ovgi   3ev W






I BRD 10693
AP391ER   HITAM                                   -03!20'                                 brUW/2XI'I.'.,/7QEII"?/5n 6' ¢'   6-\ M 0\<                          NOVEMBER 1973
/                                                                                                                           ERSK1C kEA          3     Ik 'oE.ho
PENA1                           0          Ch-Na
PERAK         TAN, -,TRENGi\
Ieohern Johore  >t_ )             Sea
A A
l~~~~50'                                                                                                                       1.30*                           PA HAN~~~~~~~~~~~~IMAG    ENGA   G I
PR N  LLANE  (
ALACC       JoHR
<90               'xstnro'  1 
104010                                                        103-20'                                                                                                                 V 40wTnD93
Strait   of    Ma/oct a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I' 30'
Western Johore
Agricultural Development ProjeCt
PREENT LAND USE
Visce aneu- crops
oil pale.
Pl,neapple                                                                                                                                                        ,'  
Undeceloone00
Proj sci bo..odory
-120,                                 EIsfiing roOds
Inere-eaional boundory
0         2          4         A          a         1
MILES                              -
0      2     4                         I 0  0 12 4d   16
KILOMETERS                                                                                                          .
103 I0,                                                      103 120'                                                       p30    -I34






0~~~~
0                                                             j    7~~~
I ,'0  ..!i  21tt,!i00
ii                          (AC <0',§ AC                                     '-74'',
0CV  ** >
0   W          u              n_                                     Wy-      X                                 ;'-'9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/1                                             I *        tOi!>grt4E
l           \   }                    |)                  > sSSE!   /ff  r  F__  <  UV~~~~~~q 
N                 o>AS                                                              ?ni\°im g
'_   \                                                              \0                  v             Q        °N
,, n ,  \.s.<  0  <          /                       OD   (^'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z -
Q5      A   S 0$                       -',                                      __°J _ __O__ ___ __ __          _  _



