Report No. PID7120
Project Name                     West Bank And Gaza-Health System (@+) ...
Development Project
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Health
Project                          XOPE53892
Borrower(s)                      The Palestinian Liberation Organization
for the benefit of the Palestinian Authority
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                August 30, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         June 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             November 30, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
While the WBG population enjoys good health status relative to other
countries at comparable levels of income, maintaining the level of health
care in the face of a rapidly growing population, deteriorating economic
conditions, and an uncertain political climate presents a major challenge to
the newly-established Palestinian Authority (PA). Average mortality rates
are low, represented by relatively low infant mortality rates--estimated at
25 per 1,000 live births, compared to an average of 39 in middle-income
economies. However, fertility rates are very high, leading to relatively
high maternal morbidity and maternal mortality rates (estimated at 70 per
100,000 births), and there are wide geographical disparities in health
status, with Gaza and rural regions of West Bank showing substantially worse
health outcomes. Moreover, the rising prevalence of noncommunicable diseases
presents major challenges that will tax the resources and technical capacity
of the existing health system.
Since its establishment in 1994, the PA has, through donor assistance,
embarked on a rapid expansion of the government health systems in order to
compensate for decades of under-investment in the health sector. Today, the
government sector accounts for one-third of total health expenditures, and
70t of total acute care hospital beds in WBG.   By comparison, the
nongovernmental (NGO) providers, largely dependent on donor assistance for
revenues before 1994, have received declining support from this source, and
many are now operating at a deficit. The private, for-profit sector, which
has grown since 1994, plays a minor but increasing role in health services
delivery in WBG, particularly in high-end diagnostic and specialized medical
services.  UNRWA, accounting for 119 of total health expenditures in 1997,
continues to be an important source of primary care services for Palestinians
with refugee status, but they provide only limited hospital services.
Overall, health spending in WBG accounted for nearly 9t of the GDP in 1996--a
very high spending rate for WBG's level of income--which may not be
sustainable under the deteriorating economic conditions. Given the tight
fiscal constraints in the medium-term, the PA is also unlikely to sustain the
present pace of government service expansion. The PA will, therefore, need



to shift its policy to one that emphasizes cost containment and the improved
management of scarce resources, including better cooperation and sharing of
resources with the private/NGO sector.
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the project are to enhance the management
capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and improve access to high-quality
and affordable primary health care (PHC) services, especially in rural and
underserved areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The HSDP will bring to MOH the benefit of the Bank's international experience
and technical expertise in the areas of health facilities planning, health
insurance, health MIS, and quality improvement. The project is also designed
to stimulate collaboration and, where appropriate, promote the integration of
the key MOH management activities that are currently being implemented
independently by different departments in MOH and supported by different
donors.
4. Description
The proposed project is an investment operation financed from the Trust Fund
for Gaza and West Bank (TFGWB) in the amount of US$6.3 million equivalent for
a three-year period, and comprises the following components:
Component 1 will: (i) develop the functional standards for small (Level II)
PHC facilities; (ii) build MOH capacity to plan and design PHC clinics; and
(iii) replace approximately 23 substandard PHC facilities with clinics
(including equipment and furniture) that meet the quality standards. Level
II PHC facilities are small clinics that can serve the basic needs of a
population of about 8,000 to 12,000.
Component 2 will establish a Health Information Center to support the
development and maintenance of MIS functions of MOH, and provide technical
assistance for the development of a basic clinical information system and a
unified health insurance information system. The clinical information system
will also provide the monitoring tool for the QIP team supported in Component
3.
Component 3 will expand the capacity of the QIP to establish quality
standards and introduce quality improvement measures for selected priority
health interventions. Technical assistance will also be provided to promote
rational drug use and strengthen the quality and expenditure control system
on contracts with overseas providers. The QIP will also include the
development of clinical and operational standards for PHC services, which
will be implemented in the selected PHC clinics in order to complement the
physical improvements achieved through Component 1.
Upgrading Primary Health Care Network
Establishing Health Management Information System
Improving Quality and Efficiency of Care
Support to PIU
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Palestinian Authority            0.87
IBRD
-2-



IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING                6.21
Total Project Cost               7.08
6. Implementation
Project Management, Financial Systems and Auditing Arrangements: The project
will be managed and implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
located at MOH. The PIU will seek policy guidance from, and report on a
quarterly basis to, the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC), chaired by the
Minister of Health. The PIU will maintain accounting records, books of
accounts, and an internal control system acceptable to the Bank. An
independent audit of the project will be performed annually and will be
submitted to the Bank within five months from the close of each fiscal year.
Auditors' terms of reference will be submitted to the Bank for clearance
prior to their annual appointment. The auditors' report will cover the
project's financial statements, the reconciliation and use of the Special
Account, a listing of the fixed assets of the project, clear opinions on
these, and a management letter.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E): The PIU will be responsible for monitoring
progress against agreed-upon performance indicators. For this purpose, it
will develop and maintain a project information system which will generate
annual progress reports for the PA and participating donors, including the
Bank. An in-depth Client Access, Utilization, and Satisfaction Survey will
be conducted at the start and end of the project implementaiton period in
order to measure the impact of the project on the quality and efficiency of
the PHC services in the selected clinics. The PIU will also contract
independent technical auditors to undertake a technical review of each
project component. These reports will be consolidated by the PIU and included
in the quarterly Project Management Reports and Annual Progress Reports.
7. Sustainability
The project components have been selected to minimize the incremental
recurrent cost to MOH. It assumes, however, that the MOH budget would be
maintained at least at the current level in real terms. Barring a serious
contraction in the projected revenues of MOH, the incremental costs generated
by the project should be sustainable over the medium-term.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following lessons can be drawn from these earlier projects:
(i)     Before embarking on any new investment in health infrastructure, a
sector-wide investment plan should be developed that takes into account
the availability of all the existing resources (including private and NGO
providers) and a realistic estimation of available recurrent budget.
Therefore, the project will invest only in the replacement of existing
facilities, while developing MOH capacity to improve the design and
quality of primary care services.
(ii)    Although technical capacity at the individual level is high, MOH is a
new institution that is still evolving in terms of its organizational
structure and management systems. Therefore, the introduction of new
management systems and tools should be undertaken incrementally, and at a
pace that permits the institutional structure to absorb and integrate the
new systems before moving to the next step. The project will support the
- 3 -



implementation of relatively basic management systems and tools, while
postponing the introduction of more complex systems to a later phase.
(iii) Lack of coordination with other donor inputs in the past projects has
contributed to the duplication and fragmentation of efforts within MOH.
Hence, special attention was given to ensuring that the activities
included in the project are closely coordinated with, and complementary
to, the inputs from the other donors--most notably the EU, DFID, UNDP and
WHO-- in the sector.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :   The amount of medical waste produced by the PHC
facilities included in this project is expected to be minimal.      However, the
project will include an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) which will
establish routine procedures for ensuring safe practices in regard to waste
management (see Annex 10). The main issues to be addressed in the EMP
include the following: (i) demolition work (for old facilities); (ii) the
selection of construction materials and construction methods; (iii) waste
disposal; and (iv) the handling of medical and non-medical wastes. The
project will focus on waste management within the clinic, but will also
coordinate closely with the Ministry of Environmental Affairs (MOEA) and the
municipalities on the waste disposal from the clinic to the disposal site.
The design of facilities will also encourage the use of energy-saving and
environmentally-friendly materials and design features in construction. This
will contribute to savings on recurrent costs during operation, and reduce
potential environmental hazards from inappropriate choice of building
materials.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Akiko Maeda
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-3793
Fax:   (202) 477-0036
The Infoshop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202) 458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 3, 1999.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



