                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 33572

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                   (TF-22933 TF-23455)

                                         ON A

                                   TRUST FUND CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.9 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                                  WEST BANK AND GAZA

                                         FOR A

                        HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                     October 26, 2005




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective 06/01/1999)

                         Currency Unit = New Israeli Sheqalim (ILS)
                                  ILS 1 = US$ 0.24
                                 US$ 1 = ILS 4.09

                               FISCAL YEAR
                        January 1     to December 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIS      Clinic Information System
DfID     Department for International Development (United Kingdom)
EC       European Community
ESSP     Emergency Services Support Project
GHI      Government Health Insurance
GIS      Geographic Information System
HDD      Health Data Dictionary
HIC      Health Information Center
HIS      Health Insurance System
HMIS     Health Management Information System
HSSP     Health Services Support Project
IMC      Inter-Ministerial Committee on Health Reform
IT       Information Technology
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MCH      Maternal and Child Health
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PCC      Project Coordination Committee
PDO      Project Developmental Objective
PEDL     Palestinian Essential Drug List
PHC      Primary Health Care
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PLO      Palestinian Liberation Organization
QIAC     Quality Advisory Committee
QSA      Quality of Supervision Assessment
QI       Quality Improvement
QIU      Quality Improvement Unit
UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WBG      West Bank and Gaza
WHO      World Health Organization


                       Vice President:      Christiaan J. Poortman
                     Country Director       Nigel Roberts
                      Sector Manager        Akiko Maeda
                   Task Team Leader         Anne Johansen

                                 WEST BANK AND GAZA
                       Health System Development Project (TF023455)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            27
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            28

Project ID: P053892                                                  Project Name: Health System Development Project
                                                                     (TF023455)
Team Leader: Anne Johansen                                           TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 26, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Health System Development Project (TF023455)             L/C/TF Number: TF-22933; TF-23455
   Country/Department: WEST BANK AND GAZA                                                 Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (84%); Central government administration (11%);
                            Non-compulsory health finance (5%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Rural services and infrastructure (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/08/1998                                     Effective: 04/01/2000                04/27/2000
     Appraisal: 06/01/1999                                         MTR: 03/30/2001                  10/03/2002
      Approval: 12/09/1999                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 04/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          THE PLO FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PA/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Director:               Nigel Roberts                                  Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:                 Akiko Maeda                                    Jacques F. Badouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Anne Johansen                                  Akiko Maeda
ICR Primary Author:             Nedim Jaganjac


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Context: While the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) population enjoyed good health status relative to other
countries with comparable levels of income, maintaining the level of health care in the face of a rapidly
growing population, deteriorating economic conditions, rising prevalence of non-communicable diseases,
and an uncertain political climate presented a major challenge to the Palestinian Authority (PA). Since the
Ministry of Health's (MOH) establishment in 1994, the PA had embarked on a rapid expansion of the
MOH system and Government Health Insurance (GHI) coverage in order to compensate for decades of
under-investment and poor coverage in the health sector. This was also supported by a substantial transfer
of donor contributions to the PA, which shifted patient and revenue flows from the NGO sector to the PA.

In the absence of adequate planning and management capacity in the sector, this rapid expansion of the
MOH sector was leading to an uncontrolled cost escalation in the public sector, and poor coordination of
investments and use of services among all the major providers of health care services, including the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and the private
sector. The absence of effective policies and measures to regulate and implement quality and safety of
health care was also leading to a proliferation of unnecessary and often costly and unsafe services in many
facilities in WBG. Salary-based remuneration provided no incentives to improve quality and scope of
services.

This period also saw an expansion of medical referrals, funded by the PA to non-MOH providers, mostly
for specialized services outside the WBG territories. These referrals accounted for 10 percent of MOH's
budget in 1998. Overall, health spending in WBG accounted for nearly 9 percent of the GDP in 1999--a
very high spending rate for the level of income. Given the macroeconomic conditions and fiscal constraints,
these levels of spending were deemed unsustainable.         There was an urgent need to rationalize the
investments, introduce appropriate cost-containment and quality assurance measures, and strengthen
planning and management of scarce resources, including better coordination with private and NGO
providers.

Project Development Objectives (PDOs): The PDOs were to: (i) enhance the management capacity of
the MOH; and (ii) improve access to high-quality and affordable primary health care (PHC) services,
especially in rural and underserved areas.

In retrospect, these objectives were well-chosen, addressing the priority issues facing the health sector,
while balancing implementation capacity with complexity. The PDOs and the project design must be
viewed in the context of an environment of protracted political and economic instability affecting public
services and the welfare of the Palestinian population. Given political uncertainties and the relatively low
implementation capacity of MOH, the aim was to keep the project design and technical components simple,
focusing on establishing basic management tools and capacities and promoting coordination of different
functions within MOH that would support a more comprehensive reform program in the next stage. This
strategy paid off when the second Intifada started six months after Credit effectiveness, posing severe
difficulties and obstacles to project implementation resulting in implementation delays during the first two
years, with two extensions of the project closing date to complete originally envisaged activities. Indeed,
with the Intifada, the second PDO became even more relevant due to the severe restriction of movement
imposed during the second Intifada. An alternative approach--to focus on major internal organizational
changes within the relatively newly established MOH--would have been difficult, if not impossible, to
achieve under the prevailing conditions. Thus, the ICR team believes that the project team made the right



                                                    - 2 -

choices in supporting incremental, but important, steps to increasing managerial capacities of the MOH,
building essential skills, and gradually introducing reforms that would allow MOH to play a more effective
stewardship role in the sector.

From the perspective of the Bank's strategy for the WBG (cf. Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank:
Status Report and Requirements for Additional Funds, June 30, 1999; West Bank and Gaza: Emergency
Reallocation and Proposed Amendments to Trust Fund Credit Agreements, August 6, 2002; and The
Trust Fund for Gaza and the West Bank: Status, Strategy and Request for Replenishment, November 5,
2003), the PDOs were consistent with the Bank's effort to continue to rehabilitate the basic infrastructure,
build institutions, and carry out institutional reform. They were also consistent with the Bank's sectoral
strategy.

Finally, it should be noted that the PDOs are also in agreement with the preliminary findings of an-ongoing
the health sector review, led by the MOH with support from the European Community (EC), the World
Health Organization (WHO), the Italian Cooperation, the UK Department for International Development
(DfID), and the Bank. These findings have resulted in the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Committee
on Health Sector Reform (IMC) to address the key issues facing the Palestinian health sector today,
including health insurance reform, reform of the Specialized Treatment Office (the office responsible for
treatment abroad), and improvement in quality of care.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components:

Component 1: Upgrading Primary Health Care Network (Total Cost: US$ 5.78 million; Bank
contribution: US$ 5.01 million).        This component consisted of:      (i) the development of functional
standards for small (Level II) PHC facilities; (ii) capacity building to improve the capacity of the MOH to
plan and design PHC clinics; and (iii) replacement of approximately 40 substandard PHC facilities,
including equipment and furniture, with clinics that met quality standards.

Component 2 - Establishing Health Management Information System (Total Cost: US$ 1.32 million;
Bank contribution: US$ 1.19 million). This component supported the construction and development of a
Health Information Center (HIC), including equipment and training of staff to provide information
technology (IT) support for MOH. It also supported the development and maintenance of the foundations
of a Health Management Information System (HMIS), including the development of a unified electronic
information system for the Government Health Insurance (GHI) Department and the Specialized Treatment
Office, which is part of the GHI program. Finally, this component supported the development and piloting
of a Clinical Information System (CIS).

Component 3 - Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Care (Cost ­ Total US$ 0.87 million; Bank
contribution: US$ 0.83 million): This component supported the expansion of the scope of the Quality
Improvement (QI) programs, initiated under previous projects, to establish quality standards and introduce
quality improvement measures for selected chronic diseases of high priority in WBG. This component also
financed technical assistance to promote rational drug use and financed the printing and distribution of the
Essential Drug List, developed by MOH with support from donors, mainly WHO. It also aimed to improve
both quality and expenditure controls in terms of contracts with non-MOH providers. In addition, the QI
activities included the development of clinical and operational standards for PHC services to be



                                                     - 3 -

implemented in the selected PHC clinics to complement the physical improvements achieved through
Component 1. Finally, it supported the development of clinical guidelines and laboratory tests.

Component 4 - Project Management Support (Cost ­ Total US$ 0.88 million; Bank contribution: US$
0.83 million). This component supported the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) which
carried out all aspects of routine project management, including the preparation of work programs and
budgets; project financial management and procurement; coordination of technical inputs with the
appropriate MOH departments; and monitoring, evaluation, and regular project reporting. The project
design envisioned that a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) would be established to oversee the
implementation of the project. The PCC would be responsible for the provision of approvals of the project
work program, review of progress reports and would also provide policy guidance and ensure effective
coordination among MOH units and other organizations. The PCC was to include external advisory
members, such as representatives from the NGO community, the Medical Syndicate, and UNWRA, in
order to ensure effective coordination with non-MOH providers.

The four project components corresponded well to the PDOs. Components 1 and 2, with their focus on
improving the PHC network and quality of health care through clinical guidelines, training, and the CIS,
were directly related to achieving the second PDO, while Components 2 and 4 and parts of Component 1
and 3 were essential to the achievement of the first PDO.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated satisfactory, based on (i) consistency of objectives with the priorities for
improving access to basic services and improving overall managerial capacity of the line ministry; (ii)
lessons learned from previous Bank-financed projects were incorporated in the project design; (iii) the
project design, which accounted for political and institutional constraints and risks by incorporating
flexibility and fostering ownership at both the central and community levels; (iv) consistency with both the
Bank's overall assistance strategy and its sector strategy (West Bank and Gaza: Medium Term
Development Strategy and Public Finance Priorities for the Health Sector, 1997); and (v) the extensive
participation of stakeholders, which ensured widespread ownership of the project.

The project design reflected the priorities and conditions of a country in transition, under-going rapid social
change. With the exception of the outbreak of the Intifada, which was unforeseeable, the risks related to
project implementation were well-documented. The project preparation team had an appropriate skills-mix
and invested extensive effort in preparing the project with numerous missions during the preparation phase
(see Annex 4). The only noteworthy area of improvement concerns the project monitoring and evaluation
indicators, which could have been designed to be more useful during implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of the PDOs was satisfactory. Despite difficult implementation circumstances, the project
contributed to the development of managerial capacities within the MOH and improved access to
high-quality primary care services, particularly in rural and under-served areas.

Perhaps the most impressive achievements were made in developing planning and managerial capacities at
the MOH and the development of the health insurance database. The outcome indicators related to the first



                                                     - 4 -

DO, which concerns unification of the GHI, indicate that this task has been achieved.              The target
end-of-project achievement was a "capacity to access beneficiary registry from any WBG GHI office," and
this is now possible both within and across WBG. This ability of the regional offices to access the central
databases has been of great benefit during this current period, much greater than what had been anticipated,
as it has allowed real-time registration and verification of beneficiary status in the regional GHI offices,
which would otherwise have taken days, if not weeks or months, due to the closures and restriction of
movements.

Analysis of administrative data from the CIS led to changes in the delivery schedule of pharmaceuticals in
Gaza to reduce crowding on the first days of the month when the pharmaceuticals arrived. It also
contributed to improving the utilization of clinic resources. Specifically, the cumulative percentage of
prescriptions issued in the health centers by the third day of each month declined by one-third (from 33 to
22 percent) between 2003 and 2004. In addition, the improved ability of MOH to predict the supply of
drugs led to a reduction in the amounts ordered and stored each month.

Other evidence concerning the increased management capacity of MOH is suggested by the evaluation
results of the training courses that were offered during the project (36 courses) and the number of people
trained. Pre- and post-training test evaluations often indicated very large learning gains (e.g., from 19
percent correct responses in pre-testing, to 90 percent correct responses after training).

The second development objective has also been achieved. All replaced facilities meet facility standards. In
addition, utilization rates in the replaced clinics increased by 28 percent by the end of 2004 (the latest data
available) and 46 new services were added (e.g., specialist care, pharmacy), suggesting that both access
and quality of services have improved. This compares to a general reduction in visits to other MOH PHC
clinics during the same time period, in part due to closures. Finally, while improved health outcomes are
typically difficult to quantify, results obtained through the CIS indicate significant improvements in the
quality of care. In particular, diabetes outcomes, which are measured by good metabolic control (i.e., a
Hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) measure of 7.2 percent or less) improved significantly: The percentage of
diabetics with optimal outcome improved from 7 to 45 percent between 2002-2004. In addition, the
recently completed Client Accessibility, Utilization and Satisfaction Survey suggests a significant increase
in patient satisfaction with the quality of care in the project facilities.

4.2 Outputs by components:
1. Upgrading Primary Health Care Network: The achievement of outputs under this component was
satisfactory.

1.1 Upgrading Substandard PHC Clinics in the WBG: The component supported implementation of the
MOH's comprehensive Primary Health Care Rehabilitation Program, prepared jointly by the MOH, WHO,
United Nations Development Program and the EC. Under this component, 35 wheel-chair accessible
clinics (5 in Gaza and 30 in the West Bank) were constructed in rural and/or underserved areas serving a
population of more than 365,000 persons. Average total cost of construction, furniture, and equipment for
the West Bank clinics amounted to US$110,900, while the large clinics in Gaza on average cost
US$314,000 per clinic. Unforeseeable cost overruns in the Gaza clinics resulted in a reduction in the
number of clinics (from 35 to 30) that could be construction the West Bank. Land for these clinics was
public and assigned by local authorities. Responsibility for the construction of these clinics rested with the
PIU, which followed closely the environmental protection guidelines in the Project Environmental
Management Plan. By the end of the project, upon completion of a series of training workshops, the MOH
Department for Construction and Maintenance had taken over the management and maintenance of both the
facilities and their equipment.


                                                       - 5 -

In addition to upgrading the physical environment of the clinics, a number of new services were introduced.
A total of 46 new services were added at minimal cost, distributed across 26 clinics, with the largest
percentage (88 percent) of these clinics adding laboratory services, followed by consultative specialist care
(42 percent), pharmacy (19 percent), and family planning services (15 percent).

1.2 Developing Institutional Capacity: This subcomponent provided training of MOH staff in facilities
standards design and supervision, as well as in environment management and maintenance of clinics. It
also provided technical assistance in health facility planning and management. A total of 36 courses were
organized to improve management capacity of MOH staff.

Although all clinics built under the project were supposed to be Level II clinics (small community health
centers staffed by a full-time nurse and a full- or part-time doctor that serve the basic needs of a population
of about 8,000 to 12,000), the decision on the type and locations of facilities was made by the MOH after a
thorough analysis taking into account a variety of factors such as population density, assessment of
utilization, workload rates, geographic location, availability of other providers etc. Although the cost of
building Level III clinics is higher, this type of facility was found to be a more appropriate solution for
Gaza. Of the 35 clinics built, 31 (89 percent) were Level II clinics. The remaining four were Level III
clinics, which house multiple doctors, including specialists and broader services offered than in Level II
clinics.

To further strengthen the planning capacity of the MOH, the project, together with United States Agency
for International Development (USAID) funding, developed a geographic information system (GIS)
database of all (public, private, NGO, and UNWRA) health facilities in WBG. The GIS contains essential
information that will enable rational planning and expansion of health facility networks in the future.
However, although all data and capacities to develop a master plan for PHC facilities throughout WBG are
in place, the current political situation, including unpredictable restrictions of movement, represents a
serious obstacle for further planning purposes.

2. Establishing a Health Management Information System: The achievement of outputs under this
component was satisfactory.

2.1 Establishing a Health Information Center: This subcomponent supported the construction, equipment,
and furnishing of an HIC building in Nablus as well as the equipment and furnishing of an HIC in Gaza,
and created a unified structure for the HIC, merging a number of MOH departments. The system also
allows access between the West Bank and Gaza offices, but differences in procedure in two entities
continue to present a challenge. Efforts are underway to resolve this issue. Capacity building and
additional technical staff have made the HIC a focal point for coordinating, designing, and implementing all
MIS-related activities for the MOH. The HIC now provides both IT and statistical data analysis functions
used for planning purposes and publishes the annul health status report, which includes essential data on
vital statistics and data for health planning and management. Finally, this subcomponent supported the
installation of video-conferencing facilities between the two HIC sites, which has provided much needed
communication support, not only for implementation of the project IT components but, more importantly,
for all departments in MOH. This facility has contributed to easing the burden imposed by the restriction
of movements and closures.

2.2 Defining a Health Data Dictionary and Data Model:             While the development of a Health Data
Dictionary (HDD) was essential to provide the basis for development of standardized software, it also has a
value that goes beyond the IT development.           In addition to the standardization of data, the HDD


                                                      - 6 -

standardizes medical terminology commonly used in epidemiological analyses, utilization reviews, and
administrative and financial functions by MOH practitioners and decision-makers. Complementing the
development of the HDD has been the development of the medical forms used for different types of
hospitalizations, emergency room visits, as well as outpatient visits, which are an important tool for both
management and clinicians. In this effort, the project collaborated with a large USAID-funded maternal
and child health (MCH) project to use the HDD to develop new MCH records. The Palestinian HDD has
served as a model for several other countries in the region.

2.3 Creating a Health Insurance Information System: This subcomponent supported the development of a
unified electronic health information system (HIS) for the GHI program, which allows real-time access in
both the West Bank and Gaza to the central database from all the regional GHI offices. In addition to
enhanced beneficiary registration, the HIS tracks premium collection, and allows eligibility retrieval with
payer functionality for claims adjudication and reimbursement. As a result, for the first time, the GHI
Department is in a position to accurately track its revenues, contribution payment compliance, as well as
individual insurance status regardless of the source of contributions. Future projects should build on this
system, which provides an excellent foundation for further development of the GHI, to include contracting
with providers, and to monitor both costs and quality of the services provided.

2.4 Building a Clinical Information System (Level 1): This subcomponent supported the development of a
CIS, which was designed to provide managerial, administrative, and clinical data to improve performance
of health providers. The CIS contains a number of modules, including patient registration, appointment
scheduling, pharmacy storage and prescription management, laboratory and X-ray database, as well as a
chronic disease register, and a case management component for diabetic patients. The CIS enables health
care managers to track and analyze over 350 reports and parameters, including utilization patterns,
recurrent and capital expenditures, prescription practices, workloads, and scope of services provided. It
also allows clinicians to follow diabetic patients and their treatment plans and the outcome of the treatment.
A link has been created between the vital statistics database in the Ministry of Interior, which records births
and deaths, and the CIS, therefore reducing fraudulent use of clinic services.

This system represents a solid basis for development of contracting and performance-based payments in the
future. Originally, it was envisaged that this system would be piloted in two locations, but the software is
currently installed in four locations. In two locations in Gaza--Jabalya and El Rimal clinics--the system is
fully operational, while in the other two locations in the West Bank--Ramallah and Nablus clinics--only a
subset of the modules is working for a number of technical reasons related to the software design. These
technical problems are currently being resolved.

The CIS has proved to be a useful managerial and quality tool (see Section 4.1 below) with great potential
for both efficiency and quality of care improvements. However, before the full potential of the CIS can be
achieved, the technical difficulties that became apparent when the software was transferred from Gaza,
where it was developed, to the West Bank need to be resolved. Better IT support, either within the HIC or
contracted externally, will also need to be developed to support the implementation and maintenance of the
system. Finally, the current version of the CIS is intended for large, sophisticated clinics. Further work
needs to be done to adjust software expansion to small facilities and facilities outside the MOH network,
including private, UNRWA, and NGO clinics. Also, the networking of these facilities with the central
database will need to be resolved in the future.

3. Quality and Efficiency of Care: The achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory.

3.1 Institutionalizing the Quality Improvement Process:         Although a quality improvement team was


                                                      - 7 -

established at the beginning of the project, implementation of this component was delayed in part because
the concept of quality was not fully understood within the MOH, and also because the priorities of the
MOH changed during the emergency situation. Although closures prevented the Quality Improvement
Advisory Committee (QIAC) from meeting, the quality improvement team was able to initiate a number of
other activities intended to institutionalize the quality improvement processes. A variety of approaches
were utilized, including the creation of alliances with a number of departments within the MOH, which
subsequently incorporated many of the quality improvement activities into their routine work. In addition,
in a number of hospitals, quality improvement committees were established to serve as focal points for the
quality improvement process. These committees continue the quality improvement initiatives initiated by
the project. Although the project supported the first steps toward acceptance and institutionalization of
quality improvement, the role of the quality improvement team, perhaps within a semi-independent agency
for quality assurance, might gain more importance if other reforms, such as performance-based incentives,
contracting, and accreditation standards, were also implemented.

3.2 Application of Quality Standards and Procedures in Selected Priority Health Areas: Diversity of
clinical education among physicians in the WBG poses a particular challenge for standardization of quality
of health care.     To address this problem, this subcomponent supported the development of clinical
guidelines for nine of the most common chronic conditions treated at the PHC level. The clinical guidelines
were adapted from international guidelines with extensive participation of local experts to ensure
acceptance, as well as applicability of the guidelines. The guidelines were pilot tested in selected facilities
and produced satisfactory results.       Extensive training was also carried out for two (diabetes and
hypertension) of the nine guidelines. Further implementation of these guidelines is being carried out by an
EC-funded Health Services Support Project (HSSP).

The guidelines present the most up-to-date summary of literature review for these conditions. This may
appear a bit unusual, but given the absence of mandatory continuous medical education in WBG and the
diversity of physician training, this approach brings added value to the standard form of therapeutic
protocols. Several countries in the region have already expressed interest in adopting the same approach
and are in the process of reviewing these guidelines for their own use.

The next challenge is to implement these guidelines beyond the pilot sites, in other MOH facilities as well
as in facilities outside the MOH network. Fixed salary-based remuneration of MOH staff in PHC clinics
does not provide an incentive for quality improvements. Although full adherence to the guidelines will not
be possible in the absence of incentive structures and monitoring and enforcement mechanisms, results from
pilot testing indicate that the guidelines have already contributed to an increase in the quality of services
provided. The idea of producing clinical protocols, which are less flexible than therapeutic guidelines, was
abandoned, as there are no enforcement mechanisms in place to ensure full adherence. The development of
guidelines and therapeutic protocols for other common diseases should be considered after the acceptance
of the existing ones is ensured beyond the pilot sites and when the formal mechanism for development and
revision of therapeutic guidelines is in place.

Although full adherence to the guidelines is unlikely in the absence of extensive monitoring and
enforcement mechanisms (or incentives for compliance), results from pilot tests indicate that the guidelines
have already contributed to an increase in the quality of services provided.

3.3 Drug Rationalization: The achievements under this subcomponent illustrate the horizontal integration
of quality improvement into the daily work of different MOH departments.                This subcomponent
complemented a larger EC and WHO Rationalization Drug Program, which included the development of a
Palestinian Essential Drug List (PEDL) and Drug Formulary, as well as standard drug treatment protocols.


                                                     - 8 -

The project supported a number of training activities for the PEDL and financed technical assistance to
review prescription practices and a study of drug utilization, which revealed poor prescription practices and
frequent harmful drug interactions as a result of multiple drug use (poly-pharmacy). In response to these
findings, the MOH Department for Pharmaceuticals and the quality improvement team developed
guidelines for how to reduce potentially dangerous drug interactions. In addition to training on these
guidelines, a mechanism to identify and monitor potentially dangerous drug-drug interactions has been
implemented in several hospitals and clinics. This effort, which went beyond what was originally planned,
would not have been possible without the collaboration of the HMIS team that created the CIS, which was
adapted to enable the identification of drug interaction, going beyond the original CIS design. Finally, as
part of the quality improvement process, a Committee for Quality of Pharmacy was established. This
committee meets regularly in an effort to oversee the entire process of quality assurance for
pharmaceuticals, including drug quality, and prescription practice policy.

3.4 Improving the Quality and Cost-Effectiveness of Treatment Abroad Cases: While this sub-component
was successful in completing the activities planned, it did not fully achieve its intended outcome. In
particular, the hoped-for improvement in reduction of expenditures for treatment abroad through improved
contracting of private/NGO providers did not materialize for myriad reasons beyond the control of the
project. First, the number of beneficiaries of the GHI program expanded dramatically (by 88 percent) from
2000 to 2004, as Intifada victims (and their families) became eligible for GHI without premium payment.
Second, rising dissatisfaction with public health services during the Intifada created an environment in
which it was impossible politically to constrain referrals for treatment abroad. A large turn-over of senior
MOH officials exacerbated this situation. As a result, expenditures for treatment abroad rose from
approximately US$6 million in 2002 to almost US$60 million in 2004. Most of the obligations incurred
have yet to be paid because of the lack of funds. It should be noted that more than half of these
expenditures were incurred by referrals from the Office of the President and thus outside the authority of
the MOH.

While the outcome has been less than hoped for, this subcomponent has succeeded in creating an important
tool (the HMIS), which allows the MOH to monitor, if not control, expenditures. As a result, the large
expenditure increases for treatment abroad came to the attention of the PA Cabinet, which contributed to
the establishment of the above-mentioned IMC, on whose agenda reform of the referral system figures
prominently. The technical assistance financed under this subcomponent also identified a number of
organizational bottlenecks that need to be removed before the problems can be fully resolved. In particular,
the fact that the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which lacks adequate procedures and technical capacity to
verify the invoices and review the services provided, issues payment for the referral services makes it
impossible for the Referral Office to effectively monitor and manage the referral contracts. Given these
complexities, the ICR team believes that this project alone was not in a position to address all these issues.

3.5 Strengthening MOH's Capacity to Monitor and Evaluate the Quality and Efficiency of Health Services:
A number of pre- and post-surveys and analyses were carried out to monitor the impact of selected
activities, namely drug utilization and prescription practices and adherence to, and impact of, application of
therapeutic guidelines. A cost analysis study of the MOH's use of overseas referrals was done in 2003.
This study found that large cost savings (28 percent) would be feasible, if the treatment abroad database
were used to establish selective contracting mechanisms for the high volume services. Several other studies
were planned under this subcomponent, but could not be completed because of the closures resulting from
the Intifada. One survey--the Client Access, Utilization and Satisfaction Survey--indicates an increase in
utilization of newly established clinics under the Project and high satisfaction of users (90 percent of
beneficiaries were satisfied or strongly satisfied with overall clinic performance).



                                                      - 9 -

4. Project Management Support: The achievement of outputs under this component was satisfactory.

At the design stage, a strategic decision was made to have the MOH responsible for project implementation
and to create a PIU independent from the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction, the PA's central procurement and implementation agency, which had been responsible for
the implementation of the Education and Health Rehabilitation Project (TF026065), the first Bank-financed
health project in the WBG. Despite initial difficulties in implementation due to the inexperience and lack of
capacity of the PIU, and significant delays in project activities, other than civil works during the first two
years of the project, the implementation pace picked up in the last years of the project, and the MOH
managed in the end to implement all the components, despite the outbreak of the Intifada.               Weak
procurement capacity within the PIU contributed to procurement and disbursement delays, particularly in
the first two years of the project.

A significant achievement under this component was the transfer of implementation responsibilities and
capacities to the MOH to ensure that project activities were appropriately integrated in regular MOH
operations. This achievement resulted from the dedication of the leadership of MOH's Department for
International Relations and the task team leader, who was placed in the field during the last several years of
project implementation (see Section 5.2).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A full assessment of the economic returns from this project is not possible given the complexities and
nature of the benefits involved, which frequently are not visible for years to come (especially for chronic
diseases). In addition, the outbreak of the Intifada during the project implementation period makes it
difficult to establish an appropriate baseline. There are, however, indications that the investments made
under the project are economically justifiable.

The operating costs for the 35 replacement clinics are lower than for those they replaced, as the original
premises were typically rented and in poor condition, requiring higher maintenance costs and rental
payments.     The new facilities have improved standards for modern, safe, and reliable electrical,
mechanical, and sanitary installations, which will enhance operation and reduce maintenance costs by
approximately 5 to 15 percent annually. Conservative estimates of the maintenance cost and rental savings
indicate that the new clinics would save approximately US$8,000 per year in operating costs in comparison
to the previous clinics. In net present value terms, over 20 years, this corresponds to approximately
US$113,000 in savings (at a 4 percent discount rate).

The GHI beneficiary registry information system will help to reduce the rate of delinquent or unpaid
premiums, which in 1999 were estimated to be as high as US$2.1 million per year in the West Bank alone.
During the project design, it was estimated that the reduction of delinquent or unpaid premiums would be a
conservative 15 percent as a result of improvements in the GHI registration. Successful implementation of
GHI registration achieved under the project has significantly reduced the likelihood of delinquent or unpaid
premiums. The actual increase in revenues could not be measured against the baseline since the GHI
contributions were eliminated during Intifada. However, when the contribution system is fully restored, the
system is now in place to ensure an efficient monitoring and collection system.

Finally, the quality improvement activities, which cost a total of US$100,000 to carry out, are likely to
yield significant economic benefits due to the cost savings alone from the improvements documented for
diabetes patients. In the absence of a full cost-of-illness study, it is impossible to perform a complete
cost-benefit analysis. Evidence from the United States, however, suggests that the savings from improved
HbA1c levels are great, as the cost of treating diabetics in that country is more than twice that of



                                                    - 10 -

non-diabetic patients.     In addition, studies also show that metabolically well-managed diabetics (in
comparison to diabetics with poor metabolic control) have significantly less absence from work, are more
likely to retain their jobs, and have fewer bed days and activity limitation days. Given the absence of data
in the WBG, it is only possible to estimate the potential savings from a reduction in the number of diabetic
dialysis patients (due to improved HbA1c levels) in the WBG, which are estimated to be about US$5,200
per person per year, or in net present value terms (at a 4 percent discount rate), US$51,100 over a 20-year
time period. Consequently, if the project prevents 175 diabetic patients (less than 10 percent of the diabetic
patients registered at the El Rimal) from getting renal failure as a result of the improved diabetic care there,
the net present value of these savings will equal the total cost of the project (US$8.90 million). Given that
the improvements in HbA1c observed in El Rimal clinic are likely to be replicated elsewhere (i.e., in clinics
without the CIS), it is likely that the observed improvements in diabetic outcomes will, in the long run,
prevent many more than 175 diabetic patients from getting renal failure. Thus, the project is likely to be
highly cost-beneficial.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
No fiscal/financial analysis was undertaken for the program.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was modest. As described in Section 4.1, the project successfully
achieved the PDO of enhancing the management capacity of the MOH. While the project successfully
achieved this objective, frequent changes in leadership and at the technical level in many departments of the
MOH precluded full institutionalization of some achievements made under the project. Also, the current
flow of funds arrangements for health insurance presents a challenge for full-scale development of
insurance schemes and the introduction of performance based payments.

The establishment of the HMIS now enables the MOH to accurately track both revenues (from premiums
and co-payments) and expenditures for referrals outside the MOH system. Although the project did not
intend to substantially improve contracting for services outside MOH facilities, a review of the contracting
mechanism revealed an unusually complex set of problems that will need to be addressed to significantly
improve the efficiency of the referral contracting system. This analysis subsequently led the PA to include
the reform of the entire referral system among its urgent priorities for the health sector.

The establishment of the CIS led to a number of efficiency improvements (e.g., fraud reduction, storage
improvements, better patient flow, and improved quality of care). In addition, the HDD, which regulates
data definition needed for future information systems development, resolved differences in medical
statistical terminology and presents a solid base for further development of medical statistical and reporting
systems.

While the quality improvement activities have resulted in a number of achievements, sustainability of these
efforts will, at a minimum, require the establishment of a fully staffed Quality Improvement Unit (QIU)
within MOH. Such a unit has already been established in the West Bank, and the establishment of a
similar unit in Gaza is under discussion. In the West Bank, the QIU is continuing its work with the quality
committees that were established at all the larger health care organizations. The Committee for Quality of
Pharmacy established under the project also continues to meet regularly to oversee the entire process of
quality assurance for pharmaceuticals, including drug quality and prescription practice policy.

In terms of planning capacities, the Department for Maintenance is now responsible both for maintenance
of the existing facilities and, together with other departments of the MOH, for planning and construction of



                                                     - 11 -

new facilities.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The slow implementation at the beginning of the project was due to circumstances that were external to the
project. Following the outbreak of violence in September 2000 (the second Intifada), the Israeli authorities
imposed a set of movement restriction that prohibited traveling both within and between the WBG.
Consequently, a number of activities under the project were delayed and all the activities that required
travel between the two territories ceased for the whole duration of the project. This particularly affected
the Project Coordination Committee, the National Quality of Health Care Committee, and the development
of the clinical guidelines, as well as many of the training activities. Restriction of movements also created
severe coordination problems for the PIU in the development of the CIS. Some of these difficulties were
partially overcome towards the end of the project, but only after the completion of the HIC, which
established videoconference links between the two entities.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
After a period of relative political stability within the PA from 1994 to 2002, the MOH experienced
frequent changes in its leadership with four Ministers and two deputy Ministers of Health between October
2002 and March 2005. In addition to this political turmoil, communication difficulties between the MOH
in Gaza and the West Bank resulted in poor coordination of the project. When the PIU was transferred to
the MOH Department for International Relations (in May 2004) and a project Steering Committee took
over the responsibility for coordination of the different project activities, implementation of the remaining
activities improved markedly, enabling the project to achieve its objectives. The Steering Committee
continues to meet to this day to ensure that the achievements of the project are sustained. Currently, a
proposal to establish a Project Implementation Unit within the MOH with representatives of different MOH
departments is awaiting final approval. This Unit would formally replace the Steering Committee and move
the responsibility for implementation of MOH projects from the Department for International Relations to a
more appropriate location within the MOH.

While the fiscal crisis resulting from the second Intifada was beyond the control of the PA, the rapid
increase in expenditures for treatment abroad that occurred between 2002 and 2004 was the direct result of
unnecessary referrals taken by different government institutions, including the Office of the President and
the MOH.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The PIU did not initially have adequate guidance from the MOH to ensure appropriate coordination among
the project components, which caused considerable problems during the first years of project
implementation. The PIU emphasis on civil works created considerable obstacles for the staff implementing
the other components of the project. This problem was exacerbated by the inability of the PCC to meet
because of closures after the outbreak of the second Intifada. As indicated above, the PCC, which was to
have overall responsibility for overseeing the project, was only convened once during the first six months of
project implementation. In addition, communication between the main PIU office in Gaza and the satellite
offices in the West Bank (in Nablus and Ramallah) presented an ongoing problem, which frequently
required intervention by the Bank task team leader.          The problem was not resolved until project
management was taken over by the Steering Committee during the last year of the project.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The planned overall cost for the project amounted to US$8.85 million, of which the Bank financed US$7.9
million. In the end, total project costs amounted to US$8.9 million, due to increased PIU costs during the



                                                     - 12 -

two extensions. Bank funds were completely disbursed. As noted above, it was necessary to reduce the
number of PHCs constructed under Component 1 as a result of unforeseeable construction cost increases
during the first phase of the project. The cost overruns were in part caused by cost increases for materials
resulting from the closures during the second Intifada. The only significant changes in the allocation of
funds between the components related to a US$230,000 (27 percent) increase in the cost of Component 4
(Project Management Support) due to the 22-month extension of the closing date. The funds for this
reallocation came almost entirely (96 percent) from Components 2 and 3 (US$130,000 and US$90,000,
respectively). A full summary of the project costs and financing is in Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
With the prolonged economic and fiscal crisis facing the PA, the MOH revenues have declined
precipitously and the Ministry has had to rely heavily on donor support to cover non-salary operating costs
(and capital expenditures), which between 2001 and 2003 rose from 31 to 87 percent. This situation raises
concerns about the long-term financial sustainability not only of the MOH, but of the PA in general. In
light of the overall uncertainty related to the fiscal situation of the PA, the rating of project sustainability
has been made without reference to this issue.

The project's achievements are likely to be sustained for a number of reasons. The 35 clinics that were
constructed under the project are all operating and were handed over to the MOH a year before the end of
the project and both staff and maintenance for these clinics have been fully integrated into the operations of
the MOH. Operating costs for these clinics are lower than for those they replaced, as those premises were
typically rented and in poor condition, requiring more maintenance than the replacement clinics (see Section
4.3). Standard designs have been adopted for Level II clinics, which will be applied to the construction of
all future clinics.

The HIC is functioning and regular staff have been recruited and trained. They are thus in a position to
provide the needed technical support to the various components of the HMIS to ensure their continued
operation. The cost of running the HIC is estimated to be about US$100,000 per year, representing less
than 0.1 percent of MOH's total annual expenditures. Only a small percentage of the total operating costs
are in addition to the cost sustained by various departments prior to the establishment of the HIC. The GHI
databases are fully functioning and unification of procedures has been achieved. There is no reason to
expect that this will be changed in the future.

One critical aspect concerns the cost of sustaining the electronic links between the central and regional
offices of the GHI in the West Bank, which has been excessive, but the prices for leased lines have recently
been reduced by more than 50 percent. Furthermore, the Government Computing Center is now in the
process of establishing microwave links in the West Bank, where feasible. Once these links are installed,
the cost of operating and maintaining the microwave links will be negligible. All the links in Gaza are via
microwave technology, saving about US$15,000 to US$20,000 annually in operating costs, thereby posing
no threat to sustainability. The CIS, which monitors performance at the facility level, is fully incorporated
in daily operations of the respective institutions. The maintenance cost of these systems is also negligible.
Scaling up implementation of the CIS should be relatively inexpensive, as the pilot systems cost only
US$20,000 per clinic, including hardware, software, installation, and training. However, this unit cost is
likely to be substantially reduced with larger scale implementation.

Quality improvements have become part of standard business processes in several MOH departments,
posing no additional cost. Furthermore, many of the health facilities have begun to routinely undertake



                                                     - 13 -

quality improvement activities. A QIU has been established in the West Bank, and is in the process of
being established in Gaza. Quality improvement committees have also been established in all major clinics
and hospitals in the West Bank to continue the work initiated by the project. It is noteworthy that these
activities are being carried out not only in PHC clinics but also in hospitals, which were not part of the
quality improvement activities under the project. The MOH has used project results to institutionalize
these activities more broadly. Finally, as noted above, the EC-funded HSSP builds on a number of
activities supported under the project, further contributing to the overall sustainability of achievements.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As discussed above, one year before the final closing date (May 2004), responsibility for implementation of
the project was transferred from the PIU to the MOH to ensure that project activities were appropriately
integrated into regular MOH operations. At the same time, a Steering Committee with membership from
both MOH and MOF was established to oversee the implementation of the remaining activities and the
integration of the project activities into the regular operations of the MOH. The remaining PIU staff
continued to work with the relevant MOH departments to continue to provide further support to the project
activities. The transition to regular operations was done in several ways, including training on preventive
maintenance for the new PHCs, seminars on institutionalization of quality improvement activities, and
review and revision of the reports produced by the HMIS. The meetings of the Steering Committee have
continued beyond the closing date of the project, and the majority of the activities supported by the project
are now part of the regular functions of the MOH departments.

Even in view of expected fiscal constraints over the coming years, the project will have minimal impact on
the recurrent costs of MOH. The PHC clinics require approximately US$900,000 annually to operate.
However, these facilities were already in existence and had operational budgets allocated, so this amount
does not represent incremental costs to the MOH budget.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation, and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The PDOs
were consistent with the Bank's strategy for the WBG (see Section 3.1). Sufficient funds and a generous
PHRD grant were allocated for preparation of this project. The Bank team had an adequate skills mix
during the preparation and appraisal stages (see Annex 4). Special attention was paid to safeguard
policies, and although the project focused on relatively simple primary health care facilities, a
comprehensive environmental protection and waste management action plan was prepared.

At appraisal, risks associated with project implementation were adequately assessed to the extent possible
at the time, keeping the design simple to minimize the risks. However, during the implementation period, it
became evident that the allocations made for some components and procurement packages were inadequate.
The ICR team recognizes that at the time, it was difficult to predict impending problems with referrals
abroad and contracting, difficulties that would occur in implementation of information technology activities
and development of clinical guidelines, all associated with the second Intifada.               To mitigate the
consequences, a reallocation of funds from civil works to these activities was made during the course of
project implementation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) indicators could have been better defined at the
design stage, or adjusted during the implementation, to make them more useful.

The selection of the lending instrument was appropriate given the project design. The operation was
prepared in a collaborative fashion; it drew together the resources from other donors to focus on essential



                                                     - 14 -

interventions in the sector, and had extensive stakeholder input.


7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision performance is rated satisfactory. In November 2004, the Quality of Supervision
Assessment (QSA) rated project supervision satisfactory (2 on a 6-point rating scale). The QSA panel
rated the "focus on development effectiveness", "supervision of fiduciary/safeguard aspects," and the
"adequacy of supervision inputs and processes" as satisfactory. The Panel commended the task team for
identifying and assessing problems with project implementation and for attention to training and capacity
building aspects, which were rated as highly satisfactory. The ratings were based on the task team's
pro-active response to the slow implementation of the project in the face of the very difficult security and
political situation in the WBG.

With the outbreak of violence at the early stage of project implementation, restriction of movements due to
the security situation also prevented formal field-based supervision. The Bank responded very positively to
the external circumstances, placing the task team leader in the West Bank field office and hiring national
staff in both Gaza and the West Bank to work closely with the MOH and the PIU to improve the pace of
implementation.      The project experience confirms that under a complex emergency situation, it is
advantageous to have the task team based in the field. Given the field presence, supervision took the form
of a continual dialogue, with extensive coaching of project implementation staff and institutions, which
considerably facilitated the implementation process. In addition to the support provided directly to the
client, the Bank took a proactive role in harmonizing donor assistance for the sector and enhancing project
effectiveness.    Both the EC-funded HSSP and the USAID-funded HANAN project build on the
achievements of the project.

Some elements of M&E established at the early stage, such as reporting of input and outputs (e.g.,
measurable quality improvement indicators, utilization rates and some quantification of the impact of the
project on health outcomes) required strengthening during project implementation. Although the project
only focused on about 10 percent of public (5 percent of all) PHC centers, it was important, where
possible, to show both qualitatively and quantitatively the achievements. It would, for example, have been
useful to have had some qualitative measurements of prescription practices after the introduction of clinical
guidelines to better understand the clinical outcomes and impact of the project.

In 2003, the Emergency Services Support Project (ESSP, TF050957) attempted to address contracting for
referrals outside the MOH network. Unfortunately, these efforts were not well coordinated between the
health team and the efforts under the ESSP, and therefore present a missed opportunity.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory. All the aspects of the Bank's performance related to
the project are rated satisfactory. The task team has made a solid effort to put this project on the right
track under incredibly difficult external circumstances. National staff in WBG contributed enormously to
the successful supervision of this project. While supervision of the HSDP project was generally sufficient
for project implementation, closer cooperation of activities with the ESSP project could have been
beneficial both to the ESSP and HSDP.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                    - 15 -

The performance of the Borrower during project preparation is rated satisfactory. During preparation the
PA was extensively engaged in the dialogue with the Bank and other stakeholders to ensure relevance of the
project development objectives.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Despite challenges that were posed by the
outbreak of second Intifada, and internal political difficulties the project achieved its objectives.

Frequent changes in the MOH leadership greatly affected project implementation. It should be noted that
intra- and inter-ministerial communication and communication with the non-governmental sector was weak.
Furthermore, the PCC met only once in the period prior to the second Intifada and three times in all. In
April 2004, it was replaced by the Steering Committee established under the MOH, which worked much
more effectively.

The rapid turn-over of ministers, combined with the multiple channels of referrals for treatment abroad,
also seems to have given rise to the rapid growth in expenditures for such referrals which, if they continue
at the current pace rapidly will become a threat to the overall sustainability of the public health sector.
While the cabinet of ministers has initiated efforts to resolve this problem, it is likely to require
comprehensive reform of the entire referral system.

Despite those challenges, ministers and deputy ministers of health took a proactive role in project
implementation, resolving difficult implementation issues, particularly those related to the HMIS, and
issuing ministerial decrees when required.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency­the MOH and its designated PIU­is rated satisfactory.
Given the difficult emergency context, the MOH and the PIU managed the project in an efficient and
proactive fashion, by identifying capacity gaps in procurement and financial management in the line
ministry and addressing them through training which helped to speed up the initially fledgling
implementation. Difficulties in PIU leadership were successfully overcome with proactive involvement of
the minister of health and, in the latter part of the project, the leadership role provided by the Steering
Committee chaired by the Director General for International Relations of the MOH.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Given the difficult conditions under which the project
was implemented and the extraordinary challenges associated with the emergency situation, the overall
effective and speedy implementation, especially during the last two years of implementation, was
remarkable.

8. Lessons Learned

A project implementation imbedded in the MOH, instead of assigned to an independent PIU,
provides for better coordination and increases ownership and likelihood of sustainability. When
designing implementation structures, it is important to ensure that responsibility for implementation of each
sub-component is clearly delineated, and, if a PIU structure is used, that staff from relevant departments of
MOH are assigned to be responsible for each component.




                                                     - 16 -

Successful implementation is feasible even under conflict situations and political turmoil, when the
project design is simple, the borrower committed, and intensive supervision is provided. Project
design has to be kept simple in an unstable political environment, and it has to match the client's
implementation capacity, which is easily compromised under difficult political circumstances. Having the
task team leader located in the field to provide close supervision and problem solving on a continual basis
can be crucial for project implementation under such conditions.

With complex HMIS projects it is essential that the client have capacity to manage the process while
programming and software development should be outsourced to a specialized reputable firm. Prior
to designing and implementing HMIS projects that are to operate in multiple sites, it is necessary to first
invest in building capacity of the client to prepare an analysis of operating procedures in the different sites
as well as to analyze the types of information and reports which the system will be expected to produce.
The work on software development should then be outsourced to ensure appropriate installation training,
troubleshooting, and maintenance of the system.

Clinical guidelines are likely to be more effective if they are complemented by mechanisms to promote
adherence, as well as incentives for compliance. While training is essential, the effect wears off fairly
rapidly. A focus on outcome-related indicators with feedback about performance to the individual provider
is essential to change provider behavior. Performance-based remuneration of providers, quality assurance,
and accreditation requirements are also like to enhance adherence to clinical practice guidelines.

Effective coordination between project implementation entities is essential for successful
implementation. When implementing projects in decentralized settings, like the WBG, where travel is
difficult or impossible, special attention should be paid to the establishment of effective coordination
mechanisms between the different project implementation entities. Transfer of implementation
responsibilities from the PIU to the respective MOH departments requires commitment of all involved
parties as well as on the leadership of the implementing agency.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The MOH has received with great pleasure the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Health
System Development Project (HSDP) I. The MOH expresses its great appreciation to this objective and
respectful report and affirms MOH approval to the content of the report.

The MOH is pleased to support the results of the ICR with the results of a study conducted to measure
"Client Accessibility, Utilization and Satisfaction" in the newly established Primary Health Care centers
under the HSDP I. This survey sampled 17 of the 35 new clinics. Respondents included both clinic
managers and patients, more than three-quarters of whom had been using the clinics prior to their
replacement and thus able to judge improvements.

The results of this study revealed that the project managed to support the PHC services in poor and
marginalized population in rural areas. 67% of the clinics served smaller communities with less than
15,000 population size and 50% of the beneficiaries were under the poverty line (US$350/month).
Similarly, 54% reported living in communities with no other clinics around.                 Correspondingly,
approximately half the respondents indicated that they only used government clinics, while approximately
one quarter also reported using NGO clinics. The number of respondents using private clinics as well as
public clinics was also approximately one quarter. The clinics surveyed reported a 22% increase in clinic



                                                     - 17 -

utilization after the project interventions, as the beneficiaries found the clinic to have better services which
are closer to the local residents than other clinics in the surroundings. This compares to an overall
utilization increase of 28% in all the replaced clinics.

The survey also found that clinic managers reported numerous aspects of the replacement clinics better
than before, in particular, the lab services (100%), the clinic facilities, equipment, and area (93%), waiting
areas and treatment rooms (80%), and the quality of services provided (60%). An additional 67% reported
that the work load was better than before. The results also indicated that 90% of the beneficiaries were
satisfied or strongly satisfied with the overall clinic performance.

In addition, majority of the clinic managers indicated that the project managed to improve the clinic space
including laboratory facilities and services; and provided suitable waiting and treatment rooms.

The Borrower/implementing agency's detailed report can be found in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Percentage of MOH clinics meeting facility,      100% of replaced clinics                     100% of replaced clinics
staffing, equipment, maintenance and
operations standards increased;
Unified Government Health Insurance              Capacity of access beneficiary registry from Achieved (9/02)
registry operational and providing timely and    any WBG GHI office
useful information on beneficiary eligibility,
payment and service utilization patterns.
Improved service quality indicators (utilization Follow-up survey to show improvements in     Overall utilization rates improved by 28% by
rate, waiting time, patient satisfaction, staff  utilization rates, patient satisfaction      the end of 2004. Ninety percent of surveyed
morale, clinical standards) as identified in the                                              clients reported being highly/satisfied with the
Clinic Access and Utilization Survey.                                                         replacement clinics' performance. Clinic
                                                                                              managers reported that the replacement
                                                                                              clinics were better with respect to a)
                                                                                              laboratory services (100%), facilities,
                                                                                              equipment, and areas (93%), waiting and
                                                                                              treatment rooms (80%), the work load (67%),
                                                                                              and quality of services (60%).
Improved health benefits and/or savings          Potential health benefits and savings        Diabetes outcomes are measured by HbA1c.
demonstrated in at least one of the quality      demonstrated                                 HbA1c 7.2% is considered optimal. The % of
improvement programs.                                                                         diabetics with optimal outcome improved
                                                                                              from 7% to 45% between 2002-2004


Output Indicators:
                                                                                       1
                Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
40 substandard Primary Health Care clinics       35 clinics operational                       35 clinics operational
replaced with fully operational clinics that
meet MOH facility standards.
PHC facility managers, planners and              75 staff trained                             91 staff trained
engineers in MOH trained in modern facilities
planning, design and maintenance.
Health Information Center facility established Nablus and Gaza MIS offices fully functional Nablus and Gaza MIS offices fully functional
and equipped.
Health Information Center core staff recruited 9 staff                                        9 staff; 30 staff trained on HMIS
and trained.
Health MIS capacity building programs            Core MIS staff trained in HMIS design and    25 staff trained participated in Capacity
implemented.                                     module development                           Building Programs on HMIS design and
                                                                                              module development; MIS-related textbooks
                                                                                              were purchased
Standard data dictionary and data model          Continuous updating of the data dictionary   Continuous updating of the data dictionary
prepared for Health Insurance registry and       and data model                               and data model. -The second version of the
Level 1 Clinical Information System.                                                          health data dictionary & data model is
                                                                                              conducted
                                                                                              -22 programmers and statisticians were
                                                                                              trained in using the Health data dictionary
Unified GHI registry information system          Unified WB and Gaza insurance information -Telecommunication connections between
established and staff trained in all WBG         systems established                          GHI offices established
Health Insurance Offices.                                                                     -32 staff were trained on using the
                                                                                              computerized GHI system ,
                                                                                              -The necessary ministerial degrees towards
                                                                                              the unification of the system are issued and
                                                                                              in the process of being implemented
                                                                                              -The national operational manual for the GHI
                                                                                              is drafted.
Pilot Clinical Information System (level 1)      CIS-1 operation in at least 2 clinics        CIS fully operational in 2 clinics and partially
operational in 2 MOH clinics.                                                                 operational in 2 additional clinics




                                                                     - 19 -

Quality standards developed and               Dissemination of quality standards       Dissemination of quality standards in
disseminated in two priority clinical areas.                                           diabetes and hypertension completed
PHC operational guidelines prepared and       PHC operational guidelines disseminated  PHC operational guidelines in draft form
tested in selected pilot PHC clinics
Computerized quarterly contract monitoring    Quarterly reporting system in place      Achieved
and reporting system in place in Treatment
Abroad/Medical Referral Offices.
Standard project management indicators        PMR quarterly reporting.                 Achieved
provided on timely basis.

1End of project




                                                                - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Upgrading Primary Health Care (PHC) Facilities             5.78             5.79            100
2. Establishing a Health Management Information System        1.32             1.22             92
3. Improving Quality and Efficiency of Care                   0.87             0.78             90
4. Supporting the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)           0.88             1.11            126

Total Baseline Cost                                           8.85             8.90
                          Total Project Costs                 8.85             8.90
                  Total Financing Required                    8.85             8.90
Notes: Totals may not add up due to rounding.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            4.00          0.22          0.00        4.22
                                   (0.00)           (3.40)      (0.19)          (0.00)      (3.59)
2. Goods                            0.81            0.65          0.36          0.00        1.82
                                   (0.71)           (0.57)      (0.32)          (0.00)      (1.60)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          1.33          0.00        1.33
including design and               (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.33)          (0.00)      (1.33)
supervision
4. Training, workshops              0.00            0.00          0.18          0.00        0.18
and study visits
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.18)          (0.00)      (0.18)
5. Project Management               0.00            0.00          0.64          0.00        0.64
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.64)          (0.00)      (0.64)
6. Operational Support -            0.00            0.00          0.66          0.00        0.66
Incremental Operating              (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.56)          (0.00)      (0.56)
Costs
   Total                            0.81            4.65          3.39          0.00        8.85
                                   (0.71)           (3.97)      (3.22)          (0.00)      (7.90)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            4.49         0.01           0.00       4.50
                                   (0.00)          (3.82)       (0.01)         (0.00)      (3.83)
2. Goods                            0.00            0.84         1.05           0.00       1.89
                                   (0.00)          (0.72)       (0.89)         (0.00)      (1.61)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         0.96           0.00       0.96



                                                 - 21 -

    including design and                   (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.96)           (0.00)            (0.96)
    supervision
    4. Training, workshops                  0.00               0.00              0.34             0.00              0.34
    and study visits
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.34)           (0.00)            (0.34)
    5. Project Management                   0.00               0.00              0.89             0.00              0.89
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.89)           (0.00)            (0.89)
    6. Operational Support -                0.00               0.00              0.32             0.00              0.32
    Incremental Operating                  (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.27)           (0.00)            (0.27)
    Costs
       Total                                0.00               5.33              3.57             0.00              8.90
                                           (0.00)             (4.54)            (3.36)           (0.00)            (7.90)
   Notes: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services of contracted staff of the
       project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.
1. Upgrading Primary            5.01         0.77         0.00        4.98         0.81       0.00       99.4     105.2     0.0
Health Care Network
2. Establishing Health          1.19         0.13         0.00        1.08         0.14       0.00       90.8     107.7     0.0
Management Information
System
3. Improving Quality and        0.85         0.02         0.00        0.76         0.02       0.00       89.4     100.0     0.0
Efficiency of Care
4. Support PIU                  0.85         0.03         0.00        1.08         0.03       0.00      127.1     100.0     0.0

   Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/04/1998                4    Health Specialist (1); Health
                                             Economist (1), Operations
                                             Analyst (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist (1)
              10/20/1998                9    Health Economist (1); Health
                                             Specialist (1); Implementation
                                             Specialist (1); Procurement
                                             Specialist/Engineer (1); NGO
                                             Specialist (1); Health Policy
                                             Specialist (1); Health Finance
                                             Specialist (1); Health Planner/
                                             Architect (1); Health MIS
                                             Specialist (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/13/1999                8    Health Economist (1);
                                             Financial Management
                                             Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Implementation Specialist
                                             (1); Health Policy Specialist
                                             (1); Health Finance
                                             Specialist (1); Health
                                             Planner/ Architect (1);
                                             Health MIS Specialist (1);
                                             Quality and Medical
                                             Standards Specialist (1)
              09/29/1999                5    Health Economist (1); Financial
                                             Management Specialist (1); Sr.
                                             Implementation Specialist (1);
                                             Projects Officer (1); Chief
                                             Counsel (1)

 Supervision

              06/04/2000                6    Sr. Health Economist (1);               S               S
                                             Program Assistant (1); Program
                                             Analyst (1); Health MIS
                                             Specialist (1); Health Systems
                                             Management Specialist (1);
                                             Quality ISpecialistSpeciallist (1)
              09/04/2000                5    Sr. Health Economist (1); Health        S               S
                                             Specialistt Specialit (1); Quality
                                             Improvement Specialist (1);
                                             Health Architect (1); Health MIS
                                             Specialist (1)
              05/28/2001                3    Team Leader (1); Education &            S               S




                                              - 24 -

                                            Health Officer (1); Project
                                            Officer (1)
               01/15/2002              3    Sr. Health Economist (1);             S    S
                                            Program Assistant (1); Program
                                            Analyst (1);
               05/16/2002              4    Sr. Health Economist (1); Health      S    S
                                            Specialistt Specialit (1); Health
                                            Architect (1); Health MIS
                                            Specialist (1)
               04/09/2003              5    Sr. Health Economist (1); Health      S    S
                                            Specialistt Specialit (1); Quality
                                            Improvement Specialist (1);
                                            Health MIS Specialist (1)
                                            Program Analyst (1)
               10/31/2003              3    Sr. Health Economist (1);             S    S
                                            Program Assistant (1); Program
                                            Analyst (1);
               04/14/2004              7    Team Leader/Sr. Health                S    S
                                            Specialist (1); Operations
                                            Analyst (2); HMIS Expert (1);
                                            Quality of Care Expert (1);
                                            Architect (1); Project Officer (1)

 ICR
               07/16/2005             9     Team Leader/Sr. Health                S    S
                                            Specialist (1); Health
                                            Specialist/Consultant (2)
                                            Operations Analyst (1);
                                            Procurement
                                            Specialist/Engineer (1);
                                            Implementation
                                            Specialist/Consultant (1); IT
                                            Specialist (1); Financial
                                            Management Specialist (1);
                                            Program Assistant (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                     US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            N.A.                                204
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    48                               106
  Supervision                              86                               330
  ICR                                       8                                30
  Total                                  142                                670




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Trust Fund Credit Agreements
PMU Quarterly Progress Reports
Quarterly Project Implementation Progress Reports
Project Status Reports (PSRs) / Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs)
Audit Reports and Financial Statements
Mission Aid Memoires and Consultant Mission Reports
ICR Borrower's Report
MOH: HSDP - Reslts of the Main Quality Improvement Interventions




                                                 - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report



                                         Evaluation Report
                          Health System Development Project (TF23455)

Project Development objective:

The Health System Development Project (HSDP) has been designed to fulfill the following
objectives: "To enhance the management capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and improve access
to high-quality and affordable primary health care (PHC) services, especially in rural and underserved
areas."

The project objectives followed not only the Ministry of Health (MOH) National Strategic Plan
1999-2003, which addressed the need to complete the Primary Health Care (PHC) network, but
also the World Bank's strategy for the West Bank and Gaza,1998 which gave priority to human
resources development, poverty alleviation, and the expansion, modernization, and financial
sustainability of the health system.

The Project was developed in 1999 following a period of economic recovery and relative political
stability. Five years after the establishment of the Palestinian Authority the Ministry of Health had
intensified its effort to manage the health sector and improve access to primary health care for the
entire population. The projects' development objectives (PDOs) were realistic in regard to
improving the geographic accessibility to PHC services. On the other hand, the objectives focus
on `high quality' perhaps created higher expectations than the original project components, design
and expected outcomes. It would also have been desirable to have defined the quality dimensions
in the PDO in order to have more standardized, common understanding of the project design
(e.g., affordability and accessibility). The same goes for the some of the other terms used in the
design (e.g., the extent and level of Governmental Health Insurance (GHI) unification) which it
would have been of great help to have defined from the beginning of the process and prior to
implementation.

The project was highly successful in keeping its focus on the developmental objectives during the
difficult years of the Intifada and not to change to an emergency project to cope with the current
need of the political situation of the country at that time.

The project has both input and out put indicators. The output indictors were reviewed during the
process of the project to include outcome indicators.

Project Design

The project design focuses in all its components on a) the unification of operations in Primary
Health Care in the West Bank and Gaza and b) the harmonization of systems; e.g., this is reflected
in the creation of standard designs for Primary Health Care Clinics and the construction of 35 of



                                                 - 29 -

such clinics, the unification of the Governmental Health Insurance translated into a newly
developed management information system for the GHI; the development of an Operations
Manual for Primary Health Care and a Clinic Information System(CIS) for Level IV clinics; and
the development of clinical guidelines for chronic diseases, which would help to standardize
treatment of chronic diseases. Obviously for all those components strong communication among
all the 15 governorates was essential, as was very close cooperation between the Ministry offices
in the West Bank and Gaza, which was considered a pre-condition.

The risk assumptions as detailed in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) did not assume an
outbreak of such a severe political conflict as actually aroused with the start of the Intifada in
September 2000, only a few months after the start of the implementation of the project. As a
result of this conflict, Palestinian cities were put under closures for long periods of time,
preventing the access to other localities and traveling between the Northern and Southern
governorates (West Bank and Gaza) became impossible, and an emergency situation occurred in
all sectors during the years 2000 to 2002. As a result, effective communication became a
challenge and activities often had to be postponed or even re-planned, e.g., construction was
delayed because materials could not reach the construction sites, delivery of medical equipment to
the replaced clinics had to be rescheduled; staff working on all the health management information
system activities could not meet during most of the design period, which resulted in the (CIS)
only being partially functional in two locations in the WB. The implementation period was
extended twice and therefore had a total of five years of effectiveness. Given those difficult
political circumstances, the completion of the project and the fact that most planned outputs and
outcomes were accomplished, we consider the project a major success.

From a post-project perspective, the risk minimization measures were not entirely effective, e.g.,
the project design proposed regular meetings of the Project Coordination Committee (PCC) to
minimize the risk of poor coordination among Project components, and key stakeholders (NGOs,
UNRWA). This was not achieved due to the political situation, which to some extent undermined
the effective use of institutional capacity available for the project. Although the formation of the
PCC was a project prerequisite, it convened only three times during the implementation of the
project.

Prior to implementation the preparation team produced a financial and managerial manual, which
was helpful during the implementation for the management team. Missing though was the
technical part as usually prepared in a project operational manual, which also provides more
details on technical implementation issues as well as operational definitions, and which could have
provided guidance on the implementation

The project design and the minutes of the negotiations clearly define necessary preparatory studies
such as the baseline Client Accessibility, Utilization and Satisfaction Study. The latter was not
conducted due to the outbreak of the Intifada, therefore making the measurement of the project
impact more difficult. Alternatively, the team collected similar indicators from other relevant
studies that helped replace this survey. A Client Accessibility and Utilization Study was conducted
upon project completion funded by other sources (the results are forthcoming).




                                                - 30 -

Although the project has reached significant results under each of its components, the impact
could have even been higher, if the management (Project Implementation Unit-PIU)) would have
encouraged and secured a closer coordination in the implementation phase of the four major
components, the relationship between these components, and how they would impact each other,
which was not clearly understood from the existing documents. As a result, the components
functioned more independently of each other than would have been desirable.

A comprehensive integrated, logical action plan that pulls together all the components was not
prepared. This caused disharmony among the different activities under each component in a way
that sometimes affected the outcomes of these activities.

The financial design of the project was satisfactory and achieved its results as defined in the PAD.
For the project budget design, the budget allocated for some activities was not realistic, with the
cost of some being over-estimated while others were underestimated.

Project Implementation

Despite the challenges faced during the Project Implementation Phase, all components
(Construction, Management Information Systems (MIS) and Enhancing Quality and Efficiency of
care) were successfully completed and achieved promising results.

The first component was the construction of Primary Health Care Clinics. Thirty-five of the 40
planned (87.5%) were constructed and equipped; all have been functioning since 2002. In many
localities new services were introduced for the beneficiaries mainly laboratory services and in
some clinics Family Planning, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Pharmacy and Specialty Services.
About 335,292 inhabitants benefited from the new facilities and the different services offered in
them in both WBG.

The different computerized systems (CIS, GHI, and Treatment Abroad Office (TAO)) developed
under the project proved to be excellent and feasible tools for monitoring and producing the
necessary reports that support decision taking and planning. The CIS systems include six modules
(finance, index, laboratory, chronic disease, diabetes, pharmacy and appointment system). These
important modules helped monitoring the different interventions introduced by the QIT to the
system at the pilot clinics. Remal clinic (pilot site) was suffering from crowding in the first three
days of every month (the days where medication are received from the medical stores and
dispensed) and patients were complaining of drug unavailability.

Due to QI efforts and the CIS as a monitoring tool, the results of two years of analysis of the CIS
data base (2003 & 2004) revealed that, there was a remarkable drop in the average number of
patients attending the clinic in the first day of the month from about 11,000 in 2003 to 8,000 out
patient visit in 2004. This was accompanied by a drop in drug dispensing from 12% to 8% in the
first day of the month. The results on anti-diabetic drugs demonstrate a tremendous shift in the
patterns of dispensing from being dispensed in the first three days of the month in 2003 to its
continuous availability all over the month in 2004.




                                                 - 31 -

The TAO report produced in 2004 (based on the analysis of the TAO data base) and the different
reports retrieved from the computerized system of the GHI for the first time provide all necessary
data that could help MOH policy makers to make evidence-based decisions. The data provided
strong evidence to the MOH leaders on the desperate need to start a reform for both systems.

Nine National Clinical Practice Guidelines covering priority chronic non-communicable diseases in
the Palestinian community were developed following sound evidence-based methodology. These
guidelines were highly appreciated on national level as well as regionally (copies have been
distributed to all representatives in the Arab Health Ministers' summit in 2004 held in Cairo).
Moreover, the Health Data Dictionary is under adaptation to fit the needs of the Health
Management Information System in the Republic of Iran.

As a result of the implementation of the diabetes guideline, there are promising indications that
chronic disease care can be shifted to general practitioners at the level of the Primary Health Care.
In 2004, 74.2% of the diabetic cases were diagnosed and followed up by the general practitioners
compared to 53.2% in the year 2003. The referral to specialists dropped from about 25.8% in
2003 to 13.8% in 2004. In addition, the results of the HbA1c indicate improved diabetes control.

In regard to prescription errors and patient safety, the project introduced an innovative idea to
study the frequency of drug interactions. The results raised the flag to such an important and
crucial issue; consequently the team decided to develop a drug interactions manual. It was
completed under the project and disseminated for both physicians and pharmacists at both PHC
and hospitals. The positive impact of the manual encouraged the Pharmacy Quality Improvement
Committee to start developing other chapters in the manual (antibiotic and food­drug
interaction). Furthermore, the clinical pharmacy services were expanded at the level of secondary
care.

In regard to the sustainability of the results achieved under the project, there are promising
initiatives that need further empowerment. The Quality Improvement Unit at the West bank was
established to take the responsibility of follow up the different activities conducted under the
project. The National Non-Communicable Disease Committee started its work recently. One of its
main objectives is the implementation of the clinical practice guidelines developed under the
project. In addition; the Pharmacy Quality Improvement Committee is taking care of following up
the different issues of pharmaceuticals and drug dispensing.

Although results show a successful completion of the project, it should be acknowledged that the
implementation was challenging given the unstable political situation and the recurrent closures of
cities and borders. This political situation created a communication barrier (psychological and
geographical) not only at the level of project staff, but also at the level of MOH and the
Palestinian Authority (PA) in general.

Despite the use of modern telecommunication technology (e.g., audio and videoconferencing),
which replaced actual team and coordination meetings; cooperation between the Northern and
Southern governorates on all project levels remained a challenge throughout the implementation
period, e.g., for meetings of the PIU team; for the joint production of technical documents



                                               - 32 -

(chronic diseases guidelines; PHC operations manual, data dictionary, etc.); for necessary training
activities such as training on the MIS and the clinic practice guidelines. This resulted in resistance
to change due to insufficient involvement of the WB health professionals in the projects activities.
This challenge was much more obvious in the implementation of the soft components of the
project.

The Quality Improvement Team (QIT) managed this challenge in the process of clinical practice
guideline development by dedicating additional effort into the involvement of medical
professionals from both WBG in the review workshops of the guidelines, measuring indicators,
and in the training. The development of two guidelines (Peptic Ulcer Diseases and Rheumatoid
Arthritis) was delegated to the West Bank team, who successfully completed one of them (Peptic
Ulcer disease) prior to the end of the project. The QIT used all possible communication channels
to provide technical assistance to the guideline development teams and succeeded that way to
develop one more clinical guideline than originally planned.

Project implementation was also influenced by the recurring ministerial changes which delayed
policy enforcement regarding major issues, such as the unification of the health insurance system;
clinical guidelines enforcement etc., all of those necessary to fulfill the outcomes of the project.

As the project manager was an engineer, he succeeded in managing the construction part of the
project but he was not able to appreciate the soft parts (Quality Improvement and Health
Management Information System) and how it can be integrated into the hard part of the project
(PHC construction). To over come this challenge the MOH restructured the management of the
project in the last year of Credit effectiveness. The HSDP Steering Committee (created with staff
from the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Finance) took the lead in the project management
instead of the project manager, giving more responsibility to the technical experts. This change
greatly accelerated project implementation, especially with respect to the soft component (as the
hard component of the project was already finalized) due to facilitation given to the project team.
The redesign of the project management structure also led to a move of the Project
Implementation Unit to the MOH premises, which greatly improved communication and
coordination with, as well as enhanced capacity building for MOH staff.

The Project monitoring and evaluation system was inadequately integrated into the project
management, resulting in some key activities not being integrated into project implementation
until late in the project. Therefore, during the last year of the Credit effectiveness, the local staff
worked under extreme pressure with dedicated and sincere effort to compensate for the missed
items.

The implementation of the financial management aspects of the project went smoothly. Three
budget reallocations were requested and approved by the Bank to fulfill the emerging needs of the
project arising from the changes in implementation due to the political situation during the five
years of credit effectiveness

The project supported the enhancement of MOH's capacity in all project components. More than
400 MOH employees participated in the development, training, and monitoring the



                                                 - 33 -

implementation of the clinical practice guidelines. There was a significant knowledge transferred
as a result of the training on the Palestinian guideline for diagnosis and management of
hypertension from 70 % pre-training to 84% post-training. Moreover, more than 150 MOH
professionals were trained in MIS issues (e.g., software engineering, web development, etc.).
These training sessions created capacity building to the MOH to manage the newly established
Health Management Information System and Centers.

Borrower Performance

Preparation
The borrower displayed a high level of commitment to the objective of the project, and together
with the local experts and team ensured the highest quality of all major aspects, such as technical,
financial, and managerial, and including stakeholder commitment. The government officials and
the MOH staff (the implementing body) worked hand in hand with the Bank project staff on a
continual basis.

Government implementation performance
The government consistently maintained its commitment through out the process of
implementation. The PA through its different organizations (Ministry of Local Government, the
governorates and the municipalities) were committed to allocate all necessary land for the new
Primary Health Care Network in WBG as well as for the Health Information Center in Nablus
(West Bank). The government took the necessary corrective measures to maximize project
progress regarding the Project management and the PIU. Appropriate level of review and
approval were usually in place including financial accountability, follow up, and expenditures were
duly authorized before they were incurred.

Implementing agency
Despite the recurrent ministerial changes during the five years Credit effectiveness, the MOH
displayed the highest level of commitment. MOH worked hard to deal with procurement,
disbursement, and progress reports. Bank recommendations were highly appreciated and usually
taken into consideration.

MOH succeeded to operate and manage the World Bank credit by itself (The EHRP was managed
by the MOH through the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction).
The special account for HSDP and the financial reports, e.g., Project Management Reports
(PMRs) were done according to Bank standards. All financial audits (either external from the
Bank side or the local independent external audit) were in favor of the financial statement
prepared by the project.

The HSDP Steering Committee was able to address complex implementation tasks in the project
during the last year. Data on project management, financial status, procurement, disbursement,
and technical were made available to the Bank as appropriate and on a timely basis.

Bank Performance
The team spirit with which both the Bank and the MOH staff worked during all phases of project



                                               - 34 -

cycle was highly appreciated. The productive coordination between the Band staff in the country
and the financial division of the World Bank in Washington facilitated the financial processes
under the project (free access to the financial data base in Washington was given to facilitation
monitoring of disbursements).

Lending
The project was consistent with, and fully integrated into, the PA development priority and the
Bank's assistance strategy for the WBG. The project design took into consideration the lessons
learned from other Bank projects in the PA, in particular the EHRP project. The lending
instrument (specific Investment Loan) was in harmony with project components as it supported
the infrastructure component, the capacity building and institutional development of the MOH.

The Bank has had a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during the
appraisal and preparation of the project. The extensive stakeholder consultation was highly
productive and created ownership of the project which proved valuable during the
implementation.

Supervision
In general, the Bank's supervision over the project was satisfactory. It opened free, productive
discussions around issues that arose during the supervision missions either from the Bank Task
Team Leader (TTL) or the technical consultants for the different components of the project.

During the early stages of the implementation of the project, the Bank's supervision missions
were irregular due to security reasons. However, this period required very extensive support and
supervision to assure effective launching of the different activities and to identify preventable
challenges at earlier stages of the project. During the worst times of the Intifada, the physical
unavailability of the supervisory missions was compensated by audio and video conferences.

When the TTL became resident in the occupied Palestinian territories (oPt), this facilitated close
supervision of the project activities and gave the local staff a great opportunity to enrich their
experience in project management and even the technical work.               Due to the continuous
supervision of the Bank, the MOH gained valuable experience in managing Bank projects.

Lessons Learned

·       Risk assumption and the related measures are expected to reflect the real results of the
internal and external environment and the field force analysis regarding the project.
·       Project design would be more effective if all concerned parties were involved in the
project design phase, particularly, the executive level and those responsible for implementation.
·       It would be desirable to ensure that pre-measurement studies be carried out prior to
project implementation
·       It would greatly improve project implementation if a project operation manual is prepared
prior to project implementation.
·       Project implementation would have greatly benefited if a comprehensive integrated action
plan for the first year had been developed prior to project effectiveness. Such an action plan



                                                - 35 -

should include not only the different activities but define responsibility, physical and human
resources etc., streamlined with a financial and procurement action plan.
·       Project management would benefit from more clearly and better defined monitoring and
evaluation indicators which could serve as a tracking and guidance tool during project
implementation.
·       Although the existence of the Project steering committee facilitated the progress of the
project, there is a need to have a project manager (in addition to project steering committee) who
will be responsible for day to day management of the project.
·       Procurement would have been more efficient if the national shopping threshold could have
been reviewed and increased during project implementation.
·       It would be of great benefit to incorporate two more components into future projects: a
reward (paying for performance) system and social marketing system . These two support
components are crucial to introduce the necessary behavioral changes to assure compliance with
the new interventions supported by project activities and achieving sustainable improvement.
·       It would be highly desirable to include local technical consultants in the project
preparation phase. This is expected to assure local capacity building in project design and
preparation, better understanding of the design and therefore efficient implementation of its
components.
·       The project would have benefited more if highly competent professional(s) were at the
project management level from the early beginnings of the project. Project Organogram that takes
into consideration the geographic separation between Gaza and the West Bank and the integration
of the MOH staff in will be highly recognizable.




                                                 - 36 -

- 37 -

