Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19321-GZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.9 MILLION
TO
WEST BANK AND GAZA
FORA
HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
November 8, 1999
Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 27, 1999)
Currency Unit = NIS
NIS= US$ 0.23
US$ 1 = NIS 4.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAUS               Client Access, Utilization, and Satisfaction Survey
CIS-I              Clinic Information System - Level I
DFID               Department for International Development
EHRP               Education & Health Rehabilitation Project
GFMIS              Government Financial Management Information System
GHI                Government Health Insurance
HIC                Health Information Center
HMSU               Health Management Service Unit
HSDP               Health System Development Project
MIS                Management Information System
MOEA               Ministry of Environmental Affairs
MOF                Ministry of Finance
MOH                Ministry of Health
MOPIC              Ministry of Planning and Intemational Cooperation
MOSA               Ministry of Social Affairs
NGO                Non-governmental Organization
NIS                New Israeli Shekel
PA                 Palestinian Authority
PCBS               Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
PECDAR             Palestinian Economic Council for Development and Reconstruction
PHC                Primary Health Care
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PMR                Project Management Report
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
QIAC               Quality Improvement Advisory Committee
QIP                Quality Improvement Project
TATF               Technical Assistance Trust Fund
TAO                Treatment Abroad /Medical Referral Office
TFGWB              Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
UNDP               United Nations Development Programme
UNRWA              United Nations Relief and Works Agency
WHO                World Health Organization
Vice President:    (ernal Dervis
Country Director:    Joseph P. Saba
Sector Director:   Jracques F. Baudouy
Task Team Leader:    Akiko Maeda



WEST BANK AND GAZA
HEALTH SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      6
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       7
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          8
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                            9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    9
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         9
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                                           10
2. Financial                                                                          11
3. Technical                                                                          11
4. Institutional                                                                      12
5. Social                                                                             12
6. Environmental assessment                                                           13
7. Participatory approach                                                             13
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    14
2. Critical risks                                                                     14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     15



G. Main Credit conditions
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                         lS
2. Other                                                                             15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        16
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         17
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       26
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         28
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             32
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     33
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   48
Annex 8: Documents in Project File                                                     49
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                51
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          53
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan: Summary                                       55
MAP(S)



WEST BANK AND GAZA
Health System Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: November 8, 1999                            Team Leader: Akiko Maeda
Country Manager/Director: Joseph P. Saba          Sector Manager/Director: Jacques F. Baudouy
Project ID: P053892                               Sector(s): HB - Basic Health, HY - Other Population,
Health & Nutrition
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): HEALTH/NUTRITION/POPULATION
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
El Loan        X Credit        El Grant        Li Guarantee    Z Other (Specify)
Trust Fund Credit out of the Trust Fund for Gaza and West Bank
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m) 7.9
Proposed Terms: El To be defined  El Multicurrency Z Single currency
El Standard Variable L Fixed        Ei LIBOR-based
Grace period (years):            10
Years to maturity:               40
Commitment fee:                  0.5
Service charge                   0.75%
fFinancing Plan: C1 To be defimed
Source                              Local         Foreign         Total
Government                                                      0.95           0.00          0.95
IBRD
IDA
SPECIAL FINANCING                                              4.20            3.70          7.90
Total:                                                          5.15           3.70          8.85
Borrower: THE PLO FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PA
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency:
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY          2000         2001        2002        2003
Annual 1_.]4             2.0          3.6        0.9
Cumulative     1.4          3.4          7.0         7.9
Project implementation period: 2000-2003
Expected effectiveness date: 01/31/2000  Expected closing date:  06/30/2003
CGS PAtD F-m  0obn, 9,19s9



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the project are to enhiance the managernent capacity of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and improve access to high-quality and affordable primary health care (PHC) services,
especially in rural and underserved areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators are described in Annex 1, column 2.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-96                         Date of latest CAS discussion: 04123/98
The Bank's strategy for West Bank and Gaza (WBG) gives high priority to human resource dev;elopment
and poverty alleviation, which would include the expansion, modernization, and financial sustainability of
the health system. The sector-specific issues and strategies have been analyzed in detail in the joint
MOH/WHO/World Bank Study entitled West Bank and Gaza: Medium-term Strategy for th-, Health
Sector, 1998; and the main sector issues, strategies, and donor activities are summarized in th- Health
Sector Comprehensive Development Framework Matrix (see Project Implementation Plan file).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
While the WBG population enjoys good health status relative to other countries with comparable Ievels of
income (1997 GNP per capita = US$1,597), maintaining the level of health care in the face of a
rapidly-growing population, deteriorating economic conditions, and an uncertain political climrate p:esents a
major challenge to the newly-established Palestinian Authority (PA). Average mortality rates are low,
represented by relatively low infant mortality rates--estimated at 25 per 1,000 live births, comparod to an
average of 39 in middle-income economies. However, fertility rates are very high, leading to relativ.-lv high
maternal morbidity and maternal mortality rates (the latter is estimated at 70 per 100,000 birt is). in
addition, there are wide geographical disparities in health status, with Gaza and rural regions of West Bank
showing substantially worse health outcomes than the rest of WBG. Furthernore, the rising prevai erLce of
noncommunicable diseases presents major challenges that will tax the resources and technical capac:ity of
the existing health system.
Since its establishment in 1994, the PA has, through donor assistance, embarked on a rapicl expar sion of
the government health system in order to compensate for decades of under-investment in the health sector.
Today, the govermnent sector accounts for one-third of total health expenditures, and 70% of all acu.te care
hospital beds in WBG. By comparison, the non-governmental (NGO) providers, largely depende:it upon
donor assistance for revenues before 1994, have received declining support from this source, and many are
now operating at a deficit. The private, for-profit sector, which has grown since 1994, plays a miiior but
increasing role in health services delivery in WBG, particularly in high-end diagnostic and spe:.ialized
medical services. UNRWA, accounting for 11% of total health expenditures in 1997, continues te be an
important source of primary care services for Palestinians with refugee status, but they provide only Lirmited
hospital services.
Overall, health spending in WBG accounted for nearly 9% of the GDP in 1996--a very high spendintg rate
for WBG's level of income. However, this level of spending may not be sustainable under the! deteri imating
economic conditions. Given the tight fiscal constraints in the medium-term, the PA is also unliLely to
-2 -



sustain the present pace of government service expansion. The PA will, therefore, need to shift its policy to
one that emphasizes cost containment and the improved management of scarce resources, including better
cooperation and sharing of resources with the private/NGO sector. The priority issues facing PA are
outlined below:
*  Rationalizing investments in health infrastructure.  Capacity to plan and allocate resources
efficiently has not kept pace with the growth in the number of facilities and volume of services provided
by MOH. The proposed expansion of MOH facilities under the current Five-Year Health Plan will
need to be curtailed significantly if the facilities are to be operated within the budgetary constraints of
the PA (see Recurrent Expenditure Study for the Five-Year Health Plan, Waters and Hamdan, 1999 in
PIP). The urgent issue facing the PA is to determine, in coordination with the NGO/private sector and
UNRWA, which investments are absolutely essential and fit within a realistic fiscal envelope.
*  Expanding health insurance coverage and ensuring access to the poor. The PA has adopted as one
of its sector goals the achievement of universal health insurance through gradual expansion of the
Government Health Insurance (GHI) program. In 1998, the GHI enrollment rate had reached over
50% of WBG's population, and GHI contributions covered more than half of all MOH expenditures;
however, it is unlikely that the PA can sustain further expansion, or even maintain the present level of
coverage, unless fundamental reforms are introduced. They include: (i) an increase in contribution
rates based on a much less regressive revenue structure; (ii) improved targeting of and outreach to
social cases, especially the most poor and vulnerable; (iii) stronger expenditure controls in order to
reduce the number of unnecessary hospitalizations, drug prescriptions, and overseas referrals; and (iv)
imnproved quality of and access to a larger number of providers in order to encourage broader
participation in the program. These reforms call for a significant upgrading of the health insurance
management capacity within MOH.
*  Improving service quality and containing costs. The absence of coherent policies or measures that
regulate the quality and safety of health care is leading to a proliferation of unnecessary treatments and
unsafe health practices in many facilities in WBG. Hospital infections, unsafe exposure to X-rays,
overprescription of drugs, and the inappropriate diagnosis and treatment of diabetes patients are
examples of urgent quality problems identified by MOH. Overseas medical referrals (to health care
providers in Jordan, Egypt, and Israel), to which all GHI beneficiaries are entitled, accounted for over
10% of MOH expenditures in 1998, and have been identified by MOH as another priority target for
cost containment.
*  Achieving an effective public/private mix. The Bank-financed Private Sector Assessment Study on
the WBG health sector has identified a number of areas where improved collaboration between the
public and private sectors could lead to significant improvements in the efficiency and quality of health
care (the study was funded by the Banks Innovations Marketplace Project, "Harnessing Private Sector
to Achieve Health Goals," 1999: see PIP for details). The following areas for public/private
collaboration have been identified: (i) coordination of investment plans to ensure that MOH and NGO
facilities complement, rather than duplicate, the activities of the other; (ii) development of technical and
institutional capacity to reach consensus on and subsequently enforce common quality standards and
regulations among both public and private health care providers; and (iii) expansion of contractual
arrangements between MOH's GHI and private/NGO providers within WBG. The MOH already
contracts a number of NGO/private providers to cover services not available in MOH facilities;
however, MOH will urgently need to upgrade its contract management capacity if it is to contain costs
and assure minimum standards of care.
-3 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Health System Development Project (HSDP) will support MOH's short-term strategies, which are to:
(i) mininize the expansion of new MOH facilities, with preference given to upgrading the quality of
existing health services in the neediest communities; (ii) strengthen MOH resource management capacity by
upgrading and modernizing its financial accounting and health insurance systems; and (iii) improve the
quality and efficiency of selected health interventions that have been identified by MOH as major ources
of cost escalation, or which pose serious health risks to patients.
Strategic choices for the HSDP have been made on the 'basis that they: (i) meet urgent investment re eds in
terms of reaching the underserved population, but have li[ttle or no incremental cost implication for MOH;
(ii) concentrate on establishing the basic modem management systems and tools that are essential for AIOH
in undertaking more comprehensive reforms, such as health insurance reform, at a later stage; (iii) fccus on
tasks that complement assistance from other donors, as well as on ones in which the Bank has a
comparative advantage in terms of knowledge and experience. The HSDP will support several key
functions of MOH, rather than focus on a single function. in order to promote the integration of thes - tasks
into MOH's organizational structure. The project scope has been kept modest due to the fiscal conitraints
facing MOH, but it is also expected that this project will lead to a more comprehensive health :,ystem
development project in the next phase.
Upgrading Primary Health Care Clinics. Through the ongoing Education & Health Rehabilitation
Project (EHRP), the Bank has supported the construction of new MOH clinics and hospitals. Under
HSDP, the emphasis will shift to the rehabilitation of existing PHC clinics in underserved commu. nities.
Although essential, the rehabilitation and rationalization of hospitals would require time for preparing
master plans and feasibility studies; therefore, they will be considered for future Bank financing.
Meanwhile, the MOH (with UNDP and WHO support) has undertaken a detailed survey of all MOE PHC
facilities, and has identified over 65 sub-standard PHC facilities that need to be replaced, as well -.s 127
that are in need of rehabilitation (see Rehabilitation and Rationalization of Primary Health Care in the WVest
Bank, MOH/WHO/EU Project Proposal, 1999, PIP). I'he HSDP, UNDP, and EU will jointly finance,
under separate projects, the replacement and rehabilitation of the sub-standard MOH PHC clinics, vith
HSDP taking the lead in the development of facility standards and norms, an environmental mana=en-ent
plan, and capacity building in facility design.. To avoid duplication of services, the selection of MOHl PHC
facilities sites will be coordinated with the Palestinian NGO Project, financed by the Trust Fumd foi Gaza
and West Bank (TFGWB), which includes financial support for NGO clinics, and the Cormuanity
Development Project, which also finances clinics through local conmnunities.
Basic Management System for Health Insurance and Clinical Management. Through EHRP and the
Technical Assistance Trust Fund (TATF), the Bank has supported a number of MOH initiatives in p 'oting
management systems, including an integrated insurance registration system and a hospital appoint nents
and referral system, and has also undertaken a Communications Feasibility Study. Basic health clinical
information and drug inventory systems have also been initiated through other donors, including the H-ealth
Management Services Unit (Italy/UNICEF). The HSDFP will build upon these experiences, in or,:er to
establish an integrated managemnent information system (N41S) for MOH, starting with the upgrading of
health insurance and basic PHC clinic information systenns. This component of HSDP will particuflarly
complement the Department for International Development-fnanced (DFID) Health System Managi(rrent
Project, which provides technical assistance and training in key management functions, including fin:,ncial
management, inventory, and medical records. The MIS is an essential management tool for implementing
quality improvement programs, enforcing expenditure controls, and monitoring contracts (see below).
Improving Quality and Efficiency of Health Services. lJnder EHRP, the MOH established the Q.tlaty
Improvement Project (QIP), through which MOH has achieved some demonstrable success in qulality
- 4-



improvements and cost savings, although these have been on small-scale, pilot programs. The HSDP will
support the expansion and institutionalization of the QIP within MOH as a means of establishing consensus
and developing the basic tools and methods for prioritizing quality imnprovement strategies and standards
across multiple providers (MOH, private/NGO, and UNRWA). The quality standards and management
tools developed through the QIP will establish foundations for the fiture development of a system of
accreditation and quality regulation in both the public and private sectors. These quality standards, linked
to the Health MIS, will establish a basis for quality and expenditure controls, both within MOH as well as
for services contracted through external providers. The HSDP will also support the upgrading of the
information and reporting system of the Treatment Abroad/Medical Referral Office (TAO), and develop its
capacity to negotiate and monitor the quality and cost of services provided through contracts with
private/NGO providers both within and outside WBG.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project is an investment operation financed from the TFGWB in the amount of US$7.9
million equivalent for a three-year period, and comprises the following components:
Component 1 will: (i) develop the functional standards for small (Level II) PHC facilities; (ii) build
MOH's capacity to plan and design PHC clinics; and (iii) replace approximately 40 substandard PHC
facilities, including equipment and furniture, with clinics that meet the quality standards. Level II PHC
facilities are small clinics that can serve the basic needs of a population of about 8,000 to 12,000.
Component 2 will establish a Health Information Center (-TC) that would support the development and
maintenance of the MIS functions of MOH, and provide technical assistance for the development of a basic
clinical information system and a unified health insurance information system. The clinical information
system will also provide the monitoring tool for the Quality Improvement (QI) activities supported in
Component 3.
Component 3 will expand the scope of the QIPs in order to establish quality standards and introduce
quality improvement measures for selected priority health interventions. Technical assistance will also be
provided that would promote rational drug use and improve both quality and expenditure controls in terms
of contracts with overseas providers. The QIP will also include the development of clinical and operational
standards for PHC services, which will be implemented in the selected PHC clinics in order to complement
the physical improvements achieved through Component 1.
-5 -



I                  IndicativeIBank-                    % of
0  0 00  0Component 00140} 0:: :\.   ;; \Sector! 0 ; indCosts*60 2<00% of    fn   Bantd-
Upgrading Primary Health Care        Basic Health         5.78        65.3       5.01       63.4
Network
Establishing Health Managemnent      Health               1.32        14.9       1.19       15.1
Information System
Improving Quality and Efficiency of    Health             0.87         9.8       0.85       10.8
Care
Support to PIU (Project Coordination    Institutional     0.88         9.9      0.85       10.8
and Management)                      Development
Total Project Costs                       8.85      100.0       7.90      100.0
Total Financing Required                       8.85       100.0       7.90     100.0
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Financing for Pre-Implementation Activities. A PPF in the amount
of US$200,000 (about 3% of the proposed credit) wou:ld be requested by the Borrower foir fman(;ing the
following activities:  (i) preparation of detailed facility designs for the PHC  clinics selected for
implementation in the first year of the project; (ii) design of the HIC; and (iii) procurement: of cornputers
and office equipment for the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and QIP. The procurement of thes e items
will be in accordance with Bank procedures.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported bv the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms to be supported by the project include: (i) the development of
MOH's capacity to develop functional standards and operational guidelines for the health facilitii s as a
basis for a future role in accreditation, quality regulation, and rationalization of health care servi;::es; (ii)
establishment of the HIC under MOH in order to consolidate and upgrade the existing MIS capacit- within
MOH; (iii) institutionalization of a sector-wide QI process through the Quality Improvement Aivisory
Committee (Q1AC), which will include representatives from MOH, NGOs/private sector, and UNR';iVV.
3. Benefits and target population:
The beneficiaries of this project are the following:
* Residents of rural villages selected for PHC facility upgrades. Rural populations have Lirnited
access to PHC services, especially in the West Bank, and usually women and children arm more
dependent on health facilities that are closer to their cdomicile. Inproving access to, and the qua vity of,
PHC services in these rural villages would be likely to benefit the women and children in particu.iar.
* GHI policy holders, in general, who would beneJfi from a reduction in the number of deli qaent
payers and the improved targeting of public subsidies. In the absence of a reliable infor naltion
system, it is difficult to track which households are eligible social cases. An improved bent liciary
registration and eligibility checking system would allow the PA to target subsidies to de erving
households, and reduce the proportion of subsidies fior those not eligible.
* Staff and patients of the clinics selected as pilot sites for the MIS upgrade. They would beaefit
from the faster, more reliable services in admissions and visit appointments, as well as through r duced
- 6 -



losses of and errors in medical records, laboratory results, and other associated patient management
activities.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project Management. The project will be managed and implemented by a PIU located at MOH. The PIU
will be headed by the Project Director and staffed by finance and procurement specialists that have
experience with the Bank's procurement and disbursement procedures. Its functions will be to undertake
all aspects of routine project management, including the procurement of goods, works, and services;
management of disbursement and the project account; and the monitoring and evaluation of project inputs
and outputs. The PIU will coordinate closely with the technical departments and units within MOH that
are responsible for technical implementation of the project's activities. The PIU will seek policy guidance
fror, and report on a quarterly basis to, the Project Coordinating Comnmnittee (PCC), chaired by the
Minister of Health. The PCC's composition and functions are described in Annex 2.
Financial Management System and Auditing Arrangements. The financial management arrangements
of the project are detailed in Annex 6. The PIU will maintain accounting records, books of accounts, and
an internal control system acceptable to the TFGWB Administrator. An independent audit of the project
will be performed annually and submnitted to the Bank within five months of the close of each fiscal year.
Auditors' terms of reference will be submitted to the Administrator for clearance prior to their annual
appointment. The auditors' report will cover the project's financial statements, reconciliation and use of the
Special Account (SA), a listing of the fixed assets of the project, clear opinions on these, and a
management letter.
The current financial management system in place is considered satisfactory. However, a number of
actions, described in Annex 6(c), will need to be undertaken in order to prepare the PIU for disbursements
based on Project Management Reports (PMRs). Upon full implementation of the financial management
action plan, the Administrator will review the fmancial management arrangements to determine if the
project is eligible for PMR-based disbursements. Upon certification of PMR eligibility, the withdrawal
will be quarterly and based on the information contained in the PMRs. The PIU will need to submit
quarterly PMRs to the Administrator in the format developed and agreed upon during Appraisal. Prior to
the certification, and including the pre-implementation period during which the PPF will be used,
disbursements will be based on SOEs subject to the thresholds described in Annex 6, as well as on
supporting documentation for advances made to the SA for expenditures above the threshold and for direct
payments. Each disbursement application will be signed by two authorized signatories whose names and
corresponding signature specimens will be subrnitted to the Administrator through MOH.
Counterpart Funding. The project will open a separate bank account for the counterpart funding from the
PA for the Value Added Tax (VAT) compensation, as well as for the counterpart contributions financed by
the PA, which represent 85% of the incremental operating costs. Prior to Board presentation, the PIU will
open an account for counterpart funding in a conmmercial bank, based on a formal agreement reached
between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOH regarding the procedure for VAT reimbursement.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The PIU will be responsible for monitoring progress against
agreed-upon performance indicators (specified in Annex 1). For this purpose, it will develop and maintain
a project information system which will generate annual progress reports for the PA and relevant donors,
including the Administrator. Under Component 3, an in-depth Client Access, Utilization, and Satisfaction
Survey (CAUS) will be conducted at the start and end of the project imnplementation period in order to
measure the impact of the project on the quality and efficiency of the PHC services in the selected clinics.
The MOH's technical units responsible for implementing each project component will provide the PIU with
quarterly progress reports summarizing the current status of project implementation, including financial
- 7 -



records, explanations for deviations from agreed-upon implementation plans, constraints and corrective
measures to be taken, and a workplan for the subsequent six months. The PIU will also contract
independent technical auditors to undertake a technical review of each project component. These reports
will be consolidated by the PITJ and included in the quarterly PMR and Annual Progress Reports.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative 1: Comprehensive Health Sector Reform Program. This alternative would have involved a
major five-year investment program that included: (i) rationalization of MOH hospitals and the PHC
network; (ii) a major reform of the G1HI; and (iii) strengthening of MOH's contracting capacity. This
approach was rejected on the grounds that the political and econornic uncertainties surrounding the
Palestinian situation would introduce high level of risks to all investments. It was deemed to be more
prudent to reduce the scope of the project to those elements for which the investment requirements have
been fairly clearly quantified.  For example, to estimate the resource requirements for a hospital
rehabilitation program, it would be necessary to undertake a hospital rationalization strategy at both the
regional and national levels, and develop hospital master plans for each of the targeted hospitals or cluster
of hospitals. Since other donors, including the EU, have expressed interest in supporting such a study on a
grant basis, it was determined tha thne investments from the TFGWB should await the completion of such
studies.
Alternative 2: A Vertical Program for a Selected Management Component. In this approach, a more
intensive program would have been implemented in a single functional area (e.g., upgrading MIS capacity).
This strategy would have simplified project implementation; however, it was rejected on the basis that the
project should be designed to bring together several technical functions of MOH in order to promote
institutional integration and collaboration amrong the different technical units of MOH.
2. Major related projects fimanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supeiesin      1
Sector Issue  Proje-t  000fnP$R) Rti
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Expansion of MOH health delivery  Education & Health                 S             S
systern, establishment of QIP, and  Rehabilitation Project
Communications Link Feasibility
Study; and preparation of Five-Year
Health Plan
Support to NGOs involved in social   The Palestinian NGO Project     S             S
services, including health care
Improvement of social and economic   Community Development           S             S
infrastructure services in small   Projects I and II
municipalities and villages, including
rehabilitation of local clinics, schools,
and roads
-8 -



Other development agencies
Rehabilitation of PHC clinics in rural  UNDP/Japan (US$ 1.8 million)        1
West Bank
Training of family medicine doctors in  MAP/UK Project
order to upgrade quality of PHC   (EU-financed)
services
Rehabilitation and replacement of  EU (US$3 million)
substandard PHC facilities
Strengthening of MOH's health     DFID - Strengthening Health
management system                 Management (US$3 million)
Upgrading Government Health       Technical Assistance Trust
Insurance information system in Gaza  Fund (PECDAR/World Bank;
and West Bank (pilot phase)       US$200,000)
Implementation of Essential Drug  Drug Rationalization Program:
policy; preparation of standard   EU (US$0.3 million); World
formularies and standard diagnostic,   Bank Norwegian Trust Fund
treatment, and referral protocols; and   (US$0.03 million)
training of doctors
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The EHRP has demonstrated that the PA is capable of the efficient implementation of infrastructure
projects; however, the implementation record of other projects that focused on the development of
management systems has been more mixed. The following lessons can be drawn from these earlier
projects:
*   Before embarking on any new investment in health infrastructure, a sector-wide investment plan should
be developed that takes into account the availability of all the existing resources (including private and
NGO providers) and a realistic estimation of the available recurrent budget. Therefore, the project will
invest only in the replacement of existing facilities, while developing MOH's capacity to improve the
design and quality of primary care services.
*   Although technical capacity at the individual level is high, MOH is a new institution that is still
evolving in terms of its organizational structure and management systems. Therefore, the introduction
of new management systems and tools should be undertaken incrementally, at a pace that permits the
institutional structure to absorb and integrate the new systems before moving to the next step. The
project will support the implementation of relatively basic management systems and tools, while
postponing the introduction of more complex systems to a later phase.
*   Lack of coordination with other donor inputs in past projects has contributed to the duplication and
fragmentation of efforts within MOH. Hence, special attention was given to ensuring that the activities
included in the project are closely coordinated with, and complementary to, the inputs from other
donors in the sector--most notably the EU, DFID, UNDP, and WHO.
-9-



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower commitment is evidenced by the preparatoly activities for the project components which have
already been completed, and commitments from other donors are already in place. Specifically, MO:H has
completed a detailed survey of all PHC facilities in the West Bank and identified the priority sites for
replacement or rehabilitation. The pilot phase of the GCHI information system is being implemented with
TATF financing, and the QIP team is already staffecd and preparing for the activities to be fina:ced by
HSDP. The Drug Rationalization Program is an ongoing program which has been receiving support from
WHO and the World Bank, and will receive additional support from EU. The project components are also
included in MOH's Five-Year Health Plan (1999-2003).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The HSDP will bring to MOH the benefit of the Banks international experience and technical expertise in
the areas of health facilities planning, health insurance, health MIS, and quality improvement. The project
is also designed to stimulate collaboration and, where appropriate, promote the integration of the key MJOH
management activities that are currently being implemented independently by different departn ents in
MOH and supported by different donors.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ rnillion; ERR= %
* Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
With WBG's economy expected to grow only slightly during the period of 1999-2003, the prospects lor
growth in PA revenues are fairly limited. The growth in MOH's self-generated revenues from the Gl. I has
already leveled off, and, in real terms, these revenues declined slightly between 1997 and 1998. Futu.-e
expansion of GHI revenues will be restricted by limitations to the capacity of households to pay and;,
revenue structure that is regressive, with monthly premiums capped at NIS 75. per person. The MOHI 's
Three-Year Investment Plan for 1990-2001 proposed an a:mbitious US$299 million of donor capital
investment in hospitals, prirnary health care centers, and medical equipment. The recurrent costs
associated with these new investments would increase MOH expenditure by 40% from the current bu.lget,
clearly outstripping the expected revenues of MOH. Based on these projections, MOH is preparing to
curtail new investments and focus on strategies that would improve the quality of care within existing
resources.
The project is designed to contribute to direct and indirect cost savings for MOH by minimizing revervae
loss and reducing unnecessary clinical procedures and use of pharmaceuticals, thereby improving the
cost-effectiveness of services. The GHI registry information system will help to reduce the rate of
delinquent or unpaid premiums--currently estimated to be as high as NIS 8 million (UJS$2.1 million) iL tile
West Bank alone. A conservative 10% reduction in unpaid premiums as a result of improvements in . he
GHI registration and information system would more than offset the system development cost. The H.C
would establish MOH's capacity to develop and implement MIS for expenditure controls, utilization
reviews, and quality assurance. The costs of implementing Component 3 activities are also relatively !nmall
when compared to the potential benefits and cost savings that would result from improvements in qua:l ty
and efficiency. Drugs and health service outsourcing--or treatment abroad--are currently majot expenditure
items for MOH, representing 19% and 11%, respectively, of all MOH spending in 1998. The
- 10 -



implementation of standard treatment protocols could result in a savings of 5 to 10 percent. A 5 percent
savings in the drug budget--which averaged US$19.6 million in the years 1996 to 1998--would translate
into savings of almost US$1 million per year.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):    NPV=US$ million; FRR= %
Fiscal Impact:
In view of the expected fiscal constraints over the coming years, the project has been designed to have a
minimal impact on the recurrent costs of MOH. The 40 PHC clinics to be replaced would require
approximately US$0.9 million armually (in constant 1999 prices) in order to operate. However, because
these PHC facilities are already in existence and have operational budgets already allocated, this amount
would not represent incremental costs to the MOH budget. The major incremental costs associated with
the project are the operating costs of the HIC and the cost of maintaining the QIP team. The cost of
running the HIC is estimated to be about US$300,000 per year (in constant 1999 prices), representing
about 0.3% of MOH's total annual expenditures. The cost of running QIP is estimated to be around
US$100,000 per year during the life of the project. After the project, many of the QI activities would
become institutionalized within MOH, as the central departments of the Ministries and the health facilities
begin to undertake quality improvement activities as part of their routine activities. A number of new QI
initiatives are expected to be financed, on a project basis, that would support the quality improvement
efforts addressing emerging health management problems.
3. Technical:
The project builds upon the technical capacities that already exist within MOH, with emphasis on taking
incremental steps to further expand these capacities. For Component 1, the design and implementation of
the physical works for the small Level II clinics are straightforward, and MOH has already demonstrated
its capacity to implement larger and more complex civil works. By focusing on a simple design, the project
will allow greater attention to be paid to building MOH's capacity to establish functional facility standards.
For Component 2, the pilot MIS module development work for the health insurance system is already being
implemented by MOH. The project will support the foundation activities, including the establishment of a
standard data dictionary and data models, and the deployment of the basic MIS modules, which require
relatively few development activities, but are likely to add value to the work of clinicians and
administrators, thus winning their support for further development in the next phase. Component 3
activities build upon the strategies and interventions that have been developed and identified by the QIP
team in the ongoing EHRP. Overall, the project design minimizes the risk of introducing complex technical
programs, thereby allowing MOH to focus on institutionalization and the integration of modem
management capacities into its organizational structure.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
The MOH will be the executing agency for this project. Institutional assessment points to two areas that
require particular attention in terms of ensuring effective project implementation. The first is the need to
improve coordination and communication between the different units within MOH. The second is the lack
of a forum for coordinating activities and sharing information with the other health providers (NGO/private
and UNRWA). To address these issues, a Project Coordinating Commnittee (PCC) will be established to:
provide policy guidance; oversee PIU management of day-to-day project operation; and facilitate the
-11 -



coordination of activities among the various MOH unilts, as well as with outside agencies involved in the
project, including the donors. In addition, the MOH will establish a QIAC to promote collaborative efforts
among MOH, the NGO/private sector, and UNRWA on issues related to QI.
b. Project management:
The existing Project Coordinating Unit (P'CU) of MOH has gained considerable experience in project
management through its joint implementation with the P'alestinian Economic Council for Developm nent and
Reconstruction (PECDAR) of the ongoing EHRP over the last four years. The existing PCU has a
competent team of civil engineers and fnancial management and procurement specialists w]ho will form the
core staff of the PIU for the new project. The project will enhance the PIUs capacity through the
recruitment of additional accounting and procurement assistants and a public health specialist. As. part of
the pre-implementation activities, the PIL will receive technical assistance in reviewing and updating the
existing financial management systems and procedures in order to develop a computerized Project
Management Information System that will generate the quarterly PMRs and establish auditing
arrangements. An Action Plan has been prepared and agreed upon with the P1I to ensure that the financial
management and procurement systems are in place and ready for disbursement by the project's start date
(see Annex 6 for details).
5. Social:
Deteriorating economic conditions in WBG have imposed more demands on MOH, the Ministry of Social
Affairs (MOSA), and NGOs that provide health and social services in WBG. As of 1997, approximately
half a million Palestinians lived in poverty--about 40% of the population in Gaza and 10%iD of the
population in the West Bank. As prospects for econornic growth remain bleak over the medium-tenm, these
social conditions are not expected to improve. Within this difficult economic context, ensuring ..ccess to
affordable health services is critical. Since its inception, MOH has pursued the policy of expandirg health
insurance coverage and ensuring that those unable to pay the premiums under the GHI system are covered
as social cases. GHI enrollment has increased from 20% of the total WBG population in 1994 to cver 40%
in 1997; of these, about 19% qualified as social cases, and are therefore entitled to GHI ccverage without
having to pay any premiums. In principle, all vulnerable households in need of special assistanze (e.g.,
families with unemnployed heads of household) are entitled to apply for welfare support from MC' A, and
registration as a social welfare case autormatically entitles one to inclusion in the GHI. [n addition, all
pregnant women and children under age 3 are automatically covered under the GHI. NG(:)s have
historically played a key role in providing health services to the Palestinian poor. According -o some
NGOs, prior to 1994 about 15-25% of their patients qualified as social cases and were given fiee or
subsidized care.
NGOs are increasingly facing resource constraints due to decreasing funding from donors, and, in order to
reduce their deficits, many NGOs are reducing services and/or closing sites, especially in rural areas. This
adds to the burden on MOH to extend services to the poor. However, the effectiveness of the MC SA and
MOH social welfare program can be questioned, especially in terms of identifying and targeting tlhe most
vulnerable groups. In 1998, just over 150,000 Palestinians (38,000 famnilies) had been cerlified Ea; social
cases, representing only about one-third of those estimated to be living in poverty. UNRWA, which also
provides free health services for Palestinians with refugee status, forms another layer of social pro:aection
for the poor. There are no clear data with respect to the numbers of Palestinians who are poor but not
covered through MOH or UNRWA, or those that have services provided gratis by NGOs. Girer. that
about half a million Palestinians live in poverty, it is possible that a significant number of poor arc not
covered through any of these mechanisms, and receive no other types of social support because they are not
part of a formal public or private social safety net. Estirates suggest that between 140,000 and 27C;,000
Palestinians are living in poverty and receiving no social welfare (see Social Assessment Report i: 'PIP).
- 12 -



Therefore, it is of paramount importance that MOH's beneficiary registration system be strengthened and
the outreach program to educate the poor on the availability of social programs improved.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category E A El C
ZIB DFI
The amount of medical waste produced by the PHC facilities included in this project is expected to be
minimal. The involved health facilities are very small and are not expected to cause resettlement issues, as
the selected sites are located on public lands owned by the municipalities. The environmental impact of
each health clinic will be screened for MOH by the PIU so that any appraisal issues related to the Banks
social and environmental safeguard policies can be identified. The project includes an Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) that will establish routine procedures for ensuring safe practices in regard to
waste management (see Annex 11). The main issues to be addressed in the EMP include the following: (i)
demolition work (for old facilities); (ii) the selection of construction materials and methods; (iii) waste
disposal; and (iv) the handling of medical and non-medical wastes. The project will focus on waste
management within the clinic, but will also coordinate closely with the Ministry of Environmental Affairs
(MOEA) and the municipalities on the transport of medical waste from the clinic to the disposal site.
Facility designs will emphasize the use of energy-saving, environmentally-friendly materials and
energy-efficient construction. This will contribute to savings on recurrent costs during operation, and
reduce potential environmental hazards that could arise from the choice of inappropriate building materials.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The project benefited from the consultative process that took place with MOH, the NGOs/private sector,
and the donors during the preparation and dissemination of the Bank-fmanced Medium-term Health Sector
Study (Health Sector Study Workshop, April 1998). The activities included in the project were also
discussed and reviewed during the preparation of the Five-Year Health Plan (1999-2003), which also
involved a broad consultative process that included MOH, the central ministries, NGOs, and the local
communities.
Participants           Preparation          Implementation               Operation
Beneficiaries,         n/a                  evaluation; patient access,  post-evaluation
communities                                 utilization, and satisfaction
surveys
NGOs/private           consultation         collaboration                collaboration, participation
providers                                                                in post-evaluation
MOPIC'/MOF             consultation         consultation/                collaboration
collaboration
Other donors           collaboration        collaboration                post-evaluation
/a: Ministry of Planning and International Cooperation
b. Other key stakeholders:
Not applicable.
-13 -



F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As described above in the section on Financial Impact, the project components were devised so as
to minimize the incremental recurrent cost to MOH. The project design assumes, however, that (he MOH
budget would be maintained at least at the current level in real terms. Barring a serious contraction in
MOH's projected revenues, the incremental costs geneTated by the project should be sustainable over the
medium-term.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
R_sk                  Risk Rati! 2i       Risk Miniatioui Measure7
From Outputs to Objective
PA does not allocate adequate budget      S         Selection of PHC facilities will inclhde
for operation of the newly-upgraded                 the confirmation of adequate recurrent
PHC clinics.                                        budget for the existing sites.
Poor coordination among the project       M         Project Coordinating Committee wil]
components, donors, and key                         meet periodically to review project
stakeholders (NGOs, UTNRWA)                         progress and keep key stakeholders
undermines the effective use of                     informed; periodic coordinating
capacities developed by the project.                workshops that would share information
and promote participation by the key
stakeholders are included in the project
inputs.
Parallel activities from EU, UNDP, and    M         EU commirtments to parallel fimding are
WHO are not implemented.                            expected to be confirmed prior to
effectiveness. DFID and UNI)P/Jap an
projects are already approved and in
implementation phase.
From Components to Outputs
Site selection for PHC facilities is      M         Availability of land will be a
delayed due to difficulties in finding              prerequisite for the selection of sites.
available land.
- 14-



Counterpart funds are not provided on a   S         The MOF will set aside a Special Fund
timely basis.                                      for the project.
Delays in the recruitment of qualified    M         Core team members are already in place
staff for the HIC occur.                            in MOH, and the recruitment of
additional staff will be initiated prior to
credit effectiveness.
Delays in the formation of the QIAC       M         The Committee will be formed prior to
occur.                                              credit effectiveness.
Delays in project implementation occur    M         Staff of the existing PCU has
due to lack of experience and training of           experience in implementing Bank
project management.                                 projects, and will be retained to
implement HSDP. There will be
training of new PITU staff in Bank
procurement and disbursement
procedures.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
Not applicable.
G: Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Conditions for Board Presentation:
The following conditions have been fulfilled by MOH:
*  The Project Director, Financial Manager, and Procurement Officer of the PIU have been
confirmed to their respective positions, and recruitment of the additional PIJ staff has been
approved.
*   MOH has appointed the PCC.
*   MOH has appointed the QIAC.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
a 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
- 15-



quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed. under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Akiko Maeda                       Jacques F. Baudouy                        . S  a
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Mlanager/Director
- 16-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Strengthening the role of the  *Improved access to basic    *Periodic sector analysis of   Political uncertainties and
state in: ensuring sustainable  health services for under-  health indicators, health    economic downturn would not
and equitable access to basic   served population;     expenditures, and service    significantly undermine the
health services; protecting  *Expanded insurance       utilization indicators by  implementation of the
public safety and ensuring  coverage rate with more    subsectors (MOH/UNRWA/ necessary policy reforms.
quality of care; and promoting  equitable contribution  NGO/private);
a constructive partnership  system, and outreach to   *Annual Report on health
between the PA and          vulnerable households;     insurance enrollment and
non-governmental sectors in  *A more rational allocation of  contributions by MOH; and
order to make more effective   health resources (e.g.,  *Periodic household
use of scarce resources     through an expansion in    expenditure and health
contracts between MOH and  service utilization surveys by
NGO/private providers); and  the Palestinian Central
* Reduction in number of    Bureau of Statistics (PCBS).
unnecessary treatments and
referrals abroad.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Improved access to high-   Increased percent of MOH   Facility surveys by the PHC    Disruption in movement of
quality, affordable PHC    PHC clinics meeting        Department at MOH          staff and goods, as well as
services, especially for those  minimum facility, staffing,                       budget constraints leading to
in rural and underserved areas and equipment standards                            delays in payments to
contractors, will be kept to a
minimum.
A unified, operational GHI   Joint Report by Health
registry                   Insurance Department and
HIC
Improved service quality   The CAUS for the selected    MOH engages in effective
indicators (utilization rate,    PHC facilities       coordination with
waiting time, patient satis-                          NGO/private providers,
faction, clinical standards)                          UNRWA, professional
--as identified in the CAUS--  Report of the QIAC     associations, and other
for PHC clinics in underserved                        stakeholders for quality
conmnunities                                          improvement and quality
regulation.
-17 -



Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
1. Strengthening of MOH's  1.1 Replacement of forty (40) Technical evaluation reports  PA allocates adequate budget
capacity to iniprove access to  substandard PHC clinics with by external consultants on    to operate the newly-upgrac2ed
high -quality PHC services;   new clinics that meet MOH    facility design and site  PHC facilities at full capacity.
and implementation of     facility standards         selection
supportive facility       1.2 Training of seventy-five
rehabilitation programs at    (75) facility nanagers,
planners, and engineers in
MOH in modern facilities
planning, design, and
maintenance
2. Establishment of       2.1 Establishment of HIC   Technical evaluation report on Effective coordination among
foundation for a modern   facility and core staff in place the deployment of unified GHI the project components and
Health MIS                by end of project (EOP)    information system and CIS-I key stakeholder; (NGOs,
2.2 Preparation of standard                          UNRWA) takes place.
health data dictionary and
data model by end of the first
year for GHI information
system and CIS-I
2.3 Operation of a unified
GHI information system in all
WBG Health Insurance offices
by EOP
2.4 Operation of CIS-I in two
MOH clinics by EOP
3. Strengthening of MOH's  3.1 Dissemination and use of Annual report of the QIAC    Effective coordi:'lation with
capacity to improve quality   quality standards for the four                    WHO and EU Helalth
and efficiency of health  priority clinical areas by EOP                        Programs takes place.
services                  3.2 Preparation and testing of
PHC operational guidelines in
selected pilot PHC clinics by
EOP
3.3 TAO quarterly reporting  Annual Report by TAO
system in place by EOP
4. Operation of project   4.1 Satisfactory and timely   Quarterly PMR
management system         provision of standard project
management indicators
- 18 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components         I Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
Component 1: Upgrading   1. Cost: $5.8 million        *Project supervision reports   Land is available for all of the
Primary Health Care         1.1 Design and construction  * Technical supervision report sites selected for the
Network                    of Level II PHC clinics, and    on facility site and design.   replacement of PHC clinics.
procurement of equipment and
furniture
1.2 Technical assistance on
facility design, planning, and
maintenance
1.3 Training workshop on
health facility design and
maintenance
Component 2: Establishing  2. Cost: $1.3 million      *Project Supervision Reports  PA counterpart funds are
Health Management (        2.1 Design and construction  *Technical evaluation reports provided on a timely basis.
Information System (HiMIS) of HIC; procurement of      on the deployment of the    Recruitment of qualified staff
furniture and equipment; and   Health MIS             forHitaes place inatm
85% of staffmg and operating                          for HIC takes place .  a timely
costs
2.2 Technical assistance,
workshops, and study visits
for HMIS capacity building
2.3 Technical assistance and
workshops implemented for
compiling Data Dictionary
and Data Model
2.4 Technical assistance,
equipment, and 85% of
operational support for
establishing a unified Health
Insurance MIS
2.5 Technical assistance,
equipment, and 85% of
operational support for
establishing CIS-I at three
pilot sites
- 1 9 -



Component 3: Improving    3. Cost: $ 0.9 million      *PMRs                       There will be delays in the
the Quality and Efficiency   3.1 Staffing and operating    * Annual reports of QIAC  formation of the QIAC.
of Care                    costs of the QIP teamn, and  peae  yteQPta
upgrading of computer and   prepared by the QIP team
office equipment
3.2 Production of guidelines,
technical assistance, and
training workshops to
disseminate standa:rd protocols
and procedures for the four
priority QI areas
3.3 Technical assistance and
workshops to develop quality
standards, protocols, and
procedures; and preparation of
operations manual for PHC
clinics
3.4 Study on drug prescribing
patterns and use.
3.5 Technical assistance and
equipment for upgrading
TAO's information system
Support to the Project     Total Cost: $0.9 million   *PMRs and annual audit      Project managemmt staff
Implementation Unit        4.1 Staffing and 85% of     reports                    possess the necessary
operating costs of the PIU  * Regular supervision of   qualifications and experience.
4.2 Training in procurement   project activities
and project management     *Timely identification of
4.3 Office equipment and    bottlenecks, and proactive
coniputers                  efforts taken in order to
resolve them
4.4 Consultants to assist in
project monitoring,
supervision, and audits
-20 -



Annex 2: Project Description
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.76 million
Upgrading Primary Health Care Network
This component aims to improve the quality of primary health care services for the disadvantaged
population in WBG by replacing the existing substandard Level II Primary Health Care (PHC) clinics with
PHC clinics of higher quality. Level II clinics are small community health centers staffed by a full-time
nurse and a full- or part-time doctor, with a capacity to receive about 8,000-12,000 visits per year. The
selection criteria for the sites are: (i) the availability of MOH staff and operating budget; (ii) identification
of site as being substandard based on the comprehensive facility survey of 1998; (iii) availability of land
for building the replacement clinic; (iv) absence of alternative NGO clinics in the same catchment area; and
(v) location of site in a relatively strategic location with respect to patient referral patterns.
This investment is a part of MOH's comprehensive Primary Health Care Rehabilitation Program, prepared
jointly by MOH, EU, UNDP, WHO, and the World Bank. These agencies have cooperated closely in
undertaking surveys of all MOH PHC facilities, and have identified and selected priority PHC facilities in
the West Bank. The total cost of this larger project is estimated to be around US$10 million, of which the
World Bank will fnance US$5.0 million. The UNDP has received a Japanese Grant of US$1.8 million for
this purpose, and the EU will provide financing of about US$3 million. The World Bank-financed
component will: establish the functional design and standards of the PHC facilities; implement the first
phase of the replacement of substandard PHC clinics; and strengthen MOH's capacity to conduct facility
surveys and design modern health facilities. The following activities are proposed under this project:
*   1.1  Upgrading Substandard PHC Clinics in the West Bank and Gaza (US$5.7 million): This
subcomponent will support: (i) construction, equipment, and furniture for replacing 40 substandard
PHC clinics; and            (ii) consultants for the design and supervision of construction. The
facility design and supervision of construction will follow the environmental guidelines described in the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP; see Annex 11).
*   1.2 Developing Institutional Capacity (US$0.07 million): This subcomponent will provide: (i)
training of MOH staff in procurement and facilities design and supervision; and (ii) technical
assistance in health facility planning, mnaintenance, and management. The EMP guidelines will be an
integral part of staff training in facility design, management, and maintenance.
Project Component 2 - US$1.34 million
Establishing Health Management Information System
This component will establish the foundation for a comprehensive Health Management Information System
(HMIS) in WBG. It is designed to yield operational benefits for clinicians and administrators, while
providing essential data for decision making by health planmers, policy makers, and service providers.
*   2.1 Establishing a Health Information Center (US$0.78 million): This subcomponent supports the
consolidation of the various MOH health information systems into one Health Information Center
(HIC). The Center will be the focal point for coordinating, designing, and implementing all
MIS-related activities for MOH, including, but not limited to, those related specifically to this project.
Existing MOH MIS staff will be relocated to this facility. The project will also support capacity
building for MOH MIS staff.
- 21 -



(a) Facility, equipment, and furniture for the HIC. The project will finance the design and
construction of the HIC facility within MOH's 7Nablus premises. In Gaza, the HIC facility will be
constructed as part of the new MOH administrative building, and will be funded by Saudi funds.
The two HIC facilities will be equipped with a PC systern connected by a local area network
(LAN), with Intemret and telecommunications conmections for accessing the MIS modules being
developed by other MOH departmrrents and facilities. HIC staff will have a telephone, access to a
fax machine and copier, and access to the Internet for email and web browsing. The project will
also finance the purchase of professional softwvare development tools, as well as office eqaipment
and furniture.
(b) Capacity Building of the HIC Staff The HIC will initially be staffed by a core of existing, MOH
personnel (five staff are already in place), and this number will gradually increase as ncw MIS
activities are initiated. By the end of the project, the HIC is expected to have nine technical staff.
The project will finance:      (i) textbooks, journals, and audiovisual educational niaterials
related to HMIS for the Library; (ii) two workshops in WBG (one on "Information Exchange of
Existing HMIS Projects in Health in WBG"; and a second on "Design of HMIS Systemns for
Health"); and (iii) the attendance of four HMIS staff at an international conference in order to
provide them with access to the latest products and resources. In addition, the project will finance
85% of its staffing and operating costs during the life of the project.
* 2.2 Defining, a Health Data Dictionary and Data Model (US$0.03 million): The Health Data
Dictionary and Data Model together will form the basis for the design of the computerized information
systems, but they can also be used to ensure that comparable definitions of clinical and administrative
procedures and terms are used throughout the health care system. These terms will be those coimmonly
used in epidemiological analyses, utilization reviews, and administrative and financial functons by
MOH practitioners and decision makers in WBG. The project will support the following activitii. s:
(a) Workshops.  The project will support two workshops related to the production of the Data
Dictionary and Data Model: (i) a preparatory workshop to define the objectives and pri.pare a
detailed work program and strategies for the technical working group; and (ii) an eva luation
workshop to review the Data Dictionary and Data Model that have been developed, and p[lan for
their dissemnination and use.
(b) Preparation of the Health Data Dictionary anad Data Model. The Data Dictionary will contain
the specific "semantics" of each term needed to define the MIS associated with the GHI and: linical
information systems being developed under the project. The Data Model, which is the computer
analog of the Data Dictionary, will define how each field is formatted within computer databases
and how data elements are related to one another. The project will finance technical assista:ace for
preparing the Health Data Dictionary and Data M:odel.
*   2.3 Creating a Health Insurance Information System (US$0.40 million): The objective of this
activity is to create the basis for a modern Health Insurance System that has a single registry Co:r all
beneficiaries, and one that provides consistent health insurance services for all Palestinians in WBG.
The new systemn would be a successor to today's existing systems--based largely on their res-rective
designs--but it will also introduce a more updated capacity than exists in the current system. TVie new
system will be housed in the new HIC in Gaza and linked to the West Bank and other areas in Gaza.
At this stage, the system will include enhanced beneficiary registration, premium collectio;n, and
eligibility retrieval functionality. Later projects would continue to build on this foundation, .dding
payer functionality for claims adjudication and reimbursement, capitation, contracting, andl other
advanced functions that are essential in expanding the choice of services available to the beneficiaries,
while maintaining efficiency and control in terms of cost and quality.
- 22 -



The system will be implemented in three stages. The first stage (pilot phase) involves the development
of the software, which will be tested in selected alpha sites (district Health Insurance offices in Jericho
and Khan Younis). This stage is currently being implemented through the Technical Assistance Trust
Fund (TATF; US$200,000), and is scheduled to be completed by December 1999. In the second stage,
the project will support the deployment of pilot programs in all district offices (nine sites in West Bank
and four in Gaza), thereby attaining the connection of all West Bank district Health Insurance offices
to the Ramallah central office, as well as the connection of remote centers to the Gaza City central
office. Up to this stage, the insurance information systems in WBG will be developed as independent
(but consistent) systems. The third stage will involve the convergence of the two independent systems
into a fully-integrated registry that is accessible from connected sites anywhere in WBG. Technical
assistance, equipment, and 85% of the operation and maintenance costs of the system will be financed
for the duration of the project.
* 2.4. Building a Clinic Information System (Level I) (US$0.13 million): The activity will introduce a
modem Clinic Information System (CIS) into MOH clinics. It is envisioned that each MOH clinic will
eventually have a computer system. The CIS Level I (CIS-I) will improve current clinical efficiencies
by enabling the rapid registration of patients and accurate tracking of patient appointments, providing a
short clinical summary of previous clinic visits, identifying insurance coverage (GHI or other), and
facilitating the production of patient encounter forms. At this stage, the system will address only the
most essential functions, but it will become the basis for building further functionality. CIS-I will be
tested and deployed in two MOH clinics selected according to the following criteria: (a) size; (b)
integration with other HMIS components which may already exist at that clinic; (c) feasibility of
support by computer professionals; and (d) positive attitude of the clinic administrator toward MIS.
Technical assistance, training, equipment, and 85% of the operational and maintenance costs of the
system will be fnanced for the duration of the project.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.87 million
Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Care
This component will address the priority problem areas identified by MOH with respect to the quality and
efficiency of health care in WBG. These priority areas have been selected on the basis that each: presents
a potentially serious health risk to patients if not addressed; is a major epidemiological problem among the
WBG population; imposes a heavy cost burden on the MOH budget; and has feasible and affordable
solutions that do not exceed the limited resources and capacity of MOH. This component will support the
following activities: (i) institutionalization of the process of prioritizing and developing quality standards
and quality improvement programs in the health system; (ii) application of quality standards and guidelines
in selected priority interventions; (iii) rationalization of prescribing patterns and use; (iv) strengthening of
MOH's capacity to improve the quality and cost-effectiveness of services contracted out by MOH; and (v)
enhancement of MOH's capacity to monitor and evaluate health service quality and efficiency. Each
activity is summiarized below.
*   3.1 Institutionalizing  the  Quality  Improvement (QI) Process  (US$0.39  million):   This
subcomponent will continue to build the capacity of the Quality Improvement Program (QIP), which
was piloted under the Education & Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP). A critical issue to be
addressed is the institutionalization of the quality improvement process within MOH. Specifically, the
project will support the following activities:
(a) Establishment of a Quality Improvement Advisory Committee (QIAC). The Committee will
provide expert guidance and policy recommendations to the Office of the Minister on the priority
health issues that should be subjected to quality assessment, and subsequently develop a
-23 -



medium-term strategy for quality improvement. The Conmmittee will also review the work
program, as well as the design and policy relevance of the tools and methods developed by QIP,
and ensure their linkages to MOH's broader policies, such as the accreditation and licensing of
health facilities and providers.  The project will finance the quarterly meetings and annual
workshops of QIAC for reviewing the progress of QIP, and ensure coordination with othel partners
in the sector (NGO/private providers, donors, and UNRWA).
(b) Capacity Building of the QIP Team. The project will finance the following inputs: (il staffing
and operational costs of the QIP unit (four professionals, two support staff, and oplrational
budget); (ii) purchase of QIP office computer and equipment; and (iii) short-term. training
workshops and technical assistance in QI processes and standards development.
*   3.2 Application of Quality Standards and Procedures in Selected Priority Health Areas (UJS$0.13
million): Under the ongoing EHRP, the QIP has piloted the development of quality standards and
quality improvement procedures in four priority health areas identified by MOH, including nosocomial
infection and diabetes management. This subcomponent will support the production and dissemination
of tools and methods--including those for QI assessment, reporting, and implementation guidelines--in
the selected areas of clinical procedures and service management. In addition, the QIP will, in. close
collaboration with the PHC Department of MOR, develop manuals with quality standards and
operational guidelines for the PHC clinics. These IPHC manuals will include guidance on diaIgnostic,
treatment, and referral (DTR) protocols for the most common primary care interventions. The. project
will finance training workshops, study tours, and technical assistance in these priority areas.
*   3.3 Drug Rationalization (US$0.08 million):  hlis subcomponent will complement a larger Drug
Rationalization Program (DRP) being jointly implemented by the EU and WHO, which includies: the
preparation of a Palestinian essential drug list and drug forinulary; standard DTR protocols based on
the Palestinian epidemiological profile; and training of all MOH PHC physicians in the DTR protocols.
In addition to the Health System Development Project (HSDP), the World Bank will be providing
separate grant financing to support the preparation of DTR protocols at the PHC level. The project
will finance technical assistance and workshops in order to undertake a study that will examine )Gth the
prescribing practices of physicians ancd pharmacists and the drug use patterns of patients.
O   3.4 Improving the Quality and Cost-effectiveness of Treatment Abroad Cases (US$0.07 miltion):
The Treatment Abroad/Medical Referral Office (TAO) of MOH is responsible for referrng and
contracting services for patients that require treatment outside of MOH facilities. The project aims to
strengthen TAO's capacity to negotiate, design, and monitor the quality and efficiency of ~,ervices
contracted to health care providers both within and outside of WBG. The project will fin;ince the
following inputs:
(a) Procurement of updated software and expanded hardware capacity in order to upgrade IAO's
information management capacity;
(b) Technical assistance to design and implement a quarterly reporting system that will be LIstd by
service contractors to report services delivered (by ICD 10 category), summary outcorrme data,
costs of services, and other data deemed necessary by MOH; and
(c) Technical assistance in reviewing the existing mechanisms for pre-contract award ind the
monitoring of contract performance, as well as in prescribing strategies for improving the quality
and cost-effectiveness of contracted services.
*   3.5 Strengthening MOH's capacity to monitor and evaluate the quality and efficiency ojf health
services (US$0.07 million): This subcomponent is designed to strengthen MOH's capacity to design
and implement monitoring and evaluation tools and rmethods that can be broadly applied by both MOTH
- 24 -



and the private sector in assessing the quality and efficiency of health services. At the same time, these
studies will provide essential tools for measuring project effectiveness in terms of the key output
indicators. Specifically, the project will finance the following activities: (i) baseline and follow-up
Client Access, Utilization, and Satisfaction Surveys (CAUS), which will involve focus groups, in-depth
interviews, and facility surveys designed to determnine patient access to, utilization of, and satisfaction
with, as well as provider satisfaction with, the PHC services in the selected catchment areas; (ii) an
in-depth cost-benefit/cost-effectiveness study of at least one of the clinical quality imnprovement
programs being introduced in this project (e.g., improved case management of diabetes, reduction of
nosocomial infection rate in hospitals); and (iii) a cost analysis study of MOH's use of overseas
medical referrals for clinical services.
Project Component 4 - US$0.88 million
Support to Project Implementation Unit (Pil) for Project Coordination and Management
Coordination. The Project Coordination Committee (PCC) has the overall responsibility for overseeing
the implementation of the project, including for approval of the project work program and review of
progress reports. It will also provide policy guidance and ensure effective coordination among MOH units
and other organizations. The PCC will also include external advisory members, whose role is to ensure
effective coordination with organizations outside of MOH involved in project activities. These external
advisory members will include, but are not limited to: representatives from the NGO community; the
Medical Syndicate; and UNRWA. The PCC will meet on a quarterly basis to: review the work program
and progress report submitted by the PIU; consider whether issues directly related to the health system,
whether internal or external, may have an impact on the project components; and recommend appropriate
courses of action. The Project Director of the PIU will function as the Secretariat for these Committee
meetings. Project progress reports, after review by the PCC, will be circulated among the relevant MOH
departments, the Ministries of Finance (MOF) and Planning and International Cooperation (MOPIC), and
donors in order to ensure high levels of coordination. The PCC will also convene an annual meeting to be
attended by donors and representatives from MOF, MOPIC, NGO/private sector, and UNRWA, who will
be invited to present project progress and share project outputs.
Management. The project will be managed and implemented on a day-to-day basis by the PIU, which will
be located at MOH. The PIU will be headed by the Project Director and staffed by finance and
procurement specialists with experience in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures. Its functions
are to undertake all aspects of routine project management, including: preparation of work programs;
maintenance of flow-of-funds and project accounts; coordination of technical inputs with the appropriate
MOH departments and units; and monitoring, evaluation, and regular reporting in terms of the project
implementation process and outputs. The PIU will also prepare quarterly progress reports in the form of
Project Management Reports (PMRs) for review by the PCC and the Bank. Detailed organizational charts
and terms of reference for the PCC and PIU are provided in the Implementation Manual. The project will
finance: (a) the staffmg and operational costs of the PIU; (b) procurement of office computers, equipment,
and furniture; and (c) consultants to assist in project supervision, monitoring, and audit.
- 25 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Estimated Project Costs by Component
% ,sf
% ss       Toilal
Project Component                                       Local  Foreign   Total  Foreign  Base Gist
----__ _ _ _In US$ million------
1. Upgrading Primary Health Care (PHC) Facilities        2.71      2.67    5.39       50          56
2. Establishing a Health Management Information system
(a) Health Information Center (HIC)                    0.46      0.26    0.72       35          9
(b) Data Dictionary and Data model                     0.01     0.02    0.03       73
(c) Health Insurance Information System                0.26     0.11    0.37       31           5
(d) Clinic Information System (CIS)                    0.08      0.04    0.12       31          1
Subtotal   0.81      0.44    1.24       35          [l5
3. Improving Quality and Efficiency
(a) Quality Improvement Advisory Committee (QIA(C)     0.27      0.08    0.35      24           4
& Quality Improvement Project (QIP)
(b) Quality Improvement (QI)                           0.08     0.04    0.12       3;          3.
(c) Monitoring & Evaluation                            0.11     0.07    0.18       3'.          2
(d) Drugs Rationalization                              0.04      0.03    0.07       3!:         l
(e) Assistance to Treatments Abroad Office (TAO)       0.02     0.04    0.06       7.           1
Subtotal   0.52      0.26    0.78       3'i
4. Supporting the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)       0.72     0.09    0.81       1l          1i]
Total Baseline Cost   4.76     3.46    8.22       42        101)
Physical Contingencies    0.26   0.19    0.46       42           6
Price Contingencies    0.11   0.07    0.18       31! 2
Total Project Cost   5.13     3.72    8.85       42        10B,
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
- 26 -



Estimated Project Costs by Expenditure Category
% of
% as      Total
Expenditure Category                              Local  Foreign   Total   Foreign  Base Cost
n--- US$ million--------
1. Investment Costs
(a) Civil Works                             2.17     1.78    3.95        45         48
(b) Goods
Medical Equipment                   0.11      0.65    0.76        85          9
Miscellaneous Equipment             0.02      0.13    0.14        88          2
Software, Books, and Journals       0.01      0.05    0.06        88          1
Computers                           0.03      0.18    0.20        88          2
Furniture                           0.32      0.21    0.54        40          7
Subtotal    0.49     1.22    1.70        71         21  e
(c) Services
International Specialists              -      0.15    0.15       100          2
Local Specialists                   0.57      0.14    0.72        20          9
Architecture/Engineering Specialists  0.25    0.06    0.31        20          4
Subtotal    0.83     0.36     1.18       30         14
(d) Training
Workshops                           0.11      0.02    0.13        15          2
Study Visits                           -      0.03    0.03       100
Subtotal    0.11     0.05    0.16        29          2
(e) Project Management
PIT Salaries                        0.59         -    0.59         -          7
Operational Budget                  0.07      0.01    0.08        15          1
Subtotal    0.67     0.01    0.68         2         10
Total Investment Costs    4.26    3.41    7.68        44         93
2. Recurrent Costs (Incremental)
(a) Salaries                                0.23        -    0.23          -         3
(b) Operation                               0.24     0.04    0.28         15          3
(c) Maintenance and Repair                  0.02     0.01     0.04        30          -
Total Recurrent Costs    0.49    0.05    0.54         10          7
Total Baseline Cost    4.76    3.46    8.22        42        100
Physical Contingencies    0.26   0.19    0.46        42          6
Price Contingencies    0.11   0.07    0.18        37           2
Total Project Cost    5.13    3.72    8.85        42        108
Taxes (included in Total Project Cost)    0.86    -    0.86         10
Note: Totals may not add up due to rounding.
- 27 -



Annex 4
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Overall Economic Outlook. WBG's economy is expected to grow only slightly during the tirr.e period
1999-2003. Estimates for real per capita growth in GNP during this period vary from a high of '..2% per
year to a low of -1.6% per year, with anmual population growth averaging 3.8%. High unemployment rates
(estimated to be as high as 30% in 1998),, dependency on the Israeli economy, and a contraztion ir. exports
have all contributed to a recent slowing ofeconomic growth. As a result, the Palestinian Authority (PA) is
likely to experience a liquidity shortage in the upcoming years, despite a recent strengthenir i of tax
collection systems and enforcement.
Implications for the Health Sector. The medium-terrn macroeconomic outlook for WBG is likely to affect
the health sector in at least three ways: (i) by restricting households' capacity to pay for services; (ii) by
constraining investment in the private health sector; and (iii) by limiting MOH's budget. With limited real
per capita economic growth in the upcoming years, household expenditures for health care are unlikely to
increase substantially. The distribution oi'household health expenditures by poverty category suggrests that
equity in access to health care is also a concern--the poorest group, defined as those households f;r which
food represents more than 45% of all consumption, spends only NIS 56 per household per month cn health
care, or about NIS 7 per person (average size for this category of households is 7.5 persors). By
comparison, the monthly premium rate fcr the Governnent Health Insurance (GHI) program var .es from
NIS 40-75 per person. In principle, famnilies that are designated as social cases (e.g., unemployed head of
household) are exempted from paying the premnium, but are required to make the copayments (N[S 3 for
drug prescription and NIS 1 for laboratory diagnostics) ;at the time of service use. The effectiveness of this
social safety net structure remains to be assesssed.
The MOH is likely to experience serious fimding constraints over the next five years. Measured in constant
dollars, MOH expenditures have recently declined considerably--from US$90 rnillion in 1996 and US$95
million in 1997 to US$82 million in 1998 (Table 1). The MOH has spent relatively little fo: capital
investments, nearly all of which have been assumed by donors. In 1998, referrals (mostly to facilities in
Israel, Jordan, and Egypt) represented 11%/ of total MOH spending, and drugs accounted for an a:,' ditional
19 percent.
Table 1. MOH Expenditures by Category, 1996-1998 (in millions of constant 1998 IJS Dollars)
Total       MOISl-gnrtd            Fiacn  rom Oenueral ?A
Expenditure   Rtevenues (icluding G :I)      Revenues
Year  $. millions$ mllions                $  illions 
1996        90.3        33.9          38          56.4          62
1997        95.1        43.4          46          51.6          54
1998*       81.8          43           53          38.8         47
* Data for 1998 are preliminary.
- 28 -



Table 2. MOH Expenditures and Revenues by Source, 1996-1998
(in millions of constant 1998 US Dollars)
Category
Referrals I
Year      Salaries       Drugs        Overseas       Other         Capital        Total
Treatment     Recurrent
$             $ S    %      5             $ S           S      %       $     %
1996    37.8   42    20.7   23    14.8   16    15.8   17    1.2          1    90.3   100
1997    42.6   45    23.8   25    9.0       9     18.1   19    1.6       2     95.1   100
1998*   38.3   47    15.9   19    8.7       1 1    18.3   22    0.5      1    81.8   loo
*Data for 1998 are prelinrinary.
The MOH generates substantial revenues from GHI contributions. This source covered 38-53% of MOH
expenditures from 1996-1998; however, the growth in MOH's self-generated revenues has already leveled
off, and, in absolute real terms, these revenues declined slightly from 1997 to 1998 (Table 2). A lack of
contracting arrangements with the private sector constrains further growth in coverage: currently, GHI
insurance pays only for the use of MOH facilities and, in some cases, referrals for specialized care.
Likewise, the potential expansion of GHI revenues will be restricted by limitations on households' capacity
to pay (see Table 1 above), and by a revenue structure which is essentially regressive--with premiums
capped at NIS 75 per person in both the voluntary and compulsory schemes. The premium caps have not
been adjusted for inflation--another factor contributing to a stagnation in the growth of MOH's
self-generated revenues (measured in real terms). There is also substantial leakage in the system, with
uncollected premiums estimated to be 5-10% of total current GHI revenues.
The contribution of general Government revenues to the health budget, measured in real terms, declined
from US$56 million in 1996 to US$52 million in 1997. Preliminary data for 1998 show a further sharp
reduction to US$39 million.  Even if this downward trend is reversed in the near future, total MOH
revenues are unlikely to rise substantially from 1996-1997 levels given the relatively unfavorable economic
outlook for the WBG economy. At the same time, the recurrent cost implications of donor investments in
public health infrastructure threaten to overwhelm the MOH's capacity to adequately finance the provision
of services. Projections indicate that, by the year 2003, MOH's annual budget will be between US$86
mnillion (low scenario) and US$105 million (high scenario), measured in constant 1998 dollars. The MOH
investment plans for the time period 1997-2001 foresee US$299 million of donor capital investment in
hospitals, primary health care (PHC) centers, and medical equipment--including 117 new PHC centers and
1,272 new hospital beds during this time period. The recurrent costs associated with these investments
alone mean that MOH expenditures would need to increase to US$139 mnillion per year, in constant 1998
dollars, by the year 2003--clearly outstripping MOH's financing capacity.
The private health sector, including non-governmental organizations (NGOs), accounts for 45% of the
PHC clinics and 68% of the hospitals in WBG. Following the Oslo peace agreement, there was substantial
private sector investment in the health sector--a total of between US$80 million and US$100 million.
However, the private health sector now has considerable unused capacity, and growth slowed in 1997 and
1998 as a result of a climate of political and economic instability. The financial viability of private health
- 29 -



care in WBG is adversely affected by Palestinians' limited ability to pay for services; therefore, it remains
vulnerable to future economic downturns.
Cost Savings and Benefits Analysis. Given the constraints on health sector financing described above,
coupled with increasing MOH conmmitrnents in terms of recurrent operational costs, the principal challenge
facing MOH is to make more efficient use of its scarce resources by reducing unnecessary expendIitures and
achieving cost savings wherever possible. As Table 4 dernonstrates, the project is designed to achieve cost
savings, while at the same time improving the quality of services and, as Table 3 indicates, rminimnizing
recurring cost increases. In the final analysis, the cost savings of the project are expected to otitweigh its
investment costs and any anticipated recurring costs.
Table 3. Potential Cost Savings and Indirect Benefits Resulting from Project
Component/       Indicators                Estimated Cost Savings and    Comments/
Subcomponent  _Health Benefits                                           Assumptions
Primary Health   Use of hospital emnergency  Increase in use of PHC instead   Based on replacement of 41.0
Upgrading of     room (ER) instead of PHC   of overcrowded hospital ERs:   PHCs currently operating
PHC Network.   facilities                  estimated average savings of    at 6,000 visits/year apiece:
Cost ofdlyeiUS$3/case would translate to   realizing 2,000 visit/year
osulti ofd laye   os      total savings of              increase per facility would.
resulting from lack of    US$240,000/year               translate to additional
80,000 PHC visits/year.
Indirect health benefits:
improvernent in early detection
and screening, preventive care
Health           Percent of beneficiaries  15% reduction in unpaid       The indirect b -.nefits,
Management       with delinquent payments   premiums--estimated cost     particularly those related lto
Information      Nb                        saving of US$200,000/year in   productivity, ,.re difficult
System                   of socalas        West Bank, and possibly       quantify, and l ierefore
(HMIS)/GHI       certification from Ministry   US$150,000 in Gaza        necessitate cle r and
subcornponent    of Soical Affairs (MOSA)                                explicit assumrptions.
Indirect benefits:            Development (if tools and
Clinical         Productivity of PHC staff  improved targeting of public    methods for mtrasuring cost
Comnponent       at which CIS is           subsidies to needy households;  savings would be useful nol.
implemented               patient satisfaction; and     only for WBG but for
productivity of clinic health  other developii g countries
workers                       as well.
- 30 -



Quality and     Based on cost analysis of   Estimated 5% per year savings  Difficult to quantify
Efficiency--    clinical procedure/health    per clinical procedure for  benefits in monetary terms.
Strengthening   area selected for quality    selected interventions based on  Costs may actually increase
QIP Unit        improvement, (e.g.,      documented cost savings      due to added resources
reductions in: number of   achieved through QI in other   required to achieve quality
unnecessary procedures;    countries                 improvements; however,
wastage of drugs and        .                         these would be offset by
medical supplies; incidence  rndrct hl benefis:       benefits of improved
of nosocomial infection,    reduction in unnecessary and    clinical outcomes. Cost
etc.)                    .mprovem es i                savings can be achieved for
unprovements in health      some interventions (e.g.,
outcomes and patient        where overuse of drugs
satisfaction                could have had harmful
effects).
Drug            MOH expenditures on       Minimum 5% reduction in     Reduction could be
Rationalization   pharmaceuticals         MOH drug expenditures by    substantially higher if the
Program (DRP)                             2002 as a result of improved    parallel efforts of the DRP
Data from survey on      prescribing practices, with  are effective.
prescribing patterns     estimated savings of
US$900,000/year
Quality and     Cost per case, based on   5% reduction for each       Potential savings could be
Efficiency--    diagnostic and treatment    diagnostic and treatment  higher, but might be limited
Treatment       category.                 category analyzed (50% of   by external factors such as
Abroad          Total MOH expenditures   cases), with estimated savings   cases referred from sources
for treatment abroad cases. US$450,000 of per year.   outside of MOH.
- 31 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Project Costs
(a) Investment Costs              3.74    3.88    0.67    8.29
(b) Recurent Costs                0.15    0.23    0.18    0.56    0.20    0.21    0.23
Total   3.89   4.11    0.85    8.85    0.20    0.21    0.23
Financing Sources (Amounts)
(a) Trust Fund for Gaza and
West Bank (TFGWB)            3.44    3,65    0.81    0.00
(b) Palestinian Authority (PA)    0.45   046    0.04    0.95    0.20    0.21    0.23
Total   3.89   4.11   0.85    8.85    0.20    0.21    0.23
Financing Sources
(% of Total Project Costs)
(a) Trust Fun for Gaza and
West Bank (TFGWB)            89%    89%    95%       0%
(b) Palestinian Authority (PA)    11%    11%      5%    11%   100%   100%   J!%
Totall   100%   1C0%   100    100%   100%   1000%   i00%
Note: Figures may not add up due to rounding.
- 32 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Procurement
The Trust Fund Credit will finance civil works, goods, consultant services, and training. Procurement
would be in accordance with IDA Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,"
January 1995 (revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); as well as those
for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," January 1997 (revised
September 1997 and January 1999).
All procurement will be managed by the Project Implementing Unit (PIU), which will comprise staff from
the existing Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of MOH, as well as four professional staff and two support
staff to be recruited. Under the Education & Health Rehabilitation Project (EHRP), the PCU was involved
as a coordinating unit under the supervision of the Palestinian Economic Council for Development and
Reconstruction (PECDAR), which was responsible for all major civil works contracts. The PCU
coordinated all health sector-related activities for EHRP and was responsible for the procurement of
smaller works, goods, and consulting services. Its performance was, and continues to be, satisfactory.
Recently, PCU staff participated in procurement and financial management training workshops conducted
by senior World Bank staff.
The Procurement Capacity Assessment conducted during appraisal examined the following aspects of
project management: legal; procurement management; organization of the implementing agency (the PCU);
record keeping; staffing; general procurement environment; and the private sector (see PIP file for the
Procurement Capacity Assessment Report). The assessment confirmed that the PCU has the capacity to
carry out the procurement activities under this project. In addition, the assessment also found that, in
general, the existing procurement methods, procedures, legal framework, and overall environment are
satisfactory. Procurement reporting formats were discussed and agreed upon during appraisal, as was the
timing of recruiting additional staff for the PIU. In addition, it was agreed that a Management Information
System (MIS) would be specially designed and developed for the project, and PIU staff trained in its use.
This project MIS would provide the PIU with a management tool for the systematic tracking and recording
of financial transactions and procurement activities, as well as one that could produce the necessary Project
Management Reports (PMRs) to be submitted quarterly to the Administrator for disbursement under Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) procedures. The design and installation of the system would be
undertaken before negotiations, and the system is expected to be operational before Credit effectiveness.
These actions are described in Annex 6(c) below.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement arrangements are described below and sunmarized in Table Al. A detailed procurement plan
by year and package has been prepared, and the information will serve as the basis for PMRs for
disbursement under LACI procedures. The procurement sections of the PMRs have already been designed
for the project in consultation with the PIU.
Civil Works (US$4.22 million). Works would include: the replacement of health clinics; the construction
of a new Health Information Center (HIC); and minor upgrading and cabling work related to information
technology installations. With the exception of the five Gaza clinics ranging from US$133,000 (the two
smaller ones) to US$266,000 (the three larger ones), the remaining 35 clinics would be in West Bank, with
an average cost of about US$86,000 each. Grouping these in larger packages suitable for International
- 33 -



Competitive Bidding (ICB) may not be feasible because of phasing and geographical dispersion; therefore,
they would be awarded under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts under
US$10,000 (for computer cabling and other upgrading works) would be awarded under simplified local
procedures, as defined in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). These works would be procured under the
following procedures:
*  National Competitive Bidding (US$4.0 million).  Contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 and above would be awarded in accordance with NCB procedures provide i 'hat the
bidding documents are acceptable to the Admrinistrator.
*  Simplified NCB (US$0.22 million).  Contracts below US$10,000 would be awaided in
accordance with Simplified NCB procedures provided that the bidding documents are acceptable to
the Administrator. Bidding opportunities would be posted in a public space and bids would be
opened publicly with award to the lowest evaluated bidder.
Goods (US$1.82 million). Goods would include: medical equipment; miscellaneous equipment (office
machines, etc.); computers; books; journals; software; and furniture. These goods would be procured
under the following procedures:
3  International Competitive Bidding (US$0.81 million). Contracts estimated at US$200,000 or
more would be awarded according to ICB procedures. Contracts falling under this category are
mainly for medical equipment.
*  National Competitive Bidding (US$0.65 million).  Smaller contracts, estimnated between
US$100,000 and US$200,000, would be awarded according to NCB procedures provideci that the
bidding documents are acceptable to the Administrator.
e International and National Shopping (ISIN.) (US$0.30 million). Contracts below US<ii 100,000
would be awarded according to IS procedures by obtaining competitive price quotations from at
least three suppliers in two different countries. NS procedures may be used instead if t. desired
goods are available at competitive prices from at least two sources in WBG.
3  Direct Contracting (DC) (US$0.06 million). Books, journals, and computer software 'iiojld be
procured directly from the publishers/developers or their authorized distributors.
Consultant Services (US$1.33 million). Services to be contracted include short-term and li:ng-term
international and national technical specialists, architects/engineers, trainers, and finamcial auditing
specialists. These services would be procured under the following procedures in confonnity w tk. IDA
guidelines:
*   Quality- and Cost-based Selection (QCBS). Contracts estimated at US$100,000 or mole would
be awarded according to QCBS procedures. These would include the specialized information
technology contracts and the larger design and supervision contracts.
*  Least Cost Selection (LCS).  Contract design and supervision services estimated al below
US$100,000 would be awarded according to LCS procedures.
*   Consultant Qualifications (CQ). Contracts for technical and financial services from internalfional
and national specialists would be awarded in accordance with CQ selection procedures.
*  Single Source (SS) Selection.  In instances where narrow specialization does nct offer
alternatives, SS selection may be employed for contracts with individuals not e): ,ecding
- 34 -



US$10,00.
Training Activities (US$0.18 million). Workshops (US$0.15 million) and study visits (US$0.03 million)
have been estimated on the basis of unit cost per trainee, which includes: training fees; handouts, training
materials, or supplies (where applicable); and travel and daily subsistence allowances. Trainers or
coordinators would be recruited following CQ procedures in conformity with IDA guidelines.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category            IC,B        Prcurement Method                 N.tBF.       Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00           4.00            0.22           0.00           4.22
(0.00)         (3.40)         (0.19)          (0.00)         (3.59)
2. Goods                             0.81            0.65           0.36           0.00            1.82
(0.71)         (0.57)         (0.32)          (0.00)         (1.60)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           1.33           0.00            1.33
Consultants services,               (0.00)          (0.00)         (1.33)          (0.00)         (1.33)
including design and
supervision
4. Training                          0.00            0.00           0.18           0.00            0.18
Workshops and study visits          (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.18)          (0.00)         (0.18)
5. Project management (PIU           0.00-           0.00           0.64           0.00            0.64
staff salaries)                     (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.64)          (0.00)         (0.64)
6. Operational support for           0.00            0.00           0.66           0.00            0.66
incremental recurrent costs         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.56)          (0.00)         (0.56)
Total                             0.81            4.65           3.39           0.00            8.85
___________________________     (0.71)          (3.97)         (3.22)    J    (0.00)          (7.90)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project rnanagement office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to: (i) management of the project; and (ii) operation of new institutions/facilities,
excluding replaced health clinics.
- 35 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
A. Firms           0.30      0.00      0.00       0.35      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.65
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.65)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.58      0.10      0.00       0.68
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.58)    (0.10)  _0.00)    (0.68)
Total   0.30      0.00      0.00      0.35      0.58       0.10      0.00      ] .33
(0.30)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.35)    (0.58)    (0.10)    '0.00)     1 1.33)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guide ines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
- 36 -



Pnor review thresholds (Table B)
Thresholds for procurement methods and Bank prior review are shown in Table B. All of the following
contracts and documents for works, goods, and services would be subject to prior review:
* Contracts for goods exceeding US$200,000 (ICB);
* Contracts for goods such as books, journals, and com:puter software (DC);
*   Contracts for works exceeding US$100,000 (NCB);
*   Contracts for consulting services with firms exceeding US$100,000;
* Contracts for consulting services with individuals exceeding US$50,000;
* Contracts for consulting services with individuals (SS);
* Contracts for training exceeding US$25,000;
* Terms of Reference (TORs) and estimates for consulting services and training programs; and
* The first of the following contracts: IS; NS (works and goods); LCS; CQ (consulting services).
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts'Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior R-view
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Method               '(VS$ millons)
1. Works                        >100              National Competitive     All contracts exceeding
Bidding (Advertised in 2  US$0.1 million (NCB)
widely-distributed local
newspapers)
<10           Simplified NCB (posted in a  The first Simplified NCB
public area)              contract
- 37 -



2. Goods                         >200            International Competitive    All contracts exceeding
Bidding (Advertised in the    US$0.2 million (I(E)
UN Development Business)
100-200            National Competitive      First NCB contrazt
Bidding (Advertised in 2
widely-distributed local
newspapers)
50-100          International and National   First National Shopping
Shopping                 co:ntract
(Solicitation of 3 quotes)
Direct Contracting:       All DC contracts
Intellectual property--books,
journals, and software--
obtainable from a single
source and of a total value
that does not exceed
US$60,000
3. Services
Firms:                           >100                    QCBS              All contracts with firrrrs
exceeding US$0.1 mnillion
(QCBS)
<100                     LCS                First 1 CS contracil
Individuals:
>50                      CQ                 All cc ltracts with
individtals exceeding
US$'.0 5 million
I0<x<50                  CQ, SS               First ("Q contract
<10                      Ss                 All S;contracts
.  All TOR ard cost estinates
- 38 -



4. Training
Workshops and study            >25,000                    CQ                Contracts for training
visits                                                                      exceeding US$0.025
million
All training programs
(workshops and study
visits)
All TOR and cost estimates
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    n/a
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 (one every 4 months during
year 1) months (includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
This frequency is based on the high competence of the existing PRU staff in dealing with procurement, as
well as on the presence and expected assistance of RM staff.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 39 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The Trust Fund Credit of US$7.9 million would be disbursed over a 3.5-year period in accoreance with
Table C. All project activities are expected to be completed by December 31, 2002, and the credit would
close on June 30, 2003. The relatively short implementation and disbursement period is feasible due to the
modest scope of the project. It also takes into account the current performance of the EBRP, which was
completed and fully disbursed within its scheduled three-year time period. The closing date of the EHRP
has been extended only because of components financed by other donors, for which fiundinp. was not
secured on schedule.
Bank Reporting and Disbursement Arrangements
PMR-based Reporting SystemL The project would develop a management and reporting system tliat would
generate quarterly PMRs to be used for the replenishment of the Special Account (SA). A draft model
PMR, based on the LACI Implementation Handbook and on the project's design, has been develop:ed and is
available in the PIP. The PIU would form a Task Force--comprising the financial, procurement, ;md other
PIU technical staff--that would define project information needs, flow, formats, and frequency of inputs
from various PIU sections in order to enable production of the PMRs in a timely manner. The l lsk force
would define inputs and outputs to the PMR based on the draft model developed during appraisal.
The PMR comprises three sections:
(i) Financial Statements, which provides the following: information on sources and uses of finds by
loan category and project activity; forecasts of expenditure; amount of disbursement requested; and
reconciliation of the SA;
(ii) Project Progress Report which provides information on project implernentation progress--in
physical and financial terms--using monitoring indicators.  Such information would inc:lude the
identification of deviations from the original plan and explanations for such deviations; and
(iii) Procurement Management Reports, which provides reports on the status of procurement and
contracts subject to the Bank's prior review, as well as post-review contracts above US$100,0()0.
A software consultant would be hired under the PHRD grant to work with the above-mentionied Ta!;k Force
to select and adapt a suitable software package, and then train the PIU staff in the use of the softi'vare. A
draft PMR, generated by the new software, should be submitted to the Bank by October 1]5, 1999. It is
estimated that the PIlJ will be certified for PMR-based disbursements by the end of November 1999.
In the interim period prior to the implementation of the PMR-based system, disbursements vi'ould be
made against SOEs and full documentation in accordance with traditional withdrawal pro. edures.
PMR-based disbursements would commence only after certification that an adequate financial man gement
system is in place, one that is capable of producing the required PMRs.
Documentation for Withdrawals. Withdrawal applications for contracts for goods valued at mcre than
US$200,000; for works of more than US$100,000; and for consulting services of more than US$ 100,000
for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals, would be presented with full documentation (in English) for
disbursement.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Lxpendr QatALLo inSN                             t
1. Civil works                              3.40                           85
2. Goods                                    1.55              100 FE, 100 ex-factory, 85 local
- 40 -



3. Consultant services                     1.83                         100
4. Training                                0.13                         100
5. Incremnental recurrent costs /a         0.55                          85
6. Refunding of PPF                        0.20
7. Unallocated                             0.24
Total Project Costs                        7.90          _
Total                                      7.90
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Disbursements for contracts not governed by the above paragraph would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). During negotiations, assurances would be sought that supporting
documentation would be maintained by the PIU and be made available for review by members of Bank
supervision missions. Documentation relating to SOEs would be retained for up to one year after the fnal
withdrawal from the credit.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would establish a Special
Account (SA) in a comnmercial bank, to be operated by the PIU under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Trust Fund Administrator. In the interim period prior to LACI certification, the Administrator
would, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$0.8 million to the SA. Initially, the allocation
would be limited to US$0.4 million, while the full allocation could be claimed when disbursements reach
US$1.5 million. The PIU would submit replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis. The
replenishment applications would be supported by a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation of the
SA against the bank records. The minimum amount for applications for direct payment and for special
commitments would be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA. Replenishment of the SA would
follow Bank procedures. Agreement on the above provisions would be sought at negotiations.
Following full implementation of the action plan described in Annex 6(c), the Administrator would review
the financial managernent arrangements in order to evaluate the PIU's capacity to undertake PMR-based
disbursements.  Once the Administrator provides formal certification to that effect, PMR-based
disbursements can begin. An advance for the equivalent of six months' expenditures would be transferred
to the SA upon receipt by the Administrator of a cash forecast for the following six months. Disbursement
applications would be prepared and submitted by the PIU to the Admninistrator along with the quarterly
PMRs.
Project Preparation Facility (PPF). To speed up the preparation of the project, a PPF in the amount of
US$200,000 is proposed. Disbursements under the PPF would be made against traditional Bank
disbursement methods, as described above. The amount in the SA would initially be US$100,000 (50% of
the PPF).
For all the above procedures, each disbursement application would be signed by two authorized
representatives. Authorized signatories' names and the corresponding specimens of their signatures would
be submitted with the first withdrawal application to the Admninistrator through MOH.
Project Account for Counterpart Funding and Disbursement
The project would open a bank account for the counterpart funding from the PA for both the Value Added
-41 -



Tax compensation and the part of the expenditures being financed by the PA (incremental recurrent costs).
The total counterpart funds needed for the project amount to US$950,000 for the three-year project period.
Estirnated disbursements are US$438,000 (of which US$4 11,000 are taxes) for the first year, US$472,000
(of which US$432,000 are taxes) for the second year, and US$40,000 (of which US$8,000 are taxes) for
the third year. The PIU would open an account for this counterpart funding, in which the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) would deposit US$195,000, which is the estimated counterpart funding cash recluirements
for the first six months. The PIU would request periodic replenishment of the account, in the sarae manner
as for the Trust Fund Credit's SA, based on cash use at the end of each quarter and the forecast for the
following two quarters. This information should be provided in the PMR, as shown in statement L-D of the
report. Statements 1 -E, 1 -F 1, and 1 -F2 can also be adapted for PA funding.
Accounts and Audits. The PIU would prepare annual financial statements in accordance with
internationally-recognized accounting practices. Annual audits would be conducted in accordance with
International Auditing Standards by an external independent auditor acceptable to the Administrator.
These audits would be communicated to the Administrator within five months of the closing of each fiscal
year.  The audit report should follow the Administrator's auditing requirements and cover financial
statements, reconciliation and use of the SA, and the project's fixed assets. The auditor would then give
clear opinions on these aspects in the form of a management letter. A sample of audit TOR acc:plable to
the Administrator was furnished to the PIU and is available in the PIP file. The TOR should be prepared,
and a list of auditors acceptable to the Administrato:r should be submitted for clearance, before Board
presentation. The auditors should be appointed by October 16, 1999.
/a: Increnental operational costs include salaries, operation, and naintenance and repair for new institutions only.
ANNEX 6(a): Financial Management Assessment
The project financial managernent arrangements have been reviewed in order to assess the project's
compliance with Bank financial policies, particularly with regard to LACI guidelines and possible
PMR-based disbursements.
PART I: Assessment of the Existing Financial Management Arrangements
The Implementation Unit
The current PCU has been coordinating EHRP activities under the supervision of PECDAR (the Borrower)
since 1995. The PCU reports directly to the Minister of Health and comprises six staff members. The
EHRP is managed from two office locations: a main office in Gaza and a branch at Nablus (Wes" flank).
The staff includes a director, financial officer, and procurement officer in Gaza; and two engi:ieers in
charge of consultants and civil works in West Bank. Some project components (i.e., QIP), are implemented
by MOH teams in coordination with the PCU and under the supervision of PECDAR.
PECDAR was established by decree of the Executive Committee of the Palestine Liberation Organiization.
Essentially, it is the central Palestinian institution for managing the process of reconstructCoii and
development in WBG during the transition period. PECDAR's Board of Governors consists of Fourteen
members. It has an office for administration and finance and four functional offices: (i) Economic Policy
Formulation; (ii) Technical Assistance and Training; (iii) NGOs and Special Programs; and (iv) Project
Monitoring Office (PMO). Currently, PECDAR is located near Ramallah and maintains an office i-L Gaza.
Current Financial Management Function at the PCU
Accounting Practices & Internal Control
42 -



The financial management function is performed at two levels. At the level of the PCU, project
expenditures are reviewed, authorized for payment, and recorded. Payment orders for expenditures below
US$1,000 are executed by the PCU through the use of a sub-account there, while payment orders for
amounts above US$1,000 are prepared and sent to PECDAR's finance department for execution from the
SA. All original documentation is kept by PECDAR, which then reviews the documentation and work
progress, and executes the payment order. PECDAR prepares and submits, along with all supporting
documentation, withdrawal applications to the Administrator, and maintains the records for the SA. Its
finance department controls the accounting records and financial transactions at the PCU before issuing
any payment through a set of procedures and regulations with which the PCU must comply. These
procedures and regulations follow the Bank's procurement policies and regulations. The authorization of
payment thresholds are stringent, and, for amounts above US$10,000, signatures are required at the highest
level of authority; namely those of the Chairman of the PA and the Director of PECDAR. Such an
authorization structure makes it cumbersome and lengthy to authorize payments: the low threshold leads to
too many transactions requiring approval at the highest level of the PA, and places high demand on the
scarce time of authorities at these levels.
Project accounting is maintained on a modified cash basis at the two levels of project implementation:
PECDAR and the PCU. The PCU maintains accounting records based on copies of all the financial
transactions that are paid by the PCU and/or PECDAR, while PECDAR also maintains its own accounting
records for the project based on the original documentation submitted to PECDAR by the PCU and those
cleared directly by PECDAR. Originals of all documentation are kept at PECDAR for expenditures
eligible for the SOE procedure, or are sent to the Administrator for replenishment for expenditures that
exceed the SOE thresholds. The PCU uses an accounting software to make journal entries, keeps updated
books of accounts, and produces all the necessary accounting records. It also uses a spreadsheet
application, which is linked to the accounting software, that produces management reports containing
information on the project's progress and financial situation.
A review, on a test basis, by the Bank mission of the accounting records, software used, payment
authorization procedures, and petty cash disbursements revealed that accounting practices are conducted
according to generally-accepted accounting principles, and that proper internal control is in place.
Moreover, the financial officer uses a set of internal control procedures and regulations, required by
PECDAR, that integrates Bank procurement requirements.
However, given the limnited number of staff in the accounting seciion, the financial officer is in charge of all
tasks, from the preparation of payment requests to their control and recording in the accounts. While this
does not constitute a problem for payments above US$1,000 made directly by PECDAR--where further
control is performed--it does present a risk when payments are below US$1,000 and the full transaction
cycle occurs within the PCU. However, as explained above, this is mitigated by the fact that issued checks,
whether at PECDAR or the PCU, are subject to two signatures.
Budgetary Control process
Currently, there is no budgetary process being performed at the project level, and there is no linkage
between physical and financial reporting. Consequently, reporting is not used optimally for decision
making and feedback in the budgeting process. The HSDP receives monthly reports from the various
implementing units on the status of the implementation of the program's financial and physical activities.
Audit Arrangements
Internal Audit. The internal audit function is currently being performed by PECDAR's internal audit
department. While most of the project coordination and implementation is done at the PCU level, the
- 43 -



accounting system and the internal procedures at the PCU are not being audited by PECDAR's internal
auditor. The only control performed by PECDAR is on the documentation they receive for paymtents.
Annual External Audit of the Project. The EHRP is audited annually by an external auditor appointed
by PECDAR. However, the auditor does not review the documentation, accounting, or internal control of
the PCU. The financial policies of the Administrator require that annual audits be performed fc- the entire
project. The audit should encompass the review cf financial statements, internal control s,'stems and
procedures, and the SA and SOEs; to be followed by the issuance of a management letter, whiCh contains
the auditor's opinions. Such an opinion requires that the auditors perform an audit of the PCUT on a test
basis. The auditor does not, however, review the internal controls and systems at the PCU as part of the
overall audit of the project.
The Special Account (SA) under EHIRP
The SA for the ongoing EHRP is being maintained in a commercial bank and managed by PECDAR. In
addition, a sub-account is being maintained at the PCU level for expenditures that do not exceed US$1,000
per payment. The allowable balance of this sub-account is US$20,000, replenished by PECDAR{ from the
SA based on the submission of a detailed SOE and all supporting documentation by the PCU. T ae current
reporting of EHRP does not meet the LACI reporting requirements. The project disburses based upon
traditional Bank disbursement procedures involving SOEs and SA replenishment. The SA is  managed
directly by PECDAR. Withdrawal applications are prepared by PECDAR and sent to the Adminm.strator.
The current reporting at the PCU is not geared toward the generation of PMRs, which is not a requirement
of EHRP.
PART II: The Financial Management Arrangements for the Health System Development Project
(HSDP)
Institutional Arrangements
In an effort to increase management capacity at MO01 for the management and implementation of health
sector projects, the new project would be managed and implemented directly by the PCU. To reflect its
new role as an implementing agency of MOH, the PCU would be renamed Project Implementa ion Unit
(PIU).
The direct management of the project by the PIU aims at: (a) allowing a more effective processing of
disbursements and faster responsiveness of the project rnanagement to project demands from the ficlld level;
and (b) building management capacity at the PIiU, and consequently at MOH.
Currently, the PCU implements a number of activities financed by other donors. Once establishi. d as the
PIU, the unit is expected to expand its preject management responsibilities to cover more activities financed
by other donors. It should therefore consider developing a policy of charging an overhead fee, whic:h would
help fnance any additional capacity required due to the increased level of activities.
Despite some of its weaknesses, the Bank's assessment during appraisal has shown that, in ger. ral, the
PCU maintains good accounting records, has in place satisfactory internal controls, and has a :lualified
financial officer. To allow the PIU to remedy the remaining weaknesses, comply with all of the 'inancial
policies of the Administrator, and be eligible for PMR-based disbursement, an action plan has been
discussed and agreed upon between the Bank mission and the project management team. These ac-ions are
described below.
Financial Management Action Plan for PMR-based Disbursement Readiness
-44 -



Additional Capacity at the PIU
It was agreed that the financing structure of the PIUJ would be strengthened by the recruitment of two
assistant finance officers for the Gaza and West Bank PIU offices, which would allow for the segregation
of duties and better internal control at the P1U. Upon their recruitment, the financial officer would be in
charge of the control and supervision of the financial function, while the assistant accountant in the Gaza
office would be responsible for recording, documenting, and reporting on all financial transactions. A
second assistant finance officer will be posted in the West Bank office who would oversee the financial
transactions going through there, prepare documentation, and submit it for clearance to the PIU. Detailed
TORs for the PIU staff, along with the new organization structure of the PIUJ, are included in the PIP file.
Internal Control Procedures and Regulations
The PIUJ would hire a consultant who, in addition to the financial officer, would review the current
operational procedures in order to update them based on the needs of the PILJ. Moreover, the accounting
system should be able to provide accurate, reliable, and timely information on the project's funding sources
and its use of funds for the entire project, as well as for each individual component and sub-component of
the project. It should also provide a regular reconciliation of the Credit's SA with the bank records. In
order to allow for better and faster monitoring of financial, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation
output indicators, a software package capable of generating the required information and reports would be
installed at the PIU.
The fmancial officer, along with the consultant, would prepare a financial management manual that
describes the various operations of the project's financial management system. The manual would cover
the following: (i) the flow of funds and levels of authorization; (ii) the financial and accounting policies
(including setting an overhead charge policy); (iii) the accounting system and internal control mechanisms
(including the documentation of the accounting and reporting software); (iv) the Chart of Accounts
adapted to the project; (v) financial reporting (including formats of financial management reports, the
reporting required from each level, and the frequency of each report); (vi) auditing arrangements; (vii)
budgeting; and (viii) organization and staffmg for financial management functions. A number of these
elements of the financial management system have already been developed and are included in the PIP file.
ANNEX 6(b): LACI Certification
Report on the Assessment of the PMR-based Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-based Disbursements at Appraisal Stage
Part I: Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial managernent system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate fnancial management system as required by the
Administrator under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implernenting agency, was based on the Bank guidelines for
"Review of Financial Management System," and focused on the assessment of the project accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor, and the
format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support
of Withdrawal applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in
my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial rnanagement system that could
-45 -



provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project as required
by the Admrinistrator for PMR-based disbursements.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious enough to
withhold certification. I have detailed in the attachient the inadequacies that I found in the system4 and
included an action plan for remedying the situation that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed by:
Financial Management                    1
Specialist                  _   _             __v __ t_.
(FMS-OPR)                   Rafika. ChaVouali, MNSHD                 Date
Part II: Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project, including the format
and content of the section on Project Management Reports (PMRs) on procurement monitor:ng. The
objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by
the project confirms to the Bank guidelines for procurement in investment projects. My review wias based
on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review
Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I certify that the project has in place a procurement'contract management system that can provide the
appropriate data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section 3) as required by the
Administrator.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious eriough to
withhold certification. I have detailed these inadequacies in the attachment, and included an actioin plan for
remedying the situation that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed by:                  t\I__               /       _       U 71
Procurement Specialist    V                     _       _
Vasilios C. Demetriou, MNSHD             Date
Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project system for monitoring physical implementation progress,, incli blig its
inonitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the appropriate data on
physical progress (PMR - section 2) as required by the Administrator.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious eriough to
withhold certification. I have detailed these inadequacies in the attachment, and included an action Lman for
remedying the situation that was agreed upon witthe Borrower..
Signed by:                          /)4f
Task Team Leader                                ________18i
AkikYIaeda, M4SHI)                       Date
46 -



ANNEX 6(c): Action Plan for Establishing Project Management Report and Financial Management
Systems
Establishment of the Project Management Structure
*  By November 1, 1999 - Project Coordination Committee created.
*  By November 1, 1999 - Quality Improvement Advisory Committee created.
* By January 15, 2000 - A financial assistant/accountant recruited.
*  By January 15, 2000 - Additional PIU staff recruited.
Financial Management Arrangements
* By October 15, 1999 - An accounting firm/consultant will have been hired who will update the
financial and procurement regulations and produce an operations manual (assignment to be finalized by
November 30, 1999). A number of these elements of the financial management system have already
been developed and are included in the PIP. The operations manual would include the following:
(a) Flow of funds and levels of authorization;
(b) Financial and accounting policies (including setting a policy on overhead charge);
(c) Accounting system and internal control mechanisms (including documentation of the
accounting and reporting software);
(d) Chart of Accounts adapted to the project;
(e) Financial reporting (including formats of financial management reports, the reporting required
from each level, and the frequency of each report);
(f) Auditing arrangements;
(g) Expenditure forecasting and budgeting; and
(h) Appropriate organization and delineation of staff responsibilities for sound financial
management.
a  By October 31, 1999 - A software specialist will have been hired who will assist in the selection and
adaptation of an accounting and reporting software that integrates fnancial, progress (output
monitoring), and procurement reports into a PMR based on the model developed during appraisal.
Assignment should be finalized by December 15, 1999.
* By November 15, 1999 - An external, independent auditing firm acceptable to the Administrator will
have been hired which will audit the accounts for the first year of project operations. The auditors
would also be assigned the review of the internal control system being developed to verify compliance
with the financial and procurement reporting requiremnents of the Administrator.
*  By November 30, 1999 - A Special Account in US Dollars will have been opened for the TF credit
funding, and another will have been opened at a conumercial bank for the PA counterpart funding.
*  By December 15, 1999 - A test PMR will have been generated for submission to the Administrator.
*  By December 31, 1999 - An interim management letter will have been issued by the auditors on the
internal financial control system, which will include recommendations for improving the system.
*  By January 10, 2000 - The names and the authenticated specimen signatures of the designated
Ministry of Health signatories authorized to sign withdrawal applications against the TF credit will
have been submitted to the Administrator.
* By February 27, 2000 - Certification will have been granted by the Administrator that the financial
and procurement management systems are in place and ready for disbursement.
- 47 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Project~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I; Scedl       Panned        _A    c00   l 00000Tktual, 0
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  15                       10            __     __
First Bank mission (identification)      09/15/98                    10/15/98
Appraisal mission departure              09/01/99                    06/01/99
Negotiations                             09/27/99                    09/27/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness            01/31/2000                  __A
Prepared by:
Ministry of Health
Preparation assistance:
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant, Swedish Trust Fund, Danish Trust Fund, Portuguese Trust 1Fund,
and Innovations Marketplace "Harnessing Private Sector for Health Services."
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Na-e                                     Speciality
Mohammed Al-Sheikh                Legal Counsel
George N. Awwad                   Projects Officer
Rafika Chaouali                   Financial Management Specialist
Sophie Claudet                    Institutional Development Specialist
Vasilios Demetriou                Implementation Specialist
Celine Gavach                     Program Assistant
Hans Jurgen Gruss                 Chief Counsel
Claudine Kader                    Team Assistant
Akiko Maeda                       Health Econonmist
Claire Voltaire                   Operations Analyst
Sean Card                         E,ditor
- 48 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Project Technical Specifications
(a) Component 1: Upgrading Primary Health Care Network
(b) Component 2: Health Management Information System
(c) Component 3: Quality and Efficiency Improvement
(d) Schedules of accommodation for PHC facilities
(e) Health Insurance Information System Admninistration
(f) Project Proposals for the Pharmaceutical Sector:
*  Development of Standard Diagnostic, Treatment, and Referral Protocols
*   Public Information on Rational Use of Drugs
*   Study on Prescribing Practices and Patient Compliance
2. Project Cost Tables
(a) Summary Tables - Financing, Expenditures, Procurement
(b) Detailed Tables - Nos. 1-10
(c) Unit Costs (assumptions for consultants, training)
3. Project Implementation
(a) Financial Management Action Plan (Pre-implementation)
(b) Project Implementation Schedule
4. Project Procurement Plan
(a) Procurement Database (electronic)
(b) Detailed First-Year Procurement Plan
(c) Bidding procedures and contract forms to be used
5. Project Management
(a) Organizational Structure - Ministry of Health and Project Coordinating Committee
(b) Project Implementation Unit - Organization, Staffing, and Terms of Reference
(c) Project Management Report - Template
(d) Project Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. MOH/WHO/World Bank: West Bank and Gaza: Medium-term Strategy for the Health Sector,
World Bank, Washington, D. C., 1998.
2. "West Bank and Gaza: Recurrent Expenditure Study for the Ministry of Health," Hugh Waters
and Mutasem Hamdan, March 1999.
3. "Private Sector Assessment of the West Bank and Gaza Health Sector." Report prepared for the
- 49 -



Innovations Marketplace: Harnessing Private Sector to Improve Health System Performance, July
1999.
4. "Health System Development Project - West Bank and Gaza: Social Impact Assessment," Policy
Research Institute, July 1999.
5. "West Bank and Gaza: Health Management Information Systems," Dennis Streveler, Apri. 1999.
6. West Bank and Gaza: Health Infrastructure Planning," Dick Lindberg, November 1998.
7. Procurement Assessment Report and Sunmary, Vasilios Demetriou, June 1999
C. Other
1. Strengthening Primary Health Care in the PSRAs, MOH/WHO/EU Project Proposal, 1999
2. Rehabilitation and Rationalization of Primary Health Care in the West Bank Attachment to the
MOH/WHO/EU Project Proposal, 1999.
3. Quality Improvement Project Annual Progress Report, Education & Health Rehabilitation IProject,
1998.
*Including electronic files
- 50 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Orginal Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements'
Project ID     FY   Borrower                     Purpose                                IBRO          IDA      Cancel,   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 3
GZ-SF-53985    1999 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    BETHLEHEM 2000                          25.00        0.00        0.00       20.75      6.04      0.00
GZ-SF-58684     1999 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT II                8.00        0.00        0.00        6.50      1.50      0.00
GZ-SF-40503     1996 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    GAZA INDUSTRIAL EST.                   11.00        0.00        1.00        9.04      2.75      0.00
GZ-SF-47067    1998 WELFARE ASSOCIATION           PALESTINIAN NGO PROJECT                14.55        0.00        0.00       10.76     -0.99      1.48
GZ-SF-40505     1997 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    WATER& SAN. SERV./GAZA                 25.00        0.00        0.00        7.46      7.09      0.00
GZ-SF-43338     1997 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    HOUSING                                25.00        0.00        0.00       24.95      7.25      0.00
GZ-SF-47065     1997 PECDAR                       MICROENTERPRISES-IFC                    5.00        0.00        0.00        4.29      2.09      0.79
GZ-SF-47110    1997 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT                   10.00        0.00        0.00        0.32      0.66      0.00
GZ-SF-47111     1997 PLO FOR BENEFIT OF THE PA    LEGAL DEVELOPMENT                       5.50        0.00        0.00        4.43      3.06      0.00
GZ-SF-49708    1997                               PAL. EXPAT. PROF. PROGRAM               3.00        0.00        0.00        2.85      1.05      0.00
GZ-SF-43339    1996                               MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT                  40.00        0.00        0.00        9.54      2.86      0.00
Total:     172.05        0.00        1.00     100.89     33.36      2.27
Aclive         Closed
Projects       Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):          98.37          124.45         222.82
of which has been repaid:          0.00           0.00            0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:         212.90          127.11         340.01
Amount sold:          0.00            0.00            0.00
of which repaid:         0.00           0.00            0.00
Total Undisbursed:        100.89            2.93         103.82
Actual disbursements to date minus intended disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
- 51 -



WEST BANK AND GAZA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbuarsed Portfolio
31-Jul-1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval        Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equity   Quas;   Partic
1994               APIB                            0.00     0.00     3.73    0.00     0.00    (.01    3.73      0.00
1997               Arab Bank                       0.00    3.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    0.30)    0.00    C.oo
1997               ComnBank Palestin                0.00    1.50     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.23     0.00     0.00
1997               Jordan National                 0.00     3.00     0.00    0.00     0.00   080      0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Arab Concret                0.80     0.00     0.00    0.00     0.47    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Nabahin                     0.50    0.00      0.00    0.00     0.50    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               PIECO                            8.00    0.00     1.00    0.00     0.00    0 00     1.00    0.00
1998               PTF                             0.00    0.00    11.90     0.00     0.00    0.00     2.38    0.00
1998               PTF-Mgt Co.                     0.00     0.00     0.20    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.04    0.00
1998               SEF Al-Ayyam                     1.80    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.80    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               SEF Pharmacare                   0.41    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.41     0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               PMHC                            0.00    0.00      4.00    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               PTIC                             8.00    0.00     1.35    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               SEF Cold Storage                 0.20    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0. 30    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         19.71    7.50    22.18    0.00     3.18     1.33    7.15    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00
-52 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
WEST BANK AND GAZA: Health System Development
West   M. East   trower-                                         10/13/98
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     BEank   & North   middle-    -
& Gaza      Africa   income      Development dlamond
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                          2.4       283      2,285                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas metod, USS)                                 2,0O      1,230
GNP lAtias method, US$ billions)                           .-      583      2,818
Average annual growth, 1991.97
Poputation (%)                                           5.5        2.3       1t2 
Laborfofri (XJ                                           3.3        3.2       1.3       GNP           ,                  Gross
6.3  3.2     1,2      per                    ,          rimary
Most recent estimate (latest year available. 1t91-97)                                  capita         '              enrollment
Poverty (% of p0o.pation below national poverty line)     24
Urban population (% of total population)                  70         57        42
Life expeltancy at birth lyears)                          70         r7        E9
Infant mortatity (per 1,000 live births)                  28         48        36
Child matnutrilion f% of children vmde- 5)                 ..        ..         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                    90         71        84
Ititeracy (% of popoulaion ageg 5+)                      16         39        19
Gross primary enroltmerit (% ot schoof-ago populloon)     91         t7       t                 West Bank and Gaza
Male                                                    91       102        11 .Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  92        91        113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1985    1t99        1996      1997
GDP (US$ billions)                              1.0      3.3        3,4       3.3       Economic ratos
Gross dormestic investmentlGOP                 28.8     36.4       34.1      34.1
Exports of goods and servicesfGOP              30.5     17.0       17.5      t7.5                      Trade
Gross domnestic savingsiGDP                   4t1.1     -80       .17,7      -17.7
Gross national savings/GOP                      2.5     1S.9        9.5       9.4
Cufrent account balance/GOP                   -11.0    .47,5      -24.8     -24.r     Domesti
interest paynxentrdGt)P..                                   .         ..         .     Donmestic             ~       Ivsmn
lTot0 debtlGDP                                                                         Savings
Total debt service/exports                       ..
Present vatue of debt/GDP                        ,.
Present value of debttexports .,
indebtedness
1985494     1996     19s9       1997   199S42
laverage annual growth)
GOP                                   7.3      -5.2     -O,8       408                    -      West Bank and Gaza
GNP per capita                        1.1      -9.9     -8.2       -3.7         ..               Lower-middle-incomne group
Exports of goods and services         2.7    -19.8      14.4       -0.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1985    1995       1996      1997       Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
(% of GLDP)       ,1.                                                         5S       3
Agriculture                                    19.7     14.5       16.3       15.9     30
Industry                                       24.9     26.8       24.4       24.2     20
Construction                                 16.9       9.7       9.4        8.8      i_
Services                                       55.4     58.6       59.3      60.0       o      _ _ __,        >         _0
Private consumption                           118.2     94.1       95.8       98.4     10      92   93   94                 n
General government consumption                 12.9     13.9       22.0       19.4               - GDI            *  GOP
rnports of goods and services                  90.2     61.4       69.3      69.3
(average annual growth)                    1985-94      1995       1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and Imports 1%1
Agriculture                                    13.9     -8.5       11.9       -0.8    40
Manufacturing                                   9.7     31.0      -12.4       4.2
Construction                                    9.2      8.3       -3.8       -4.5    20  
Private services                               10.5    -12.7       -8.0        3.0     o    >
Public services                                 4.7      3.6       17.9        3.0     0                  w g 597
Private consumption                             4.3     -0.6       10.6        2.1    |20
General government consumption                  7.1    -24.4       56.4      -12.4
Gross domestic investment                       0.2     11.6       -4.5       -0.8     o
Imports of goods and services                   8.4    -16.9       24.3       -0.8             - Exports          *      Imports
Gross national product                          5.3     -4.4       -2.6        2.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 53



West Banl andf CGaza
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1985     1995       199;      1997       Inflation I%)
Domestic prices                                                                          Inlain %
(% change)
Consumer prices                                289.5      10.1      I11.0       7.6      20
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..    12.6        12.3       7.6      1
Government finance                                                                            \   /
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                                     93    94    95    96    97
Current revenue                                 11.0      15.6       20.0      24.7    .10
Current budget balance                           2.0      -2.0       -2.8      -1.1              -     GDP deflator   -O-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         -0.9
TRADE
rUss millIons)                                 1985      1995       1996      1997       Export and Import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              272      414        450                2.500
n.a.                                                                                   2,000
Manufactures                                     ..       ..         ..         ..    15.o
Total imports (cif)                              668    1,784       2,123                1.000
Fuel and energy                                                                         Boo - ..
Capital goods                                    o.
91   92   93   94   9       6 9
Export PriCe index (1995= 100J                     .         .          .         .             1 92 9          4 9        5 5
Imoort price index (1995=f00)                     ..        ..         ..        ..                  *Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995= 100)                         ..       ..         ..        ..                                        _ .
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                 1985      1995       1996      1997       Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    305      558        598        585       o
Imports of goods and services                    750    2,014      2,369      2,317      *    1
Resource balance                                -445   -1,456      -1,770    -1,732
Net income                                       227      534        469        632
Net current transfers                            108      349        461        276     -15                               I I
Current account balance                         *110      -574      -841       -824     220
Financing items (net)                              ..                             .
Changes in net reserves                           ..        ..         ..         .      30
Memo: ;
Required reserves with PMA (USs millions)         ..       44        184        239
Conversion rate (DEC, localNSS)                  1.2       3.0        3.2       3.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1985     1995       1996      1997
(US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              ..
IBRO                                            ..
IDA                                              ..      23         50       103
Total debt service
IBRD                                             ..
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                 ..      441        548       541
Official creditors                              ..       21         27         54
Private creditors                               ..
Foreign direct investment                                       ..
Portfolio equity                                ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       20         85         69
Disbursements                                   ..       21         27        53
Principal repayments                            ..        0          0         0
Net flows                                        ..      21         27         53
Interest payments                               ..        0          0          0
Net transfers                                   ..       21         27         53
World Bank Resident Mlsslon: West Bank and Gaza                                                                             10/13198
- 54 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Environmental Management Plan Summary
I. Background
A. Environmental Category. The activities supported by the project comprise small-scale subprojects for
the upgrading of health infrastructure. The immediate impact on the environment would be very limited.
Potential adverse environmental impacts (summarized below) are restricted in scope and severity:
*   Dust and noise due to demolition and construction;
*   Encroachment onto private property;
*  Risk of damage to unknown historical and archaeological sites;
*  Dumping of demolition and construction wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil, lubricants,
etc.; and
*  Risk from inadequate handling of medical waste.
These risks can be effectively anticipated in advance of project implementation and addressed by direct
mitigation activities in the design, planning, and construction supervision process. The project is classified
under Environmental Category B in accordance with Bank operational policies, and requires the
preparation of an Environmental Management Plan (EMP).
B. Institutional Structure in Environment and Cultural Heritage. The Palestinian Authority (PA) is
developing institutional capacity for the management of both the environment and cultural heritage in
WBG. The recent consolidation of all agencies working on environmental issues under the umbrella of the
Ministry of Enviromnental Affairs (MOEA) will enable the PA to develop a coherent environmental
strategy. However, MOEA is institutionally weak and will require assistance in building capacity over the
next few years if it is to adequately address all issues under its mandate. Responsibilities for the
management of cultural resources, including historical and archaeological sites and vernacular architecture,
are shared between the Department of Archaeology of the Ministry of Tourism and Antiquities (MOTA)
and the Ministry of Culture (MOC). Both of these organizations will be invited to take an active role in the
planning and implementation of the proposed project.
C. Consultation Process. The use of a site-specific environmental screening process will allow potential
environ- mental concerns to be addressed on a case-by-case basis. Consultations will be held with mayors
and other representatives of the municipalities concerned, as well as with MOEA, MOTA's Department of
Archaeology, MOC, and MOH.
II. Environmental Management Plan
A. Introduction. This EMP has been prepared in order to integrate environmental concerns into the
design and implementation of the proposed project. The EMP would support: (a) EMP training for staff
from the PIU and the technical departments and units within MOH involved in project implementation; (b)
development of Environmental Guidelines for ecological planning and site selection for the construction of
PHC clinics; and (c) the implementation of Environmental Guidelines for the design of health care facilities
and management of waste handling (including demolition and construction debris and medical waste). The
technical staff (civil engineer and architect) within the PIU would be in charge of monitoring and
- 55 -



supervising the implementation of the EMP.
B. EMP Monitoring and Supervision by PIU. The PIU would be responsible for coordinating and
supervising the environmental aspects of the project. The PTU would work closely with MOEA to: (a)
coordinate environmental training for MOH staff, designers, and local contractors; (b) develop
Environmental Guidelines that are in line with Bank standards for the implementation, monitotring, and
evaluation of mitigation measures, and which include standards and procedures for site-screeniing and
design of the health facilities; and (c) conduct periodic site visits in order to monitor adheren:e to the
Environmental Guidelines. The PIU staff would receive training in basic environmental mar agernent
during project implementation (see below).
C Environmental Capacity Building and Training Program. Select MOH and PIU staff would receive
environmental training as an integrated part of the capacity building and training included in the "
Upgrading Primary Health Care Network" component. One of the duties of these staff would then be to
prepare environmental training programs and coordinate the training of other staff and local contractors.
Becausethere exists a lirnited capacity at the present time to undertake such actions within the
recently-established MOEA, the training program would be designed and implemented with assistance (on
a short-term basis) from local and international health facility planners. The training of staff woukl include
one- or two-day seminars on environmental awareness and other specific environmental aspects related to
the design and implementation of small-scale projects for the upgrading of health infrastructure. The
training of local contractors would be provided through one- or two-day workshops focusing oii public
awareness, case studies of enviromnental issues experienced in sirnilar projects, the use of enviromnental
guidelines, the implementation of mitigation measures, and the use of specific procedures in the e rent that
unrecorded archaeological sites are uncovered during construction activities.
D. Site-specific Environmental Screening and Review. As a part of the EMP, project-supported
activities concerming the replacement of substandard PHC clinics would be subjected to a site-specific
environ-mental screening and review process. The MOH and PIU staff, with technical assistarni-e from
international experts, would elaborate upon the screening and review program, which would then be
conducted by the PIU in coordination with MOEA.  This process would minimize site specific
envirom-nental impacts and prevent damage to archaeological and historical sites. All activities couicerring
the evaluation and assessment of cultural properties would be reviewed together with MOTA.'s Del' irtment
of Archaeology andlor the MOC, in accordance with their respective, complementary mandates. The
project would also develop specific procedures in the event that unrecorded archaeological sites are
uncovered during construction activities. The screenirng and review process would use a staniardized
appraisal format that includes, but is not limited to, the review of: (a) current environmental problems (soil
erosion, water supply contamination, etc.) at the sites; (b) potential environmental impacts, if any, due to
the project (demolition and construction waste, medical waste, construction noise and dust, et.-.); (c)
potential impacts on archaeological and historical sites; and (d) potential requirements, if any, for the
involuntary resettlement or temporary relocation of a limited number of project-affected persons during
construction activities.
E. Reporting. Reports would be prepared on each of the environmental reviews, specifying miligation
measures and assigning responsibilities for implementation. The findings and recommendations of the
reports would be discussed with representatives of the cooperating municipalities and, as appropria :e, with
other organizations and neighbors concerned. Any proposal for the permanent involuntary resettlement or
temporary relocation of residents would be reviewed by the Bank to ensure compliance with the prcvisions
of Operational Directive 4.30, "Involuntary Resettlement." The PIU would prepare quarterly :-eports
outlining progress in EMP implemnentation as part of the quarterly Project Managernent Reports (l'MRs).
- 56 -



The EMP reports would highlight environmental issues arising from project-supported activities, the status
of mitigation measures taken, and next steps, if any. The reports would be submitted to MOEA by the
PrU.
F. Supervision. The progress in the implernentation of the EMP would be reviewed periodically by the
Bank, MOEA, MOC, and MOTA's Department of Archaeology, and would be included in regular Bank
supervision reports and the Mid-term Review.
G. EMP Cost Estimate and Time Schedule. The EMP implementation would be financed primarily as
part of the " Upgrading Primary Health Care Network" component, as it is an integral part of the capacity
building, training, design, and supervision of construction. The preparation of the PHC operations manual
would be financed under Component 3: "Improving the Quality and Efficiency of Care." Specifically, the
project would support the following:
* Design and supervision of the construction of the health facilities, including the preparation of
standardized appraisal formats and implementation of site-specific environmental screening,
review, and reporting during the first three years of the project (estimated cost: US$340,000);
* Training in health facility planning and design, as well as in facility maintenance and operation,
including waste management, during the first two years of the project (estimated cost: US$70,000)
; and
* Preparation of Primary Health Care operations manual, to include guidelines on the management of
medical waste, by end of the project (estimated cost: US$70,000).
Ill. Environmental Guidelines
The Environmental Guidelines detail the specific environmental issues to be addressed in the concept,
design, and planming of small-scale projects for the upgrading of health infrastructure. The Guidelines
cover: site evaluation; the handling of demolition and construction debris; the selection of construction
materials and methods that have limited impact on the environment; energy-saving methods; and the
handling of medical and non-medical wastes under project-supported activities. The Guidelines provide a
basis for training and workshops, as well as for the implementation of ecological design and construction.
A. The Site. The best use of the site entails the following: orienting the clinic for the best solar and
climatic advantages (such as effective cross-ventilation during the summer period); gaining the best use of
indoor and outdoor space; and using land formations and vegetation to create cormers of privacy and
protect the site and architecture from climatic extremes. Within the objectives of ecological design, the
site-specific electives can achieve practical, economic, and energy benefits. The following are areas in
which fundamental information would be needed as a basis for an ecologically-sound design:
*   Site-specific daily and seasonal microclimatic projections (temperature, humidity, precipitation);
* Site-specific angles of daily and seasonal solar access and solar flux;
* Site-specific wind patterns and velocities for wind rose development;
* Site-specific influence of neighboring structures and properties;
* Site-specific topographic land survey, covenants, and zoning and building code regulations;
* Site-specific road access, automotive emissions, and projected effect upon outdoor and indoor
space;
* Criteria for the project and how it may be conceived and developed in order to fulfill needs and
desires while maintaining ecological accord;
- 57 -



*   Building design and dimensions that not only address all of the above, but also blend well with the
local architectural atmosphere;
*   Most efficient, energy-conserving, non-polluting earth handling, earth placement, land forming, and
embankments;
* Value of topsoil, prevailing trees, and other vegetation to be saved;
* Data pertinent to the optimization of sky, sun, earth, air, and water energies;
* Field testing information from power lines and other adverse electromagnetic sources;
* In situ local availability and suitability of materials and methods for construction;
* Appropriate manner in which to handle wastes and recycling;
*   Short-term versus long-term flexibility and suitability for project modification and extension;
* Initial and life-cycle cost-benefit evaluations; and
*   Long-term ecological effects and ultimate disposition of the architecture, contents, and systems.
The site-specific screening and review should carefully assess the following issues:
*   Dust and noise due to demolition and construction;
* Encroachment onto private property;
* Risk of damage to unknown historical and archaeological sites;
*   Dumping of demolition and construction wastes and accidental spillage of machine oil, lubricants,
etc.;
* Risk from inadequate handling of medical waste; and
* Potential requirements, if any, for the involuntary resettlement or temporary relocation of a limited
number of project-affected persons during construction activities.
These risks can be effectively screened, reviewed, and assessed in advance of implementation and a ddressed
by direct mitigation activities during the design, planning, and construction supervision process.
B. Architecture. Orientation and location are critical in optimizing the benefit of solar radiation, daylight,
and controlled air movement and thermal efficiency. Architectural climate-responsive forms, surf ces, and
openings require site-specific analysis in order to accord well with microclimatic sun, earth, air, aild water
conditions. A construction-efficient planning module could conserve the use of materials, minimi:  e waste,
and conserve labor. Maximizing the interior volume to exterior surface ratio conserves eni.rgy and
materials. Orientation to the east-to-west: axis can effectively favor solar exposure during the coA  winter
period. Natural cooling is most effectively achieved by providing cross-ventilation of all interior roorns and
spaces. The orientation of architecture and outdoor space in order to avoid street and highw4 y noise,
automotive fumes, and other externalities should be considered.   Finally, avoiding the use of
energy-intensive materials would also contribute to sound environmental management.
C. Gaining the Solar Advantage. The clinics can thermally benefit by passive and hybrid solar d.Xsign, as
well as by active solar design for domestic hot water heating and space heating. Solar collection systems
can effectively use air, water, and other fluids to store heat for space heating, air tempering, and the heating
of water, concrete, and other forms of thermal mass. Passive and hybrid solar subsystems can be most
beneficially suited to space function, economy, and efficiency. Maximum glass to south, moderate amount
to east, and minimum to west and north correspond best for the south solar advantage during {he cold
winter season. Shading should not be neglected for spring, sumnmer and particularly fall (whern passive
solar is prone to excess heat). Fixed versus movable forms of shading and solar attenuation should be
considered.
D. Earth Coupling. The earth provides more stabilized year-round temperatures than outdoor air, and
- 58 -



basements/foundations surrounded by earth are an example of effective earth coupling, as they tend to
remain at a more uniform temperature than above-grade portions of a building.
E. Ventilation and Openings. Screened ventilation intakes with insulated closure panels that are located
to maximize cross-ventilation can be more effective than operable window ventilation. Window locations
relate to view, light, and privacy control and interior space functions. Windows best serve for lighting,
thermal gain, and view. It is best to cross-ventilate interior spaces from low outdoor air intake to high
exhaust. Interior doors properly located can aid and control the cross-ventilation of rooms and all interior
spaces.
F. Insulation and Vapor Barriers. The insulation of roofs and external walls needs to be determined,
including thermal break sheeting to reduce energy loss through framing members (or an insulate thermal
break of rigid insulation under interior drywall).
G. Mechanical Systems. Mechanical systems should be subsidiary to the solar and natural energy
systems. The site, architecture, interior, and use of space should be regarded as an ecological, holistic
energy system. High-efficiency systems for heating domestic water (including solar systems) and for
hydronic interior space heating provide comfort and economy. Radiant (wall-mounted) radiator-zoned
hydronic heat is a good option for zoned comfort, space-by-space energy control, and conservation.
Air-to-air, water-to-air and ground-to-air heat pumps are energy-saving options. Plumbing stacks favor
economy and function when coordinated to minimize plumbing and also water service to toilets, kitchens,
and utility rooms. Water-saving faucets and other devices will also save energy in terms of heating water.
Solar and energy-conserving domestic hot water tanks should be located near the point of use and should
utilize insulated hot water lines, and all plumbing lines should be copper, with waste lines in cast iron to
avoid PVC outgassing. Exposed plumbing and pipe insulation should be of nontoxic material. Lead-free
solder should be used for soldering copper water line pipes.
L Electrical Systems. Incoming cables should be located underground. The main entrance feed and panel
should be located away from places of work and waiting in order that exposure to electromagnetic fields
mnight be avoided. Ground fault wiring near any plumbing fixture is a precaution. Selecting the most
energy-efficient light fixtures, lamps, appliances, and equipment will reduce energy demand, but can also
introduce undesirable electromagnetic fields. Users should be cautioned that proximity to halogen,
fluorescent, and other high-efficiency fixtures and lamps can cause exposure to potentially-harmful
electromagnetic fields.
J. Cabinetry and Wood. Nontoxic finishes are available; however, they can be very expensive.
Nevertheless, selecting the least toxic finishes is advised.
K. Finishes. From a respiratory standpoint, water-based, nontoxic, nonallergenic interior paint for
drywall or plaster surfaces is preferable to latex or oil-based paints. It is advised that any enamel coating
for doors or other surfaces that require a more durable fnish be applied away from interior spaces and be
fully aired for over a month before installation. Indoor space should not be occupied until the odor and
toxins of the paint or finish have been adequately aired.
L. Flooring. Traditional tile, marble, stone, and terrazzo floors can be hard to stand and walk upon, but
they have exceptional durability. Nontoxic grouts and methods of installation should be used.
- 59 -



M. Window Treatments. Passive solar gain south windows are best without draperies. Vertical blinds
that provide privacy, while allowing for wintertime solar gains, are a better option. Exterior rolling
shutters or screening operable from the interior are more effective than interior solar interventions.
N. Exterior and Interior Colors. Reflective roofs would provide a cooling advantage during the hot
summer months. When cold season occurs, darker-colored exterior walls will benefit from low-angle
winter solar gains, but will be less heated by the high angle of the summer sun. White or very lighit-colored
ceilings and interior side walls allow for deeper reflective penetration of natural light. Doorml between
interior room spaces can act as reflectors. Gloss white lacquer or enamel doors in the path of incoming
daylight can lighten adjoining spaces. Interior paints and fmnishes can directly affect patients and staff.
Outdoor finishes with odorous and toxic emissions can penetrate through windows, doors, and other
openings to have an unpleasant effect upon persons located indoors.
0. Demolition Work. Existing building elements (walls, foundations, ground, cement slabs, etc.) should
be carefully demolished and the debris should be sorted and removed. Used concrete blocks could be
crushed and reused as gravel substitute in road and construction projects. All valuable rnateria s (doors,
windows, sanitary fixtures, etc.) should be carefully dismantled and transported to tfle storagre area
assigned for the purpose. Valuable materials should be recycled within the project or sold.
P. Selection of Construction Materials and Construction Methods. Environmentally-sound gDods and
services should be given priority.  Priority should. also be given to products meeting nr.cognized
international or national standards.  Traditionally well-tried materials and methods should De given
preference over new and unknown techniques. Construction sites should be fenced off in order t0 prevent
entry by the public, and general safety measures should be imposed. Temporary inconvenienc '.s due to
construction works should be minimized through planning and coordination with contractors, rneighbors,
and authorities. In densely-populated areas, noisy or vibration-generating activities should be conifined to
the daytime hours. Environmental monitoring should be carried out by local authorities in order to ensure
that measures are enforced and construction impacts minimized.
Q. Handling of Medical and Non-medical Wastes. In the absence of explicit environmental ,tandards
and procedures, there is a risk that non-disinfected medical wastes from the rural clinics could be ,,ollected
and co-disposed of with household wastes at uncontrolled dumping sites, creating conditions that nay lead
to the proliferation of diseases and groundwater contamination. Some medical wastes are bein;- burned
on-site, while others are collected and incinerated at the central hospitals. The inadequate handling and
disposal of medical wastes may lead to the transrnission of HIV, hepatitis, meningitis, and other iL.fectious
diseases through injuries caused by syringe needles contaminated by human blood. The groups maist lt risk
are medical care workers, waste management operators, and scavengers. The management of rredical
wastes requires diligence and care from a chain of people, starting with medical care staff, c(onitinuing
through collection workers, and finishing with disposal operators. If any of these lack knowledge or are
careless in their work, or if scavengers or children are allowed to access the waste, then the chain v o0:ld be
broken and dangers of infection would follow.
It would be the responsibility of MOH to provide traininig courses for all staff involved in the marnlgrment
of medical wastes in order to make them aware of hazards--especially from infected sharps--as M 11 as to
educate patients and visitors on proper hygiene and cleanliness with respect to waste. Public avareness
campaigns should be held at the community level. Bot]h children and adults should be aware of I ie risks
posed by medical waste so that they can avoid risks themselves and warn authorities if they witness
unacceptable practices. The training of personnel should not solely explain routine procedures, lout also
- 60 -



cover emergency procedures--such as what actions should be taken as a result of the spillage of particular
types of waste, or in the case of an injury involving a needle. It would also be the responsibility of MOH to
develop and monitor supplies and consumer policies which aim to minimize the level of waste generated as
a result of the provision of services.
The segregation of waste shall be introduced in all upgraded clinics, and monitoring procedures should be
developed. The waste generated in clinics is to be categorized as follows for management purposes:
*   Clinical waste--sanitary dressings, human tissue, specimens, and infectious materials (includes
items that come in contact with infectious patients, infected linen, etc.);
* Sharps--hypodermic needles and syringes, scalpel blades, razor blades, etc.;
*   Organic domestic waste--food wastage, garden wastage, etc.;
*   Non-organic domestic waste--plastics, non-aluminum cans, cardboard packaging, etc.;
*   Domestic recyclable waste--bottles, newspapers, aluminum cans, etc.; and
*   Cytotoxic and hazardous chemical waste (if any).
All waste generated in clinics should be removed by specialist contractors for appropriate disposal. It is
necessary to provide a fully-equipped, lockable waste disposal store in the clinics to control medical waste
waiting for off-site transportation. A universal biological hazard symbol should be posted on the door of
the store. In order to ensure the safe and efficient handling and disposal of waste generated in the clinics, it
will be necessary to develop operational policies that are based on the central MOH principle of strict
segregation of medical (clinical waste and sharps) and domestic waste, as well as on the appropriate
disposal of cytotoxic waste (if any).
In order to be compliant with emerging guidelines and promote an environmentally-conscious approach to
waste management, operational policies should also be based on the segregation of domestic waste into
organic, non-organic, and recyclable categories. Waste generated in the clinics should be segregated as
follows:
*   Clinical waste--yellow bags;
3   Sharps--special puncture-resistant containers; and
v   Domestic waste (non-organic)--black bags, to be stored in the waste disposal store while awaiting
collection by waste collection staff.
The only organic waste generated in the clinics would be food waste and garden refuse, which should be
composted in the demonstration garden for health nutrition education. The medical waste should be
collected by specialist contractors for treatment at central plants in each district (preferably at the central
hospitals). Because landfill operations may cause a loss of containment integrity and the dispersal of
infectious waste, it is recommended that all infectious waste be treated prior to disposal. The following
medical waste management standards recommend:
*   Establishing standard operating procedures for each process used in treating infectious waste;
*   Monitoring of all treatment processes in order to ensure efficient and effective treatment; and
*   Using biological indicators to monitor treatment (other indicators may be used, provided that their
effectiveness has been successively demonstrated).
Reconmmended techniques for the treatment of infectious waste are steam sterilization, incineration,
microwave or ultraviolet heating systems, ionizing radiation, and chemical treatment. The choice of
technique depends on which category of infectious waste is being treated. Infectious waste that has been
- 61 -



treated is no longer hazardous, and may therefore be mixed with and disposed of as ordinary solid waste,
provided the waste does not pose other hazards that are subject to national regulations.
- 62 -



S:  t   '  'H.,f  '~~~ l.~"3;-WEST BANK
t1-iKi  S  <  -     y -    V>W>.----  1tgand
27               r-                                                  7f , 2 vr <<? >;-;   3 0  - GAZA
f } r/'~~ ~ 1,8-,-1  / ~~ ~   <  ~~ ;>   . \ .Jenin   \1    
~~~ /4: ~~~~~Ya'bad 
: :ti1           y  '   f        Ya'bad               J -' t?ie              - ,      8             +   AIRPORTS! AIRFIELDS
03r  6 t  !   jl . -   ,  ' ,Qabohn +3v  4    ,  =-=  MAJOR HIGHWAYS
.K. s ./>  . .1  au    . f>                                                             TTWO OR MORE LANES,
HARD SURFACED ROADS
'-~-  RAILROADS
Tubas-
Tulkarm  -A'75t   .                                                               BUILT-UP AREAS
J >X1 .-*   -    t/C    -                        v . Tammun   p.          ,   I       %   UNRWA REFUGEE CAMPS
/      n          f           1 7'~ -  ' STi  g w                                ,  _ Nablus  r   t z   '   ,  a ., t  ISRAELI SETTLEMENTS
t - 45/    {Nl
7           -                 i     f K 9                                                w - FARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINES, 1949
'QOaI4wa' --    -?                  .                                                 1 r  NO-MAN'S LAND AREAS
t mS ~at-5 -                      I                  s                  sr ,. | L-J ARMISTICE DEMARCATION LINE, 1949
. , [ .   z   * 4  ,   ^  s    ie   JERUSALEM CITY LIMIT UNILATERALLY
f; ,-3E.' I                                                                                               . t  >   EXPANDED BY ISRAEL JUNE 1967;
Ladg_     1/<                     sT ,2 ~  '#p*       _           V,                     U        THEN ANNEXED JULY 30 1980
*CTTSLEYE  '   4 &N   '                               -             ;   \               -INTINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
slremainatno  -I-                               5'SL'
A port,        p                         W    E  S  T      /
'ISRAELJ                               5 -,A  N  K                                          ____.        _____r____
4"XS990\+X^t'.C:WN,_ 4    5W =4 S w
r?                                                 -,4      .- Mt .    :    .   -   -D17'F! '        i    ,  4SAEAP
Raracis                          4I Ch~
-'6                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JORDAN
355 r'~                   . *R Jercl'                                                   ' -DTRA            N-
[                                                        -       2% -NoM                                      P             n1                r.-  I  : '    G /  r  
4.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
S ~~1 ~~nt ,';   9kCIS Ct~                                              "'                                   .
JERU            At.                                                   ,
4' :t33,-1ahan '   s5/                        jtjg    tE   ~~ "    'RIRE
SEA
C  ,  ,    X /--                                  0:--/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-S,        x-3, 
Hebron    ehe                                                         0+5
c.p.nt o s  b eXf/=/-    5.r? ffwhL .33                          /                                               'O  1
SEA    A l'           33
` -  attFclh                               2."./Gz
Hebron ~~~~~  3Ff  F  '  ~    ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      IRAE
'Zohor ~~~~~                                             ~Al3
35            /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.             ma's,,,   .3"               3Ff                      A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-8



