Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23902
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(TF-28500)
ONA
GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 4.24 MILLION (US$6.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
Tana River Primate National Reserve Conservation Project
January 10, 2003
Environment and Social Development Unit
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
nol                 Aft



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 7, 2002)
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings
Ksh I = US$ 0.1276
US$ I = Ksh 78.355
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC           Africa Centre for Conservation
AMP           Adaptive Management Plan
ASPEN         Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement
BTO           Back-to-Office
CAC           Community Advisory Committee
CAP           Community Action Plans
CBAHC         Community-Based Animal Health Care
CBO           Community Based Organizations
CCDC          Community Conservation and Development Component
CDA           Capacity Development Africa
CDS           Community Development Specialist
CM            Community Mobilizer
COBRA         Conservation of Biodiverse Resource Areas Project
CPO           Community Partnership Officer
CRS           Relief Services
DC            District Commissioner
DDRP          Deputy Director for Research and Planning
DRSRS         Department of Remote Sensing and Resource Surveys
EAWLS         East Africa Wildlife Society
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
ENVGC         Global Environment Coordination Division
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization
GASP          German Assisted Settlement Program
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GEFSEC        Global Environment Facility Secretariat
GOK           Government of Kenya
GTZ           Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit
HQ            Headquarters
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:  Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:  Richard G. Scobey
Team Leader:   Richard J. Kaguamba



ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IPR           Institute of Primate Research
JRMC          Joint Reserve Management Committee
KEFRI         Kenya Forestry Research Institute
KPCG          Kenya Primate Conservation Group
KWS           Kenya Wildlife Service
LOA           Letters of Allotment
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MLS           Ministry of Lands and Settlement
MoU           Memorandum of Understanding
MPIC          Management Plan Implementation Committee
MTR           Mid Term Review
NES           National Environment Secretariat
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NMK           National Museums of Kenya
PAWS          Protected Areas and Wildlife Services Project
PC            Project Coordinator
PD            Project Document
PRA           Participatory Rural Appraisal
PSC           Project Steering Committee
PSR           Project Supervision Report
QACU          Quality Assurance and Compliance Unit
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RMAC          Reserve Management Component
RMOC          Research and Monitoring Component
SAC           Scientific Advisory Committee
SRS           Senior Research Scientist
TADEMFO       Tana Delta Environmental Management Forum
TARDA         Tana River Development Authority
TM            Task Manager
TRCC          Tana River County Council
TRPNR         Tana River Primate National Reserve
VRAU          Voluntary Relocation Assistance Unit
WB            World Bank






KENYA
Tana River Primate National Reserve Conservation Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             10
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                14
9. Partner Comments                                                                15
10. Additional Information                                                        24
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             33
MAP
IBRD 27614






Project ID: P00 1217                                     Project Name: Tana River Primate National Reserve
Conservation Project
Team Leader: Richard Kaguamba                            TL Unit: AFTES
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 10, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Tana River Primate National Reserve Conservation L/C/TF Number: TF-28500
Project
Country/Department: KENYA                                               Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: Other social services (54%); Central govermment
administration (33%); General agriculture, fishing
and forestry sector (13%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/07/1991                             Effective:                   07/01/1997
Appraisal:  05/22/1995                               MTR:                       01/17/2000
Approval:  11/21/1996                              Closing: 06/30/2001         12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF KENYA/KENYA WILDLIFE SERVICE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager:     Makhtar Diop                              James W. Adams
Sector Manager:      Richard G. Scobey                         Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader at ICR:  Richard Kaguamba                          Agi Kiss
ICR Primary Author:  Richard Kaguamba; A. Agostini
and K. Creighton FAO
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H'=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Developmemt Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The overall goal of the project was to improve the conservation and management of Tana Primnate
Reserve (a unique and diverse biological entity of global importance), with participation and increased
benefits for local communities. The objectives of the project were: (i) to support the conservation of the
unique biological community of the Tana River riparian forests; (ii) to incorporate the results of targeted
research and monitoring into the management of a fragile and complex ecosystem; and (iii) to reduce
identified threats to the ecological integrity and survival of the forest ecosystem. It was recognized that,
to achieve these objectives, it would be necessary to identify and implement an effective management
program for the forest ecosystem, taking into account the interests of the full range of stakeholders
affected by the project, with a specific focus on people living within and adjacent to the Tana River
Primate National Reserve (TRPNR). Hydrological changes upstream have reduced the fertile land area
suitable for forest regrowth and agricultural activities, and, therefore, exacerbated competition for scarce
resources between the primates and local residents. The objectives were suitable, if ambitious, for
biodiversity protection. Improving the well-being of the local population was not an explicit objective of
the project, but was regarded as a means towards achieving sustainable conservation objectives. This,
along with the scientific focus of the project, was in line with the Global Environment Facility (GEF)
pilot phase priorities. The project was identified during the Pilot phase of GEF and reflected the GEF
priorities at the time, which were: (1) global environmental significance of project objectives; and (2)
demonstration value of a project to guide evolution of the GEF portfolio. The global importance of the
ecosystem and its biodiversity, including two endemic primate species, was widely accepted. The
particular demonstration value in this project, lay chiefly in exploring approaches to dealing with a
situation where communities live inside a protected area. Improved community welfare was seen as a
measure to reduce constraints on biodiversity protection, rather than as an end in itself.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective remained unchanged throughout the project.
3.3 Original Components:
Research and Monitoring (RiOC): Supporting necessary baseline studies to identify the composition
and status of flora and fauna within the TRNPR and adjacent forest and aquatic habitats, as well as the
underlying factors affecting their present status and constraining future management options. The
research program was to address five priority areas: (a) monitoring of primate populations, genetics and
habitat parameters; (b) baseline and monitoring surveys of flora and fauna; (c) studies and monitoring of
the Tana River hydrological system and its ecological effects; (d) human resource utilization (to establish
sustainable use levels for forest products); and (e) prospects and methods for promoting and facilitating
community-based conservation of remaining forest patches outside the Reserve boundaries.
Implementation was to be guided by a Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC).
Reserve Management (RMAC): Developing an adaptive management system, to restore the integrity of
the TRNPR and maintain or enhance the habitat quality and productive potential of adjacent riverine
forests along the lower Tana River. The reserve management component was to include: (a) measures to
enhance security within the reserve and adjacent areas; (b) measures to reduce poaching and agricultural
encroachment in the reserve; (c) improvement of physical facilities for reserve management, research and
monitoring; (d) establishment of consultative and advisory bodies, such as the Joint Reserve Management
Committee (JRMC), to involve local communities in the planning and management of project activities;
and (e) preparation and implementation of an Adaptive Management Plan (AMP) for the Reserve, with
significant input from research studies, and incorporating a rigorous and sustainable monitoring regime
for key indicators related to the core project objectives. Implementation was to be guided by the JRMC.
-2 -



Community Conservation and Development (CCDC): the specific objectives of the CCDC were to build
support among local communities and to reduce pressure on reserve resources. This was to be achieved
by: (a) supporting alternative livelihoods through the implementation of microprojects and income-
generating activities, based on the sustainable use of resources within and outside of the reserve; and (b)
to encourage voluntary relocation of communities farming in the reserve, by identifying and acquiring
alternative land, and increasing its productivity. US$400 000 (6% of the total project costs) were
envisaged in the budget for supporting outward migration from the reserve. In the remainder of the report,
the terms "relocation" and "resettlement" are used interchangeably. The latter was to be coordinated by a
Voluntary Relocation Advisory Unit (VRAU), composed of local community representatives, the Kenya
Wildlife Service (KWS), and local government representatives. Overall component implementation was
to be guided and monitored by the Community Advisory Committee (CAC), comprising KWS and Non-
Governmental Organization (NGO) stakeholders.
The communities immediately affected by the project are sedentary farmers (Pokomo), living and
cultivating in and around the reserve, and pastoralists (Wardei). With respect to their attitude to the
project, the affected communities fell into three groups - those opposed to the project, those coopeMting
with the project, and inclined to participate in voluntary relocation, and those cooperating with the
project, but not inclined to relocate. While the Wardei uniformly belonged to the latter group, the local
Pokomo community was split across the three different groups. Baomo, the only village situated inside
the Reserve, remained hostile to the project throughout implementation. No other specific explanatory
characteristics were identified, by which the various Pokomo households differed across the three groups.
3.4 Revised Components:
Components were not revised throughout the project. Within the CCDC, all efforts were concentrated on
relocation assistance after December 1999, while other activities (endowment funds, microprojects
around the Reserve) were put on hold. A reallocation of all remaining CCDC and some RMAC and
RMOC funds was proposed in 2001, to finance the resettlement plan. GEF Secretariat (GEFSEC)
determined that it could not authorize this reallocation.
Component                                   Cost             Rating
RESEARCH AND MONITORING                     $2,500,000.00    S
RESERVE MANAGEMENT                          $1,400,000.00    S
COMMUNITY CONSERVATION & DEVELOP            $2,400,000.00    U
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT              $300,000.00      U
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No Quality Assurance Group (QAG) rating exists for this project. The inter-linkage of component
activities provided a solid conceptual basis for achieving the objectives. However, these cross-linkages
also contributed to the risk of delays in overall implementation, if individual components failed to keep
pace with the others. It was recognized at appraisal, that the extensive engagement of communities in
developing a plan for joint management of biological resources within and outside of the Reserve,
represented a change in approach from previous KWS methods and practices. Considering this fact, as
well as the intense competition for land suitable for forest restoration or cultivation, and the
heterogeneous attitudes toward the project among local residents, it was anticipated that the CCDC would
be the factor limiting the speed of overall implementation. To minimize this risk, the Bank and GEF
allowed an unusually long preparation period, in which the main objective was to bring the community
"on board". Ultimately, it was agreed that a sufficient portion of the community supported the project to
allow implementation to begin on a "phased basis", i.e. to proceed with RMOC and RMAC immediately,
and to begin the CCDD with those communities that were ready to do so, allowing others to follow at
- 3 -



their own pace. The identification and allocation of alternative land ideally should have been a condition
of effectiveness, rather than a project activity. However, the urgency of taking action to control ongoing
encroachment and biodiversity loss precluded this option.
The operating and management procedures outlined in the PD had problems. The quest for highest
caliber personnel conflicted with the low attractiveness of TRPNR as a duty station, and with the
intention eventually to integrate the project activities into regular KWS work and management processes.
The former constraint demanded high pay schedules (higher than KWS' own salary schedules), whereas
the latter required that pay would be more in line with KWS averages. In the end, a mid-way path was
followed, which may have contributed to poor project performance. However, it is not clear how this
dilemma could have been avoided given the circumstances or that any other approach would have been
more effective. Greater attention from KWS' management would have speeded-up recruitment, initiation
of field components and disbursement, especially on the non-research components. Two key governance
structures outlined in the PD, the Project Steering Committee (PSC), and the CAC, were not constituted
prior to effectiveness, as had been agreed. Final versions of ecological and socio-economic monitoring
indicators were also not provided prior to effectiveness, although this had been agreed at appraisal. The
lack of agreed indicators over most of the project implementation cycle, has limited the performance of
both KWS implementation and Bank supervision, during project execution. The disbursement profile set
out in the PD was accelerated relative to other Bank projects in Kenya, despite anticipated difficulties and
potential delays. The PD envisaged to provide funds for "legal, technical and financial assistance, to
identify and acquire alternative land and increase its productivity (e.g. through micro-irrigation)" (p.5).
4. Achievement ol Ob.ecfive anmd Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The two species of globally-threatened primates occurring within the project zone, have maintained their
population levels during the period of project implementation within the range of statistical observational
uncertainty. However, habitat that is critical for the survival of these indicator species, has declined in
quality and quantity throughout the project period, though the rate of decline may have moderated during
the project period, in particular within the Reserve boundaries. The total area of suitable habitat (inside
and outside the Reserve) is estimated to have decreased by at least 5%. The level of vulnerability of at
least one of the target species (red colobus) has increased. Human activities that are incompatible with
long-term survival of the primates and the forest habitats, upon which their survival depends, have also
increased within the project zone during implementation. The research community is in consensus, that
the primate populations, as well as the forests upon which they depend, remain potentially viable at the
time of project closure. However, given that the project did not resolve the underlying driving factor of
human encroachment and destruction of the critical habitats, the prospects for medium- or long-term
sustainability, let alone improvement of the status quo, are uncertain. The overall development objective
of ensuring the survival and sustainability of threatened biodiversity of global significance within the
project region has, therefore, not been met. Some achievements were made in incorporating targeted
research into the AMP, but not to the degree anticipated in the project design phase.
Local communities have benefited from increased security, attributed to KWS's presence. Alternative
livelihood options were not developed, and the potential for sustainable use of resources in and around the
reserve, has not been deternined. Fanilies who had signed up for the resettlement program will receive
letters of allotment for their allocated plots at the new site. This is a significant benefit, considering the
scarcity of agricultural land in the area. However, no resettlement assistance will be forthcoming, and it
is therefore unclear whether they will be able to relocate successfully. It will be desirable, nevertheless,
for the Bank to try and support initiatives that might, in the future, come from Kenya Government aimed
-4 -



at completing the resettlement plan or supporting the communities to pursue environmentally sustainable
management of the Tana Reserve's resources.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Research and Monitoring: An overall plan for research and monitoring was developed soon after project
effectiveness. Most research activities were to be carried out and coordinated by the National Museums
of Kenya (NMK), under a contract with KWS. Initial implementation was slow due to a number of
factors. These include: a delay in reaching an agreement with NMK on the specific research program as
well as weak financial administration by NMK that restricted cash flow, to limited logistic support due to
delays in purchase of equipment and vehicles by KWS, and to ineffective coordination of the overall
work schedule for this component, and unusually severe flooding of the Tana River in 1997-98. Despite
this, most of the baseline biological studies were accomplished, and monitoring of primate populations,
forest cover, human use of forest resources and habitat quality were carried out during the life of the
project. Ten of thirteen studies identified in the PD were undertaken, and the results have been
incorporated into the AMP developed for the 2001-006 period. At project closure, limited monitoring of
endangered primates, and habitat quality continues. Studies on the hydrology of the project zone, and on
the potential for natural or managed regeneration of forests, were not accomplished. A seedling
production and restoration planting program was established in the final year of the project.
Although a substantial amount of baseline data and knowledge of the biological content and human uses
of the Tana River forests was generated under the project, RMOC has fallen short of achieving several of
its most important objectives. First, despite three different studies of land use and land cover in the
project zone, that were financed under the project, there is still lack of consensus or clarity concerning the
quantity and habitat quality of forest cover remaining in the project zone. KWS and the World Bank
(WB) agreed that the land cover assessment undertaken by Department of Remote Sensing and Resource
Surveys (DRSRS), did not provide an adequate basis for guiding project evaluation and decision-making
and, hence, KWS contracted a private sector company to undertake an additional study. The final report
of this study is still outstanding. The rates and causes of changes in forest cover and habitat quality, both
inside and outside of the reserve, are still not well understood. Second, although the two sets of primate
studies commissioned under the project are in general agreement on overall population estimates for the
two endangered primate species, there is a lack of consensus concerning the vulnerability of the
remaining primate populations. At the time of project closure, both the primates and their habitat are
viable, but remain at significant risk of extinction, if further erosion of the resource base occurs. In the
absence of hydrological studies, there is a lack of clear understanding of the successional changes in the
riverine forests and, therefore, it is difficult to define appropriate and viable forest restoration and
regeneration activities. The recently prepared AMP notes that data on human uses of the forest are still
required in order to set sustainable use limits for forest products. The close linkage between outputs of
RMOC and RMAC, envisaged during project preparation, was not achieved, despite open-sharing of
intermediate research results throughout the project. The researchers concentrated on the parts of the
agreed research program that coincided with their research priorities, and KWS did not steer the research
agenda sufficiently to ensure a comprehensive research output to support the AMP. In the absence of an
agreed and reliable set of monitoring indicators for the target biota and the underlying factors, the key
objective of this component has not been fully met, and despite significant gains in relevant knowledge
about the project zone, the overall performance is therefore considered (marginally) satisfactory.
Reserve Management: The main RMAC outputs were in the areas of security, infrastructure, adaptive
management planning, and establishment of liaison with relevant authorities and communities.
Security. Prior to the establishment of a permanent presence by KWS in the TRNPR, the lower Tana
River region was plagued by livestock raiding, robberies and kidnappings. Potential farmland east of the
river, could not be utilized due to the security risks. Villagers confirmed their appreciation for the
- 5 -



increased security, and attributed this to KWS's presence. Improved security, however, may have
actually increased pressure on forest resources in and around the Reserve, as villagers now find it safer to
cultivate lands that were previously inaccessible. Also, during the period of intensive community
dialogue for relocation planning, enforcement activities were relaxed, to avoid potentially negative
impacts on community relations. This may have resulted in more (temporary) degradation of forest
habitats.
Infrastructure. Mchelelo Research Camp was upgraded with water and electricity supplies. The
administrative headquarters (HQ) were relocated to a new site within the reserve, including construction
of key infrastructure. A nursery with water supply and a small storage shed used as an herbarium, was
constructed in 2000. The reserve airstrip was upgraded, and a new road entrance to the administrative
HQ was built.
Adaptive Management Planning and Implementation. An interim management plan for the Reserve was
developed during preparation, covering the period 1994-1999. The document was revised with inputs
from the 1998 and 1999 research reports. The JRMC was established in May 1995, and met frequently
until late-1998. Initially, the JRMC was composed of thirty-five members, including two County
Councillors, two chiefs from villages adjacent to the Reserve, and ten appointed, at-large, community
members. In early 1998, appointed, at-large, members were replaced by community-elected members,
and an elected Chairman replacing the District Commissioner (DC) who had previously held that
position. A new AMP, covering the period from 2001-2006, was prepared during 2001. The plan notes
that the JRMC is not currently operational, and will need to be reconstituted to achieve an appropriate
balance of stakeholder representation among remaining residents. It addresses the use of resources within
the reserve by local commnunities, including both forest product harvesting and livestock grazing. During
AMP preparation, two workshops were held with community representatives, to identify priorities and
define options. A third workshop to "validate" the plan has not yet taken place. Use of the VRAU (a
cormmittee representing those residents planning to relocate) to organize participation, however, raises
some question as to whether all appropriate stakeholders have been involved. The AMP also calls for
initiation of an NGO collaborative agreement, to implement community management of priority forests.
Originally, this was to be achieved during the project period, but searches for a suitable NGO partner
were unsuccessful. The best example of collaborative management between KWS and local communities
was the program to generate and plant seedlings for forest regeneration and habitat enrichment. The
seedling production facility (tree nursery) is now run by two locally-recruited and trained assistants, who
have been retained by KWS. The seedling planting and maintenance work done in late 2001, was carried
out with the participation of more than 40 villagers. Planting was done by paid village labor while
watering and weeding has been done by villagers on a voluntary basis.
Quality and Viability of the Adaptive Management Plan (2001-2006). The AMP has benefited from
collaboration, technical review and input provided by Nairobi-based institutions (NMK, DRSRS, Institute
of Primate Research (IPR)), and some local institutions and NGOs. The plan provides an effective
framework for future management of the reserve. However, it is built on the assumptions that GEF
project funding will continue until June 2003, and that 60 percent of farmland in the reserve will be
abandoned by relocating families. In the absence of continued funding, many AMP activities will need to
be scaled-back severely, or cancelled. Following the cancellation of the resettlement program, it is
expected that some of the temporarily abandoned land will be reoccupied, and that land clearing and
harvesting of firewood within the reserve and other vulnerable forest patches will continue, or increase.
The ADP will need to be revised to reflect the changed situation.
- 6 -



Establishment of Liaison. Throughout the project, KWS has established effective liaison with local and
regional authorities, such as the District Commissioner's Office and the Tana River County Council
(TRCC). There appear to be regular information exchanges, and a general spirit of collaboration prevails.
In terms of the effort made to encourage community participation, the infrastructure improvements that
were achieved, and the general outline of management interventions described in the Management Plan,
the outputs of this component are satisfactory. Following the abrupt withdrawal of funding, however, it is
questionable whether the outcome of Reserve Management efforts will be sustainable.
Community Conservation and Development Component: The CCDC was implemented with significant
delay, reflecting the late recruitment of all key staff, inaccessibility of some areas, following the El Niho
floods, and hostility among some communities. The component was refocused considerably throughout
project implementation, in response to the local situation and evolving preferences of the communities.
Goodwill projects: Only one of the two goodwill projects initiated during project preparation was ever
implemented (construction of an administrative school building). Little goodwill was created, and
hostility towards the reserve persisted and continues to persist among some residents living within and
adjacent to the reserve. A court case challenging the legitimacy of the reserve is still pending.
Community-based endowmentfunds: Neither the micro-project fund envisaged to ensure funding beyond
project closure, nor the education fund for school bursaries was established. No progress was made in the
first two years, and follow-up was then halted to concentrate CCDC efforts on relocation activities.
Community Action Plans (CAPs): Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRAs) that were to provide the basis
for specific livelihood activities and CAPs were not carried out until autumn 1999, and the validity of the
results was questioned, as only a small, and not necessarily representative, sample of households was
interviewed. Four out of nine villages (including Baomo, the only village inside the reserve), did not
participate in the PRA, because of their hostile attitude towards the project. The two largest villages
surveyed, identified lack of title to their land as the most important problem. The CAPs were not
followed-up, as a strategic decision was taken at the MTR to concentrate CCDC efforts on voluntary
relocation. This was because reducing population pressure within the reserve had always been identified
as crucial, and no real progress was being made on CAPS and there seemed to be no real progress of
improvement.
Supportfor voluntary out-migration: During the preparation phase, a number of Pokomo households had
expressed their desire to relocate from the reserve where they could not obtain clear land titles, and where
restrictions on extending the areas under cultivation conflicted with the increasing needs of a growing
population and with their traditional shifting pattern of agricultural activity. Despite the slow onset of
supporting activities, interest persisted and grew. The VRAU was finally constituted in March 1999, and
completed a supplementary census of the population, depending upon reserve resources, with a particular
focus on households eager to relocate. Some observers have claimed that speculative land clearing
increased in anticipation of possible compensation payments, but no concrete evidence of this has been
produced. GOK identified several alternative land areas for settlement in August 1999, and community
representatives selected the Witu II site as their preferred location. Witu II is located in Tana County,
close to the coast in Lamu District, approximately four hours drive from TRPNR. This growing
momentum, coupled with the realization that the continued ecological integrity of the reserve depends
upon forest restoration on farmland in the reserve, resulted in a consensus decision by KWS and the WB
in December 1999, to concentrate all CCDC efforts on supporting voluntary relocation, and to put other
activities within this component on hold.
-7 -



Based on guidance from Africa Safeguards Policy Enhancement (ASPEN) and Quality Assurance and
Compliance Unit (QACU), a resettlement plan was prepared in line with WB guidelines on involuntary
resettlement. In their view, the resettlement might not be regarded as fully voluntary, given that KWS'
indicated that no further clearing of forest would be permitted within the Reserve. As this would
undermine the prevailing practice of shifting cultivation, the resettlement could be regarded as having an
element of coercion. This resettlement plan foresaw the construction of key social and physical
infrastructure, housing, physical movement of families to the new site, crop compensation and settling-in
assistance. Two hundred and forty seven households whose farms cover approximately 60 percent of
farmland in the reserve, signed up for the first phase of resettlement. A further 100 households
(approximately) subsequently recorded their interest in participating in a second phase of relocation. This
second group would only receive free titled land as an incentive to resettle.
KWS led the land survey and demarcation activities at Witu H, in collaboration with district authorities
and technicians from the Ministry of Lands and Settlement (MLS). An agreement was reached between
KWS and Gesellschaft fuer Technische Zusammenarbeit (GTZ)/German Assisted Settlement Program
(GASP), which has over 20 years of experience in resettlement within the area, to implement the
resettlement program, starting in the second half of 2001. In mid-2001, all resettlement activities were
put on hold, awaiting the extension of the project and re-allocation of funding, which were eventually not
approved. During a six-month extension (July-December 2001), project resources could only be
committed to cover administrative expenditure to ensure that the 247 households would receive letters of
allotment (LOAs), and eventually title deeds. It is expected that some families, most of whom had left
their farms in anticipation of resettlement, and had even initiated forest restoration on the abandoned land,
will relocate once they receive their LOAs, even in the absence of further benefits or support. Many,
however, will likely return to farm their abandoned lands in the reserve. There was widespread
agreement that, for any transfer to Witu It to proceed humanely and successfully, some additional
investment is required. At the very least, access paths to the farmland need to be opened, and the families
need to be formally shown their plots.
Pastoral communities 'projects: The Wardei had cooperated with the project from the outset, but due to
initial delays, and the subsequent concentration on resettlement, micro-projects identified in a separate
compensation plan, drawn up in parallel with the resettlement plan, were only started in 2001, and none
were finalized. Planned activities included construction of a school, borehole, cattle dip, dispensary, and
training of community animal health workers. The training program will be now be implemented by the
Catholic Diocese of Garissa, without KWS involvement. Materials for the school and dispensary were
purchased with project funds. Alternative dry season grazing land was set aside, but not demarcated, and
may therefore not be available following project closure. The AMP, however, allows for limited grazing
in the reserve during extreme droughts.
The CAC only held one meeting, in August 2000, which was attended exclusively by KWS staff. An
NGO representative was invited, but did not attend. Greater dialogue with NGOs, and dissemination of
information about the project, could have avoided some of the negative press and community
polarization, which hindered successful project implementation. However, some of the groups criticizing
the project appeared intent on sensationalizing the situation and disregarded the information that was
provided by KWS and by the World Bank. Therefore, it is not clear that providing additional information
would have changed their perspective.
The outcome of the CCDC is highly unsatisfactory, even though progress in the later years is
acknowledged. No altemative livelihood or sustainable reserve, resource-use strategies have been
identified and fostered, given the slow start, and the principal focus on relocation in the latter years of
- 8 -



implementation. Goodwill towards the reserve, KWS and its partners that had been nurtured during
continued dialogue has ceased, now that the resettlement plan is cancelled.
Project Co-ordination and Management: Although this is not introduced as a component in the PD, it is
treated as such in all cost tables. Originally, a dual coordination structure was proposed: A small number
of externally-recruited staff were to be funded by the project, all of whom would report administratively
to the Project Coordinator (PC). On technical aspects, however, the project staff, as well as the regular
KWS staff involved in project implementation, were to report to the appropriate KWS line managers in
the technical departments. Recruitment of key project staff suffered significant delays. While the PC was
recruited in July 1997, and the Senior Research Scientist (SRS) joined the project in November 1997, it
was only in August 1998 that management in the reserve was upgraded by posting a senior warden. The
Community Development Specialist (CDS) was not recruited until July 1998, and the Community
Partnership Officer (CPO) only came on board in March 1998, followed by Community Mobilizers
(CMs) in 1999. Some project positions were never filled (Agroforester), or only for parts of the project
life (Data Analyst, Forest Restoration Officer). Throughout project implementation, staff turnover was
high - three PCs, two field activities' coordinators, two forestry officers, three accountants and, at the
highest level, five DDRPs and four Directors of KWS. The dual reporting lines, designed to ensure a
close integration of project activities into the regular KWS work program, led to problems, as some
technical department managers expected to have full control over staff activities and project resources,
which conflicted with the mandate of the PC. The "outsider status" of the PC and other project staff,
slowed down early implementation. A lack of familiarity with KWS procedures on the part of project
staff, was exacerbated by reduced cooperation of KWS insiders, who resented their privileged position.
From 2000 onwards, project positions, including the PC post, were filled with regular KWS staff. The
new team significantly increased the level of activity and implementation performance. Nevertheless, the
project continued to be perceived as a set of interventions implemented separately from other KWS
activities, limiting institutional commitment. It was also suggested that the posting of key project staff to
TRPNR rather than Nairobi would have been more effective in ensuring smooth implementation on the
ground. The overall direction of the project was to be guided by the PSC, but records exist of only one
meeting held in November 1997, to confirm initial staff appointments and review the first annual
workplan. An overall project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) plan was not prepared until May 2001
and was never implemented. However, certain technical indicators, such as primate populations, were
monitored throughout project implementation, and Terms of Reference for independent M&E of the
planned resettlement activities were prepared. It was envisaged to broaden the scope of this monitoring
and evaluation study, to cover all project activities. Despite improvements in the later years, overall
project coordination and management was unsatisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has provided an opportunity for KWS to identify a relevant research agenda for adaptive
management and to incorporate the outputs into their planning and management of the Reserve. It has
also built-up significant capacity within KWS to handle difficult dialogue with a community that is torn
between support and opposition to the project. KWS has also built-up strong links with local authorities
and the district and council, for collaboration in reserve management. The recruitment of key personnel
from KWS ranks since 2000 has strengthened this impact, as the capacity will remain in the organization.
However, as most key staff are now reassigned to other areas, little continuity remains on the ground.
-9-



The construction of key infrastructure in the reserve has increased KWS' capacity to control and manage
the Reserve. The preparation of the AMP was to give KWS and local authorities the tools for effective
reserve management. However, the AMP will now have to be substantially revised, in view of the
termnination of GEF funding, and the likely return of some families to their farms in the reserve. The
sudden termination of funding has left KWS, the district authorities and the TRCC, with a major backlash
of resentment, expressed by the communities who feel misled and cheated. Any future collaboration with
these communities and others informed about the project will be very difficult. KWS is also concerned
about potential repercussions on its other community wildlife projects elsewhere. Overall, the institutional
development impact is mixed and modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
A key factor was the polarized nature of the local communities vis-at-vis collaboration with the project. A
number of families were returnees from the WB-supported failed Bura irrigation scheme (p. 5, Annex 5,
PD). Other factors were the extensive floods in 1997, following El Nifo, and the decision by GEFSEC
not to authorize the reallocation of committed grant funds, to implement the proposed two year extension.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Frequent changes in leadership at KWS, and, hence, priority setting and management philosophy,
diminished project performance. The allocation of alternative land for settlement was slow, but
eventually achieved. Collaboration of other government institutions in the resettlement planning was
forthcoming and effective
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
TRPNR has never been a priority area for KWS, as it does not generate revenues and is recognized as a
difficult area for staff to live and work. The provision of a GEF grant to fund activities in this reserve did
not fundamentally change the importance attached to TRPNR. KWS was to build consensus on project
direction with other stakeholders, through the PSC, but only one meeting appears to have been held, and
the desired consensus was not built. The project's slow start can be attributed predominantly to internal
management issues, which were not rectified with sufficient urgency.
5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was financed by a GEF grant and KWS counterpart contributions. Project costs were
estimated at US$7.14 million, but only US$1.91 million (equivalent to 27 percent) were disbursed (see
Annex 2). This can be attributed to the low levels of activity in the first two years of implementation, and
the subsequent concentration on planning for resettlement. There were also significant delays in
establishing systems by which KWS could advance funds to third parties, such as NMK. Delays in
accounting for expenditure returns by partners, and from the field, slowed down replenishment of the
special account. The original disbursement schedule was unrealistic, in view of the complex nature of
project activities and the risk factors identified. If the two-year extension and reallocation of funding had
been granted, it is expected that all funds would have been spent. In 2001, a reallocation of funding was
proposed to finance the resettlement program (US$3.2 million), as only US$0.4 million had originally
been budgeted for relocation assistance. Most funding was to be reallocated within the CCDC, with some
contributions from the other component budgets.
- 10-



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the modest project achievements, of relative stability of the primate populations, and
(perhaps) a reduction in the rate of habitat destruction and degradation within the project zone; is unlikely,
following the abrupt closure of the project in the absence of further intervention. Project-sponsored and
earlier studies clearly indicate, that the pattern of present human use of the forests and the surrounding
agricultural lands, is incompatible with long-term survival of the target species and their habitat.
Following the cancellation of the resettlement plan, it is unclear as to how much farmland in the reserve
will be abandoned, even if families eventually receive their LOAs. The project-stimulated dialogue over
alternative livelihood options and resettlement, has led to heightened social tension and splits within the
local communities. The project did create greater capacity in KWS and its partners for community
dialogue, but the loss of credibility following cancellation of the resettlement support more than offsets
this benefit. An adaptive management system was put in place through the AMP, but this is no longer
appropriate, given the changed circumstances, and needs significant revision. The forest restoration
program is continuing, but unless abandoned farmland in the reserve can be restored, the impact will not
be significant.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Following project closure, KWS proposes to: (i) continue enhancing security, proceed with the move to
the new reserve HQ, and to strictly enforce the law, as well as to resolve the outstanding court case; (ii)
revise the AMP to reflect reduced funding and to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with
TRCC, to seek an increased role of the Council in management of the reserve; (iii) process and give
LOAs and title deeds to the 247 families, and to enlist community support for conservation, through
micro-projects around the reserve; (iv) continue research and monitoring activities, including through
continuing cooperation with the Kenya Primate Conservation Group; and (v) fund raise through proposals
development. However, as most key project personnel have been withdrawn, and equipment has not been
clearly assigned to continue activities in Tana, and as KWS is under pressure to cut operating costs, the
implementation of these proposed transition arrangements is not guaranteed. The promotion of the CPO
to the position of Warden, should allow some continuity in Reserve management. The corporate
communications strategy, envisaged as part of the exit plan to communicate project closure to various
stakeholders and the wider public, has not been developed, let alone implemented. Prospects for
successful transition are, therefore, limited.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project identification and preparation reflected the GEF pilot phase priorities. The WB appears to have
over-estimated the "power" of GEF grant financing, to raise the priority of TRPNR on KWS's national
agenda, which raises concerns for sustainability. The Bank's appraisal team was appropriate. The
appraisal team consisted of specialists in conservation ecology, research and monitoring, protected area
management, and social anthropology, and the report contains a series of working papers that complement
the draft PD prepared by KWS. The appraisal report identified many project risks, which subsequently
hampered implementation. Risks identified included: (a) potential ecological non-viability of the reserve
forests due to hydrological changes set in motion by upstream developments; (b) a substantial risk of
inadequate community buy-in, and of difficulties with coming to consensus solutions, given what was
known about divisions within the community; (c) a pace of implementation of the community component
that was dependent on these communities and, therefore, difficult to coordinate with other components;
(d) questions about whether KWS could provide sufficient level of management oversight, due to other
-Il-



priorities. The overall GEF financing package was considered adequate, and complementary to related
projects, including the WB-financed Protected Areas and Wildlife Services (PAWS) and the USAID-
funded Conservation of Biodiverse Resource Areas (COBRA) projects under implementation. However,
the disbursement schedule, which was more ambitious than the Kenya average, was inappropriate, in
view of the expected risks of delays and complications. Further, the appraisal team could have
anticipated the need for a higher budget allocation for relocation assistance activities. The preparation
period for this project was unusually long (about 5 years), as was the period between completion of the
initial preparation reports and appraisal (18 months) and between appraisal and project effectiveness (25
months). These delays were all the result of the task team awaiting assurance that there was sufficient
community support for the project, given the troubled history and deep divisions within the community
and their overall negative perceptions of the Reserve and KWS. KWS invested considerable effort in
improving community relations and eventually was able to gain the qualified support of a substantial
portion of the community, and it was agreed that the project could proceed in a phased manner -- working
initially with the willing partners and anticipating that others would come on board when they saw that
there were real benefits to be had. Lending performance was marginally satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
Although project effectiveness took place more than one year after the grant agreement was negotiated,
the grant termination date was not revised, resulting in an effective four-year implementation. This
oversight was not corrected, as in any case the task team anticipated to extend the project by two years, to
allow for the implementation of the resettlement plan. In the absence of an agreement to proceed with the
scaled-up resettlement, the Bank determined that continuing for one more year would not lead to the
project achieving its objectives. Therefore, there was no justification to continue, even to restore the
"lost" 5th year of implementation. In the early period of implementation, levels of field supervision were
lower than proposed in the PD, but there was continuous contact between the TM (two consecutive TMs,
both based in Nairobi) and KWS. Supervision was carried out principally by an ecologist, a sociologist
and an environmental specialist, complemented by additional specialists, where appropriate. Additional
agricultural expertise to analyze the potential for alternative farming techniques would have been useful.
The mission reports contain guidance for implementation, as well as detailed tables of agreed actions and
target dates, which in the later years were followed closely by KWS. While the guidance was technically
appropriate, not all of it was implemented by the Borrower. Aide Memoires were used in conjunction
with the PD and annual work plans as the key guides to implementation. The risks identified at appraisal
remained on the agenda, but could not be entirely mitigated. The mid-term review (MTR), which resulted
in major modifications to the content and timing of activities within agreed components, was carried out
only 18 months after the date of effectiveness, which was early even in a four-year implementation
period. However, the Task Team showed flexibility in assessing the status of implementation of the
CCDC and its poor prospects for success as compared with the high degree of community interest in
resettlement, and agreeing to restructure the project to shift resources from the former to the latter.
The dialog between the WB task team and the GEF Secretariat (GEFSEC) on the reallocation of funding
to the expanded resettlement activities in the CCDC was highly unsatisfactory. Despite the fact that
voluntary resettlement is reported as a project element in the Project Document and discussed in all of the
supervision mission reports/Aides Memoires, including the Project Mid-Term Review, there is no record
of GEFSEC-Bank correspondence prior to mid-2001 (when the project was already operating under a
short term extension) indicating any concerns or questions about the costs associated with voluntary
resettlement. The Bank's task team seems not to have anticipated GEFSEC's objection to financing this
component at the large level required to comply with the Bank's policies (e.g. OD 4.30). In its dialog
with KWS and GOK concerning preparation of the extension request, it is clear that the WB team acted
under the assumption that GEFSEC approval should be a matter of formality as long as WB guidelines
governing the implementation of WB/GEF projects were adhered to. This assumption was based on the
- 12 -



fact that the proposed extension involved no restructuring of the project, but merely a shift in emphasis on
a particular sub-activity within one of the components (with this emphasis requiring a substantial re-
allocation of funds within the component). This assumption proved to be erroneous, however, and has
had a detrimental impact on the final project outcome due to the abrupt project closure and cancellation of
approximately two-thirds of the original grant funds. It is worth noting that the risk that GEF might not
agree to a restructuring had been rated "modest" and not "negligible" in the PSRs since early 2001. If it
had been known at the outset of resettlement planning that funding was not assured, a fallback strategy
could have been pursued to protect vulnerable stakeholders.
The decision not to grant an extension of the project, in the absence of a reallocation of funds to
implement the resettlement program, was appropriate. A continuation of research and reserve
management activities without the restoration of forests on significant patches of farmland, and reduction
of demand for forest resources was not considered to be adequate to meet project objectives.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Throughout the long project preparation, there was a high turnover of staff involved, including the senior
KWS counterpart responsible for the project (Deputy Director for Research). Following the exhaustion of
preparation funds, KWS did, however, commit staff resources to prepare a project document in line with
WB/GEF requirements, and in particular, the research agenda was elaborated well. Significant efforts
were made to ensure community participation during preparation, and in fact it was the insistence that the
community must endorse the concept and participate in preparation that led to the very long preparation
period. It must be recognized that this situation made appropriate planning of the CCDC very difficult.
However, in hindsight, it is questionable whether the planned micro-projects could ever have succeeded
in limiting pressure on the reserve, given the severe land constraints and limited opportunities for
alternative activities. The impact of current agricultural practices, and the potential for alternative
methods, were not analyzed in detail. Although resettlement (involuntary and voluntary) was debated at
length during preparation, the role of the project in supporting and financing specific relocation activities
was not clarified sufficiently. The PD is vague, and not entirely consistent in its definition of "relocation
assistance". The main text refers to "technical and financial assistance to identify and acquire alternative
land, and increase its productivity (e.g. through micro-irrigation). Annex 4 states that "the project will
pay for overheads (e.g. surveyors, legal fees, transportation) incurred in willing buyer/willing seller land
transactions". At appraisal, community dialogue was reported to have resulted in a sufficient basis for
collaboration. Nevertheless, it appears that this basis had not been reached, since previous delays in
CCDC implementation were blamed predominantly on hostility in the community. Overall, preparation
performance on the part of the Borrower was unsatisfactory.
7. 5 Government implementation performance:
The substantial changes in policy direction and emphasis in KWS during project implementation, and the
considerable internal restructuring that went along with the changes in leadership, negatively affected
project implementation. The government's official channel for granting land for relocation, through
requests at the district level, was too slow to meet the project's needs. However, acceptable land was
subsequently made available by MLS, which also demonstrated flexibility with respect to the
requirements of the project. Administrative fees, normally requested from settlers, were to be waived.
Further, rather than the ten acres allocated on a standard basis in resettlement schemes, the government
authorized 15-acre plots for the relocatees supported by the project, in view of the fact that these settlers
- 13 -



were giving up the use of fertile land resources in a national reserve to reduce pressure on the natural
habitat, and were entitled to some compensation. The government also supported project activities by
making technical expertise from other ministries available to participate in the resettlement planning.
Furthermore, the government actively sought to include other partners to improve implementation, e.g.:
obtaining the services of a private contractor to do aerial surveys when DRSRS failed to deliver, seeking
(unsuccessfully) an NGO to assist in implementation of the CCDC, and arranging for the GOK/GTZ
GASP program to implement the scaled-up resettlement component in recognition that KWS did not have
the necessary capacity (this arrangement dropped when the resettlement was not approved). Government
provided, in a satisfactory manner, overall support to KWS with respect to the above issues.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The low priority attached to TRPNR in KWS, has reduced project implementation performance. Outside
pressure applied by supervision missions, appears to have been essential to achieve progress on project
activities. Internal management, recruitment and reporting problems, as well as financial management
and procurement issues, were not addressed with sufficient urgency, but hampered project
implementation for the first two and a half years. High staff turnover further diminished project
performance. It is recognized that, following the appointment of an all KWS management team, project
implementation in the last 18 months was accelerated significantly, and progress on all components,
especially resettlement planning, was satisfactory. In the wrap-up phase, following first the suspension of
resettlement activities, and then project closure, KWS did not act with sufficient transparency. Overall,
implementing agency performance over the life of the project was unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory, consistent with the above ratings.
B. Lessons Learned
iProject Design
-   Unless local communities believe that their interests are at the heart of project design, they are
unlikely to actively support project implementation. Making the improvement of local livelihoods a
secondary objective, merely to reduce pressure on biodiversity, may be counterproductive.
-   A four-year time horizon is not sufficient to achieve significant community participation, change
livelihood strategies, and complete a voluntary relocation exercise, in a situation where community
support for the project at the outset is at best shaky and divided, especially when the executing agency has
little prior experience in managing such activities. It should be noted, however, that there were
substantial community consultation during the 8 years of preparation prior to effectiveness. Recognizing
that divisions within community opinion were likely to delay implementation of that component, the
project was designed following a phased approach. However, the four year time frame was not sufficient
to implement a phased approach.
-   The eligibility of expenditures, to promote sustainable economic development (including relocation
and related livelihood investment) as a strategy for achieving sustainable global benefits for biodiversity
conservation, must be agreed upon prior to project approval, and realistic cost estimates for such
expenditures must be included in the PD.
- 14 -



Institutional Experience and Capacity
-   Despite other shortcomings, the project did support KWS' efforts to build trust and improve
communication and collaboration with the local community. This demonstrates that even in situations
where there is a lack of trust, it is possible to have dialogue with community members, and better
participation by communities in reserve management can be achieved.
-   Complex and conflicting management and reporting lines for project staff operating in the context of
a larger institution, can cause delays in decision-making and project implementation. Clear reporting and
management lines need to be determined at the outset, and responsibilities must be unequivocally
assigned to ensure smooth project execution.
-   Administrative capacity of the implementing agency and major collaborating institutions, in carrying
out procurement, financial management and reporting, must be considered very carefully when
establishing project disbursement schedules.
-      Since resettlement was always offered as an option to the communities, and many households, in
fact, opted not to participate in the resettlement, a number of stakeholders thought it inappropriate to
apply OD4.30. The government (and some other stakeholders, such as GTZ) considered the
resettlement package expensive, and raised concerns about precedents being set, which would be
impossible to follow in future non-Bank-funded activities. A less comprehensive compensation package
might not have raised the same concern about the project having shifted all its emphasis and resources
onto resettlement activities.
Inter-institutional Coordination
-   When significant activities in the critical path, such as the research and monitoring, are to be carried
out by a cooperating institution (NMK, DRSRS), rather than directly by the executing agency (KWS), it
is essential to ensure that the operational linkages for this collaboration are clear and workable. A
functional Project Steering Committee, where inter-institutional bottlenecks can be identified and
addressed, will then be all the more important to ensure performance of all partners.
Bank-GEF Coordination
-   Conflict can arise when the Bank (as implementing agency) must follow its internal operational
policies and procedures when it comes to issues like resettlement, and GEF (as the source of funding)
chooses to not finance the implementation activities necessary for compliance with Bank policies.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Kenya Wildlife Service own assessment of the Project and its outcomes
- 15 -



A. oIrqaet Dsat
Repou EDsate          1gMI    26A 23S
Ngunne                Tana River Primate National    Granmt Number '028500
Reserve Conservation Project,
GE-P001217
Recgpeiimt            Government of Kenya            Tenrms: Grant
$eaftir               Environment/Natural Resource    onb-sector 3Biodiversity conservation
Management
kramEi JDate          'Uly 29 A997
Cle:ismg Date         July 31, 2001                 1Eztenoion Requested: June 30, 2003
Entenlsom Gramted. Six Months
from July I to Dec. 31, 2001
Actual CBosiaB: December 31, 2001
Ezueeetfiml           Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS)
agemey
nEnMDfDg              SDR 4,24 million (US$6.2       IFiunacamg PiMM
million equivalent)            GEF-5.53 million local and 0.67
millionforneign, KWS- 0.85 million
local and local communities - 0.09
million local.
I[Paielreftew: Tana River Primate National Reserve (TRPNR), the people who rely on its resources,
Kenya Wildlife Service and contracted implementing partners and collaborating agencies (National
Museums of Kenya (NMK), Department of Remote Sensing and Resource Surveys (DRSRS) and
Institute of Primate Research (IPR)
irojeet Decacwptenm: To support the conservation of a unique and diverse biological community in
Kenya. The TRPNR contains the last remaining contiguous area of indigenous riverine forest and
protects two endangered Tana Red Colobus and Tana Crested Mangabey monkeys. The project was to
demonstrate how research could assist managers to preserve a complex and fragile ecosystem- one that
very likely would not survive without active management interventions beyond simple protection. It
was to strengthen KWS' capacity to protect and manage the reserve beyond traditional sense and, to
promote greater involvement of local communities in conservation and mnanagement of an area that
represents an important but deteriorating resource for them.
-16-



B. Principal Performance Ratings
Outcome                  Most objectives not       Remarks: Project ended when
achieved.                 implementation was in top gear
Sustainability           Not sustainable           Risk of reversal of some results are high.
New interventions are required
Institutional            Minimally enhanced
Development Impact     I_                       I
Bank Performance         Satisfactory              KWS received a lot of support from the
Bank
Beneficiaries            Satisfactory              However, let down by the sudden closure
Performance                                        of the project
C. Assessment of Objectives and Design
1. Original Objective
The long-term objective was to restore the integrity of the Tana River Primate National Reserve
(TRPNR). The specific objectives included:
a)  Strengthening the capacity of KWS to protect and mange the reserve through border demarcation,
institutional capacity building and community outreach programmes;
b)  Quantifying factors (abiotic, biotic, and human) threatening the integrity of the TRPNR and its flora
and fauna;
c)  Providing solutions to the threatened integrity through interventions such as improved management,
ecological restoration and rehabilitation, community awareness raising, and development;
d)  Monitoring trends of ecological indicators and species population dynamics;
e)  Creating conservation awareness to the communities;
f)  Designing and implementing a flexible Reserve Management Plan for the TRPNR.
g)  Helping conserve forest patches occurring outside the TRPNR; and
h)  Assisting families resident in the Reserve to relocate outside on a voluntary basis.
2. Original Components
The project had three components:
a) Research and Monitoring: was to provide information necessary for making informed management
decisions and to establish a database on ecological and biodiversity parameters including key indicator
species. The component was implemented by the National Museums of Kenya (NMK), Department of
Remote Sensing and Resource Survey (DRSRS), Institute of Primate Research (IPR) and KWS. Thirteen
research proposals were identified, which together were to address priority needs for ecosystem studies,
species inventory, information management, human utilization of forest resources and population status of
endangered species:
- 17 -



i)   Forest restoration
ii)  Land-use mapping and livestock/wildlife relationships
iii)  Primate genetics
iv)  Primate survey, inventory and monitoring
v)   Avifauna inventory and monitoring
vi)  Herpetofauna inventory and monitoring
vii) Plant survey and inventories
viii) Invertebrate survey and monitoring
ix)  Mammals and vegetation monitoring
x)   Ethnobiology
xi)  Palynology
xii) Hydrological trends
xiii) Wetlands and fish ecology and resources
In addition, US$50,000 was allocated to a rapid response research fund in order to respond to requests
from management for information needed to make urgent management decisions.
b) Reserve managemeng.: was to provide incremental support to enable KWS develop an adaptive
management system that can effectively address the challenges facing sustainable management of
TRPNR area, including protection and administration. This component was implemented by KWS. Its
focus was on:
i)  improving security, management capacity and facilities;
ii)  determining priorities for management-oriented research programmes, and implementing
conservation and development recommendations arising from this research;
iii) strengthening conservation of biodiversity by supporting local initiatives to conserve unprotected
forest patches or other biologically diverse areas, and supporting community conservation projects
that would increase the supply of resources traditionally collected from forests, or alternatives;
iv) enhancing appreciation and understanding of wildlife conservation in the region by involving local
people in ecological monitoring and eco-tourism activities; and
v)  liaising with national and district bodies whose activities impact the reserve ecosystem.
c)  Community participaion and development: was to enlist the participation of the local people in the
conservation the ecology of the reserve and improve their socio-economic position. Essentially, it was
implemented by KWS and, consisted of the following elements:
i)  Small-scale community projects (micro-projects). An endowment fund of US$350,000 was to be
established to finance micro-projects beyond the life of the project.
ii)  Capacity building: An endowment fund of US$400,000 was to be established to support activities
under this element.
iii) Encouraging out-migration: US$400,000 was earmarked for this. In addition, two goodwill projects
were to be implemented.
The objectives were clear realistic and important for Kenya and the wildlife sub-sector. They were in line
with the country's policy and strategy to conserve biodiversity as well as improvement of the socio-
economic life of the local community. If realized as envisaged, they would benefit the local people, Tana
River district, Kenya and mankind.
- 18 -



D. Achievement of Objectives
Outcome/Achievement of Objective
Achievement of objectives of this project should be assessed within the context of exceptional and
complex social, economic and political environments in and a round the TRPNR. The divisions, long
standing conflicts and suspicions within the local communities greatly affected the achievement of
objectives. Although the overall objectives reflected essential priorities for conservation and management
of the TRPNR, the local social, economic and political conditions veered project implementation. As a
result, project emphasis, strategies and sequencing of activities changed. On the other hand, the
objectives allowed flexibility in response to changing constraints and opportunities.
Outputs by Components
a) Research and Monitoring
* Institutional collaborations between NMK, DRSRS IPR and KWS were enhanced. A research and
monitoring team comprising of individuals from these institutions was built. This team contributed a
great deal to the research ecological monitoring outputs and development of the Adaptive Management
Plan of TRPNR.
*: Institutional capacities of NMK and KWS to carry out research and monitoring were enhanced.
Research equipment, as well as vehicles were procured for them to use.
*:  The NMK conducted biodiversity surveys of fauna and flora in the reserve and its environs.
Comprehensive checklists of vertebrate and invertebrate species were compiled. The fauna checklists are
as follows: Fish-31, Mammals-45, Birds-135, Amphibians-9 and reptiles-12. The checklists have been
stored in computer databases at NMK and KWS.
* As a result of conducting fauna surveys, new species of catfish, Synodontis manni was discovered in
the lower Tana. One scientific paper was published in a referenced journal and one internal technical
report was prepared. The ethnobiology component documented the history of the local community and
how they use and conserve natural resources in the reserve.
*:* DRSRS carried out two livestock/wildlife surveys. Results showed that populations of Grant gazelle,
Giraffe, Ostrich, Waterbuck, Burchell' s Zebra, Elephant and Oryx had declined in Tana River District.
This was attributed to many factors including poaching and drought (DRSRS, 2001).
*:  DRSRS and Capacity Development Africa (CDA) conducted land use/cover mapping of the TRPNR
and its environs. Results from aerial photo interpretation show that in 2000 approximately 397 ha and
1883 ha were under cultivation and forest cover respectively. From 1994 aerial photographs, cultivated
land was 212 ha while the forest cover was 1,907 ha.
*:  Primate census was conducted between J anuary and March 2001. The exercise was coordinated by
IPR and participants were drawn from KWS, Moi University, Kenyatta University, East African Wildlife
Society and NMK. The census results were presented at a workshop that was on September 27, 2001.
Fifty-nine (59) groups of Crested Mangabey and 82 groups of Red Colobus were counted in the entire
range. The total population was estimated to be between 1,796 and 2,344 for Mangabey and between 736
and 841 individuals for the Red Colobus. It was estimated that 46% of the Red Colobus and 56% of the
- 19 -



Mangabey populations are inside the reserve. IPR is still working with the Kenya Primate Conservation
Group (KPCG) to produce the final report.
O   A computer database of inventories of vascular plants and vertebrates species has been established at
KWS. It uses MAB flora and MAB fauna computer software for biological inventories. A spatial
database was also being developed using Arc/info GIS software.
   Primate monitoring of the two endangered primates inside the reserve was on-going with valuable
assistance from the KPCG. The KPCG and KWS are continuing to implement this activity even after the
end of the Tana GEF project. Six research assistants are collecting data under the supervision of the
KWS Project Scientist. Plans are underway to expand primate monitoring outside the reserve.
b)FOer][eoaiin
The objective of forest restoration and research program was to restore the ecological integrity of
TRPNR. This was to be achieved though tree planting in surrendered farms, enrichment planting in
degraded forests and weed management to promote growth of naturally regenerating seedlings of target
species. Priority was given to planting in farms, as it was in those areas where great impact was
envisaged. By the time of project closure, the following had been achieved:
   A nursery with capacity to produce over 10,000 seedlings per year was established. Seedling
production was started in March 2001 and 8,534 seedlings of 12 tree species produced by end of
December 2001.
O   5,217 seedlings were outplanted by end of December 2001. About 3,784 seedlings were planted by
farmers within the reserve while the rest were planted during tree planting publicity day or issued to
individual farmers.
-.* Water pumps and delivery hose water pipes bought for watering seedlings during drought depending
on need.
**' Forest restoration capacity was enhanced by training locally recruited staff in dryland forestry,
holding training meetings for farmers and through attachment of graduate volunteer.
*.'  The tree planting publicity day, organized in collaboration with East Africa Wildlife Society (EA
WLS) was used to launch Mnazini Youth Group from the neighboring Mnazini Village and Tana Delta
Environmental Management Forum (TADEMFO).
-** 1 TADEMFO is the umbrella body for coordinating the activities of all the Community Based
Organizations (CBOs) operating within the Tana Delta and it is in the formative stage.
O   Phenological study had commenced. It was being undertaken by KWS officers and was focusing on
canopy tree species that are rated highly in the provision of food resources for primates and important
habitat components. Trees were being monitored to record foliar conditions, flowering and seed
development patterns.
O   Terms of reference for an NGO to assist in community forestry outside the reserve was developed
and submitted to World Bank.
-20 -



*: Links between KWS'and research institutions like the Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI)
has been established.
*: Research activities were linked to reserve management and community development, and local
community capacity building and participation were being strengthened.
c) Reserve Management:
*:  The general security situation in the reserve and its adjacent areas has greatly improved as a result of
pronounced KWS presence. The banditry menace that used to be there is no more. As a result, poaching
of game animals and disruptions of human life have stopped.
*: Procurement of services to prepare drawings and costing ended prematurely because the Bank could
not give KWS a 'no objection' to undertake comprehensive civil works in the reserve as envisaged in the
project proposal.
* A five-year management plan for TRPNR was prepared. A participatory planning process was used
during the preparation of plan. All key stakeholders in TRPNR ecosystem were involved in this exercise.
Two stakeholder workshops and two I technical workshops were held during the planning process.
*:  The new site for the reserve headquarters has been cleared. The 7 shades to house 21 rangers'
unipots have been put up. The water supply system and the new road to the new site are incomplete.
Movement of the warden's prefabricated to the new site is yet to be undertaken. Construction of an
office, an armory and a store had not started.
*: The airstrip at Baomo was improved; bushes were cleared and murram was added and compacted
along the landing strip/surface.
*: Rangers have been trained to use GPs and fill data sheets. They now submit reliable vegetation and
animal data to the headquarters. The data are based on what they observe when out in the field on patrols.
*: Forest destruction activities had stopped as a result of intensified ranger patrols.
*: Management Plan Implementation Committee (MPIC) had been established. This committee would
replace the defunct Joint Reserve Management Committee (JRMC). The objective of having the MPIC
was to assist the Warden-in-charge to manage the TRPNR ecosystem. Members of the committee include
the county council, community members, NGO and GOK officers.
*: The court case between the community and KWS over "ownership" and management of the reserve
has not been determined. The court is yet to give a notification of the next hearing date. In the meantime,
the reserve borders have been demarcated.
d) Community Participation and Development:
*: Several meetings with the community members, local leaders, county council and government
officials were held in the initial stages of project implementation. It is through these meetings that
awareness creation and education about the project were undertaken. This process took long and delayed
project implementation due to diverse community perceptions and conflicting interests.
*: Participatory Rural appraisal (PRA) was undertaken.
- 21 -



oOo Two local institutions were created to assist project implementation; the Voluntary Relocation
Assistance Unit (VRAU) and the Host Committee.
-o A resettlement plan was developed and the World Bank approved it. The plan followed the World
Bank Involuntary Settlement Guidelines.
O   Environmental Impact Assessment (ELA) of the proposed resettlement programme of 247 families at
Witu 11 was undertaken and the Bank approved the report.
-vo The Government of Kenya allocated three parcels of land for purposes of resettling the people
living/dependent on the TRPNR. These are Witu 11 Settlement Scheme, Lango la Simba and Danisa
Galili.
4*' A total of 6,000 acres of land at Witu II Settlement Scheme have been surveyed and demarcated.
These include, 274 farm plots and 247 house plots and the rest are for public utilities.
*oo The District Settler Selection Committee has allocated the farm and house plots to the 247 relocating
families. Letters of allotment and title deeds are yet to be given to these families.
-o'o Building materials for Hara Primary School have been procured and delivered on site. The
community is mobilizing funds to start construction work.
-**  Community-Based Animal Health Care (CBAHC) work for the Wardei pastoralists by the Catholic
Diocese of Garissa with the support of Relief Services (CRS) and KWS had started. Curriculum
development, socio-economic data collection and selection of 10 youths to train had been completed. The
drug store has been put up in the village and the initial drugs and kits have been procured and delivered.
CRS through the Diocese of Garissa will fund the actual training and follow-up activities.
4*o The Ministry of Lands and Settlement is preparing of letters of allotment and title deeds to be issued
to the 247 families. After this process, each family will legally own 15 acres of farmland and 0.25 of an
acre of house plot.
   KWS, GOK and GTZ together planned to implement the resettlement programme. They reached
agreement to contract the GTZ most of the work, since GTZ has over 20 years' experience settling
landless Kenyans in the same area. Thereafter, a 'no objection' from the Bank to contract GTZ was not
given.
In addition to the 247 families, about 200 more families had expressed interest in resettlement.
E. l[ussfidtutommO IDevelopmneimt Emlmpct
The project's institutional development was modest. Beside the vehicles, computers and equipment,
KWS personnel received on job training and experience in research and monitoring, reserve management
using improved technologies and community development.
-22 -



F. Major Factors that affected implementation and outcome
These were:
a)  Local politics.
b)  El nino rains in 1997 and learly 1998.
c)  Emphasis on resettlement not only expanded the community component but also shifted the focus of
the whole project.
d)  Freezing and staggering of implementation of some components.
e)  Umealistic time frame of four years.
f)  Policy shift on funding resettlement and consequently the whole project.
G. Cost and Financing
Low spending was recorded between 1997 and 1999. This is attributed to scaling down of the activities
in the research and monitoring, and reserve management components to allow the community component
to catch up. Natural phenomenon such as the El Nino rains of 1997/98 affected the rate at which
activities could be implemented. Delay in implementation was also affected by the long time it took to
enter into agreement with partner institutions (DRSRS and NMK) on modalities of implementing project
activities. However, despite these shortcomings, there was improvement in spending during 2000/2001
financial year partly because of accelerated implementation of the research and community components
and also because of receiving funding through the project account.
H. Sustainability
TransitionalArrangements to Regular Operation
*: Letters of allotment and title deeds will be issued to 247 families. Pressure on the reserve will
reduce if this number of families moves to Witu 11 Settlement Scheme.
*: Adaptive management plan will be revised and implemented on a reduced scale. KWS will enhance
security and law enforcement in the reserve.
*: KWS will continue with research and ecological monitoring activities in the reserve. It will work
closely with Primate Conservation Group to monitor the primates. Similarly, it will work closely with
other partners to undertake research and monitor the reserve ecosystem.
*: KWS and partners will jointly develop fundable proposals.
I. Government of Kenya Performance
The Government Of Kenya through its Ministry of Lands and Settlement did set aside land for
resettlement of the farming community at Tana River Primate National Reserve. The Tana River District
administration led the land identification exercise and it steered the Voluntary Relocation Assistance Unit
(VRAU). The GOK assisted in ground water surveys at Witu II resettlement scheme and preparation of
building designs. GOK also sent an appeal to GEF to extend the project to safeguard the gains made
during the implementation of the project. The performance of GOK was good.
- 23 -



J.0 BEnlk Perni0rmnime
The Bank conducted regular supervision/review visits. These visits built pressure on KWS to deliver.
The Bank reviewed project performance and advised on necessary subsequent actions. The relationship
between the Bank and KWS was good.
1. Community participation and commitment cannot be hurried or forced to adhere to externally
imposed timetable, but must proceed at the pace set by the community.
2.  The vulnerability of extemally funded big conservation projects to external policy changes and
forces. There can be detrimental shifts in commitment and change of mind on the part of donors.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
DGo Addifimonm nfrormlatim
-24 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IC .ndIc tarIMabi      .          .PrJecr d'in latPSR         ;       , ectdual nat E ntsna  .
Ecological integnty of the TRNPR and forest Dedine in habitat qualbty and quantity slowed Habitat quarity and quantity has slightly
habitats increased as reflected by Increase in or eliminated and vulnerabilty of prlmate  declined and vulnerability of pilmate
quality, quantity and connectivity of habitats  populations reduced A measurable reduction populabtions has slightly increased. Primate
and stability of primate populations and social in pressure on critical habitats achieved.  habitat quantity has dedined by at least 5
structure.                                                                percent both inside and outside of the
Reserve. Human needs for and competition
with target spedes for forest resources have
not decreased within the project zone.
2. A viable basis for cooperative management KWS capacity for implemenUng a cooperatve KWS capacity for managing community
of the TRNPR and crHical habitats within the reserve management regime increased and  dialogue has increased, but - folovwing
project zone has been established.   community particlpation strengthened  cancellaion of resettlement plan -
signlflcantly. An adaptive management  community resentment makes ongoing
system based on knowledge of ecological  dialogue difficult. Cooperative management
processes and resources developed and  has only partialty been Implemented. A draft
draft plan submitted. A functional reserve  adaptive management plan has been
management unit In place.            developed refecting interim research resuls
The joint reserve management committee Is
not funcional at project closure.
3.Physical security and economic wellbeing  Insecurity In TRPNR mitigated through KWS Security has Increased due to KWS
of residents In and around the reserve  presence                          presence. AKtemative livelihood options have
Increased                            Communiy welfare increased through   not been realized. Access to aKtemative land
Improved sustainabl livelihoods In and  resources has been partially achieved, but
around the reserve, and through successful successful relocation of all partidpants In the
voluntary relocation to lands with secure  resettement program is not guaranteed.
tenure rights.
.4.Resettement of 247 families (about 60%  signfficant progress was being made to  Resettlement plans were completed.
of those now utilizing reserves natural  acoomplish this task.            Compensation hafted. Tltbing of land and
resources) complet                                                        preparation land title deeds was in progress.
lssuance of titles will proceed with support
from Govemment
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR               ActuallLatest Estniate
'I
Improved knowedge of the biological  Baseline studies of flora and fauna  10 of the 13 studies described In the PD
composition of TRNPR and the project zone. oompleted                      undertaken. Baseline field studies completed.
Final reports pending.
Identification of critical biological and  Definition of spedfic indicators for ecological Some indicators defined. Monitoring program
ecologtcal elements for monitoring and a  monitoring; design and implementation of a  designed and implemented for primates and
sustainable montoring program In place.  monitoring program.              habitat quality Hydrological studies and
monitoring program not implemented.
Security of reserve area improved. KWS'  Addffonal rangers posted to reserve and  An addrional 7 rangers and a senior warden
capaclty to protect and manage the Reserve  provided with necessary training and  posted to the reserve In 1998. Rangers
strengthened (through improved and effective equipment                    trained in the use of basic monitoring
utilization of personnel and non-personnel                                techniques Close liaison established with
resources).                                                               local authorfties and adjacent communities.
Patrols and reporbng Improved. Follow up
acions by management documented. Use of
GPS and computer
Improved infrastructure for research and  Adequate faclfltes to support research,  Physical faclfldes improved and funcdonal:
reserve management within the TRNPR.  monioring and reserve management    Water and electrical supplies upgraded at
established.                         Mchebleo Research camp. Reserve
headquarters construction not completed but
expected to be In April 2002. Construction
completed by March 2002: perimeter fenoe
around HQ oompound, new road entrance,
rellable water supply, shade structures to
- 25 -



accommodate 21 ranger unipots, storage
shed/motor pool. Reserve airsp upgmded.
An Adaptive Management Plan for the  AMP developed, endorsed by communities  AMP prepared but not yet endorsed by
Reserve and forests within the project zone  and operational as a frmework for  communitfes. Consequencas of projed
develped, endorsed by community and  cooperative management of the Reserve and closure on availability of funding and
under implementation.                adjacant criUcal habitats.           femmiand for forest restoration not fully
incorporated in the AMP.
A forest restoration program set-up to  A nursery and forest program started In  A nursery established near Mchabxo
enhance habitat quality and quantity.  TRPNR and forest enrchment undertaken.  Research Camp Some replanting
undertaken in abandoned farmland of
famiGies preparing to relocate. Nursery now
operated by two local assistants recruited
under the project and retained by KWS, and
producing seedlings for restration and
enrichment planting.
A partidpatory co-ordination mechanism  A Joint Reserve Management Commitee  JRMC consfituted In 1995 and mat
established to advise on matters pertaining to (JRMC) established with representatives  frequently, but elected community
the management of TRPNR.             from KWS, local govemment and elected  represntatives only replaced appointed
community representatives to meet quarterty, members in early 1998. Since August 1998,
and to attend to conflict resolution and  JRMC not operational. The AMP refers to the
provide a forum for community partidpation. nead to reconsttute this forum to implemnt
the Plan.
Altemative livelihood base estabiished for  Participatory establishment of Communiy  CAPs developed in late 1999 through PRA
residents within and adjacent to the reserve  Acion Plans (CAPs) and Implementaton of processes, but the output was not oonsidered
through the implementaton of microprojects microprolects selected in the CAPs.  an adequate basis for implementation. No
and Income generating acthivtes based on  Identficaton and plioting of aiternative  micro-projects developed. No altenmative
the sustainable use of resources wthin and  livelihood strategies which do not threaten the lIelihood options identified within the project
outside of the reserve.              sustainability of the reserve Determinaton of zone. No sustainable use strategies for
sustainable use levels for reserve resources reserve resources and forest resources
by local residents and strategies to foster  within the project zone established.
sustainable resource use established.
Voluntary out migraton of communities  Altemative land made available expediiously Atemative land made available In Project
farming In the reserve supported and  by GOK and voluntary out-migration  Year-3 (1999). A resettlment plan drafted In
undertaken to reduce pressure on reserve  supported through legal, financial and  line with WB guidelines (OD 4.30) and
resources                            technical assistance to Identify and acquire  accepted by 247 families. An addditonal 100
aitemave land and increase its productMvty. families expressed Interest to partidpate In
resettlement The plan was not implemented
and only letters of allotment and eventually
tiffle deeds will ba issued to the 247 families.
GoodwIll projects completed to encouraga  Two goodwil projects (one for each locaton) One goodwill project (Wenje, school
community co-operaton with the project and implmented Immediately after projact  administrative block) completed over the
KWS.                                 effectiveness                        course of the project
Endowment Funds established which ensure A Microproject endowment fund (US$  No endowment funds established. After stow
ontinued funding for projects to reduce  350.000) and an Education Endowment Fund start to establish the funds, the concantraton
pressure on the reserve after project dosure. (US$400.000) established.    on resettlement put preparation of the
endowment funds on hold.
Effective management stucture put In place Management structure buit up In KWS,  Integration of extemal experts Into the KWS
to ensure smooth Implementaton of project  drawing on expertie of seleded outside  management structure not succassful.
actvities and ensure sustalnabilty beyond  experts working dosely with and wihin the  Folowing the appointment of an allWS
project closures.                    structures of KWS departments.       team. implementation performance Improved
significantly over the last two years. Most
staff now reassigned to other activitlas, and
sustainability therefore questionable.
Effectve project co-ordination mechanisms in Project Steering Commitee (PSC) formed  PSC fomted, but records exist of only one
place for stakeholder dialogue and   with KWS, GoK, research and NGO      meeting held in 1998, which approved the
communication.                       representatives. Meaengs held quarterty to  annual wortplan and confrmed some
act as a projact executive board, ensure  appointments. PSC not functional throughout
effective cllaboraton, review appointmants  most of the Implementation paeiod.
and contracts, oversee monitorlng and
evaluaton, approve annual workplans and
resolve any issues In implementation.
End of project
- 26-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
aAppraisal -I ActuallLatest,', P onte oF
I                 :                  ,^ ,,        ,, ,Esttiftatel-  Estimate  Apraisai
',,"i-w"': " --Irl  'Pw; tCost By C'omponent* US$ million    LUS$ illion iffl6n__l.__:
Research & Monitoring                                 1.46           0.36           0.25
Reserve Management                                    1.47           0.46           0.31
Community Conservation and Development                2.43           0.37           0.15
Project Coordination and Management                   0.39           0.72          0.018
Total Baseline Cost                                   5.75           1.91
Physical Contingencies                               0.09
Price Contingencles                                  0.36
Total Project Costs              6.20            1.91
Total Financing Required               6.20           1.91
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$000)
Item                ICB          NCB         Other'        Total
Civil Works                                808.50                    808.50
(735.00)                  (735.00)
Vehicles and Equipment*      115.00        243.00       147.20       505.20
(115.00)      (243.00)    (135.00)      (493.00)
Consultants' Services and                              1,755.00     1,755.00
training_                                             (1,755.00)   (1,755.00)
Goods, works and services                              1,600.00     1,600.00
for Microprojects"4                                   (1,600.00)   (1,600.00)
Relocation Assistance**"_                              440.00        440.00
(440.00)     (440.00)
Operating Costs                                        1,412.40     1,412.40
________________________   ___________  ___________    (1,177.00)   (1,177.00)
Total                        115.00       1,051.50     5,973.20     7,139.70
_  (115.00)     (978.00)     (5,107.00)   (6,200.00)
* Vehicles and Equipment & Consultants' Services and training have been merged into I category.
* Goods, works and services for Microprojects & Relocation Assistance have been split into 2 categories.
- 27 -



IProject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actudal) (US$000)
Item                I[CB          NCB          Other'        Total
Civil Works                                             284.00        284.00
(229.40)      (229.40)
Vehicles and Equipment       178.00        61.00        210.00        449.00
(160.20)       (54.90)      (181.84)      (396.94)
Consultants' services and                               516.60        516.60
training                                                (516.60)      (516.00)
Goods, works and services                               137.17        137.17
for Microprojects                                      (118.21)       (118.21)
Relocation Assistance                                   115.83        115.83
(115.83)      (115.83)
Operating costs                                         429.00        429.00
. _______________________  ____________   ____________  (385.97)      (385.97)
Total                        178.00        61.00        1,692.60      1,931.60
_  (160.20)       (54.90)     (1,547.85)    (1,760.35)
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the GEF Grant. All costs include contingencies.
Project Financing by Component (In USS million equivalent)
J / X                                                         i;, Jr  N ;; ; ^ ~  44 t i  s  W rl15|f-<vt l; JPercentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Etlnmate__       Actual/Latest Estimate
Bnnk      Gost   - CoF.      Bank      GovL      CoF.    Bank   GovL    CoF.
Research & Monitoring    1.63      0.03               0.22      0.02               13.5   66.7
Reserve Management       1.66      0.73               0.35       0.06             21.1    8.2
Community Conservatlon   2.49      0.13               0.27      0.03               10.8   23.1
and Development
Project Coordination and  0.42     0.05               0.52       0.08             123.8  160.0
Management
-28 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 29-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle              No. of Persons and Specialty         Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year   Count          Specialty                   Progress    Objective
Appraisal/Negotiation
1995                      5   ECOLOGIST,
ANTHROPOLOGIST,
RESEARCH SPECIALIST
PROTECTED AREAS
MGMT SPECIALIST
Supervision
1997                       2  NRM, ECOLOGIST                   S           S
1998                       6  NRM, NGO SPECLkLIST,            U            U
SOCIOLOGIST, RESEARCH
MANAGEMENT
CONSULTANT, FMS,
PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
1999                       7  NRM, RESETTLEMENT               U            U
SPECIALISTS, ECOLOGIST,
PARK MNGT SPECIALIST,
FMS, PROCUREMENT
SPECIALIST
2000                       8   NRM, ECOLOGIST, EIA             U            U
SPECIALIST,
RESETTLEMENT
SPECIALIST,
SOCIOLOGIST,FMS,
PROCUREMENT
2001                       3   NRM,ECOLOGIST,SOCIOL            S            U
DEV.SPECIALIST
ICR
2002                      3    NR ECONOMIST,                   U            U
BIODIVERSITY
SPECIALIST,
ENVIRONMENTAL
SPECIALIST
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks            US$ ('000)
Appraisal/Negotiation                 21.5                    85,100
Supervision                          114.5                   145,300
ICR                                   12.2                    14,700
Total                                175.5                   289,200
-30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
Sector Policies                    O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Physical                          O H OSU*M O N O NA
0 Financial                         O H OSUOM * N O NA
Z Institutional Development         O H 0 SU * M 0 N 0 NA
Z Environmental                     O H OSU*M O N O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction            OH OSUOM ON O NA
ZGender                        OH OSUOM ON ONA
M Other (Please specify)       OH OSUOM ON O NA
z Private sector development        0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
2 Public sector management          O H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
MOther (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 31 -



AimIIen 6. 1Ratk g$OT lBIMn ainid BIorrower Pewrfoiru   e
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
(3 Lending                                           OHS Os        OLu   OHU
3 Supervision                                        OHS OS        O U   O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS Os O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
z Preparation                                        OHS OS        OU    OHU
53Government implementation performance              OHS OS        OU    0 HU
3 Implementation agency performance                  OHS Os        O u   O HU
3 Overall                                            OHS Os O u O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
KENYA: Tana River Primate National Reserve
Implementation Completion Mission. March 11 - March 27, 2002
AIDE MEMOIRE
An FAO/WB Cooperative Programme Mission composed of Astrid Agostini (Natural Resource
Economist, FAO, Team Leader) and Ken Creighton (Conservation Biologist, Consultant) visited Kenya
from March 11-27, 2002 to prepare the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Tana River
Primate National Reserve project (the Project). The mission worked closely with KWS and held
discussions with other key institutions involved in project implementation. Institutions consulted
included the National Museums of Kenya (NMK), including its Institute of Primate Research (IPR), the
Department of Resource Surveys and Remote Sensing (DRSRS), the Tana River County Council
(TRCC), the East African Wildlife Society (EAWS), the Ministry of Lands and Settlements and GTZ.
The mission also consulted the former directors of KWS - Dr. Leakey, Dr. Western and Dr. Rotich. A
close liaison was maintained with the World Bank (WB) Task Team Leader.
The mission undertook a field visit to the Reserve and the seat of the district administration in Hola as
well as to the resettlement scheme Witu II. The mission would like to thank KWS and co-operating
agencies for the excellent arrangements made during the field visit and for support provided in the
preparation of this report. The mission's preliminary findings are reported in this Aide Memoire. All
findings are subject to confirmation and revision in the final ICR.
Methodology
The mission assembled this report drawing on the insight gained from meeting with numerous
stakeholders in Tana and Nairobi, a review of extensive documentation made available by the KWS
management team and the World Bank including progress reports, technical reports, work plans and key
correspondence as well as supervision mission Aide Memoires, Project Status Reports and Back-to-Office
reports.
Background
The project became effective in July 1997. Although the project document foresaw an implementation
period of five years, the grant and project documents signed in February 1997 stipulate June 30, 2001 as
the date for grant termination. During the Mid Term Review (MTR), carried out in December 1998, it
was agreed to slow down research and reserve management related activities pending progress on
identifying suitable land for resettlement. These other activities picked up with full pace again in 2000.
At the point of closure, the project had reached its high point of activity - an adaptive reserve
management plan had been prepared in consultation with stakeholders and was awaiting endorsement,
and the preparations for the voluntary relocation of 247 families farming inside the reserve had been
finalized. KWS and the WB had prepared and expected a two year extension to complete project
activities. The WB consulted the Global Environment Facility (GEF) regarding a reallocation of the
original resources to finance the resettlement plan developed in conformance with WB policies
regulations on involuntary resettlement. As the GEF indicated reluctance to authorize use of GEF funds
for voluntary resettlement activities, the WB granted a six months extension to allow further dialogue and
to explore alternative funding options. This dialogue was not successful and hence the project was closed
on December 31, 2001 leaving the implementation of the adaptive management plan and the resettlement
-33 -



plan in suspension. The abrupt closure of the project 4 and 1/2 years into implementation has been an key
factor influencing project accomplishments and hence the conclusions reflected in this Aide Memoire.
Asswsmenat of Developmenet Olb ectfive and TDhesigm, amd QuaAty at Eatnry
GrigiSal Gbeeive
The objectives of the project were to conserve the unique biological community of the Tana River
riparian forests, to incorporate the results of targeted research and monitoring into management of a
fragile and complex ecosystem and to reduce identified threats to ecological integrity and survival of the
forest ecosystem. It was recognized that to achieve these objectives it would be necessary to identify and
implement an effective management program for the forest ecosystem taking into account the interests of
the full range of stakeholders affected by the project with a specific focus on people living within and
adjacent to the Tana River Primate National Reserve (TRPNR). These objectives remained unchanged
throughout the project.
It was recognized during project preparation that options to maintain and restore the lower Tana River
forests are constrained by changing ecological conditions created by upstream dams and diversions of the
river during recent decades that have led to shrinkage in riparian forest cover and diminution of
agricultural potential within the project zone. Changes in flow volume and seasonality of flooding have
and are affecting the area on which forests can grow. Some die-off of forests in the project zone is the
result of changes in ground water levels caused by changes in the flow volume and flood regime induced
by upstream developments. Similarly, development of new forest patches via natural succession driven
by river meandering has been reduced. These same hydrological changes affect the viability of
agricultural land within the riparian zone. Thus, the amnount of viable land for both natural forest growth
and agriculture has declined during the past two decades, resulting in increased competition for usable
land and more intense human harvesting of resources within the remaining forest patches.
A key element to achieving the project objectives was the engagement of communities living within and
adjacent to the TRPNR and other stakeholders in a systematic, continuous and transparent dialog to
identify options and resolve issues related to use of scarce land and biological resources within the project
area. Upon identification of technically sound and socially acceptable measures to reconcile human needs
for resources and ecological requirements for maintaining viability of the forest biota, the project was to
finance their implementation in full compliance with relevant policies of the Government of Kenya, the
World Bank and the Global Enviromnent Facility. From the early stages of project identification it was
recognized that some voluntary human resettlement was going to be required to strike an ecological
balance that would pennit maintenance of adequate forest quantity and quality to sustain the endangered
primate species endemic to the region and some Pokomo families had already indicated their interest in
voluntary relocation at the time of project preparation. Sustainability of project achievements was to be
assured by adoption of a flexible management regime to be implemented in confornance with an
Adaptive Management Plan to be agreed among the stakeholders and informed by project sponsored
scientific studies. Implementation of the management plan was to be under the leadership of the Kenya
Wildlife Service with meaningful participation of local institutions such as the Tana River County
Council, the regional development authority and the residents of local communities represented by elected
representatives. The outcome of project activities was to result in measurably increased ecological
security of the forest biota and sustainability of the management regime as reflected by key indicators and
demonstrably increased economic security and well-being of local residents.
- 34 -



Original components
Research and Monitoring: Supporting necessary baseline studies to identify the composition and status
of flora and fauna within the TRNPR and adjacent forest and aquatic habitats and the underlying factors
affecting their present status and constraining future management options. The research program was to
address five priority areas:
(a)  monitoring of primate populations, genetics and habitat parameters;
(b)  baseline and monitoring surveys of flora and fauna;
(c)  studies and monitoring of the Tana River hydrological system and its ecological effects (on aquatic
and riparian ecological communities);
(d)  human resource utilization (to establish sustainable use levels for forest products); and,
(e)  prospects and methods for promoting and facilitating community-based conservation of remaining
forest patches outside the Reserve boundaries.
Implementation was to be guided by a Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC).
Reserve Management: Supporting development of an adaptive management system to restore the
integrity of the TRNPR and maintain or enhance the habitat quality and productive potential of adjacent
riverine forests along the lower Tana River. The reserve management component was to include:
(a)  measures to enhance security within the reserve and adjacent areas;
(b)  measures to reduce poaching and agricultural encroachment in the reserve;
(c)  improvement of physical facilities for reserve management, research and monitoring;
(d)  establishment of consultative and advisory bodies such as the Joint Reserve Management
Committee (JRMC) and the Community Advisory Committee (CAC) to involve local communities
in planning and management of project activities; and
(e)  preparation and implementation of an Adaptive Management Plan (AMP) for the Reserve with
significant input from research studies and incorporating a rigorous and sustainable monitoring
regime for key indicators related to the core project objectives.
Implementation was to be guided by the JRMC.
Community Conservation and Development Conponent (CCDC): the specific objectives of the CCDC
were to build support among local communities and reduce pressure on reserve resources. This was to be
achieved by:
(a) supporting alternative livelihoods through the implementation of microprojects and income
generating activities based on the sustainable use of resources within and outside of the reserve;
(b)  to encourage voluntary out migration of communities farming in the reserve by identifying and
acquiring alternative land and increasing its productivity.
The communities immediately affected by the project are sedentary farmers (Pokomo) and pastoralists
(Wardei). One Pokomo village only is located inside the reserve (Baomo village). Other Pokomo
settlements are adjacent to the reserve, but occupy some farm land inside the reserve. The Wardei occupy
a village adjacent to the reserve (Hara) and use reserve resources for emergency grazing. With respect to
their attitude to the project the affected communities fell into three groups- those opposed to the project,
those co-operating with the project and inclined to participate in voluntary relocation and those co-
operating with the project but unwilling to leave their land in or around the reserve. Membership in these
groups varied throughout the project. While the Wardei uniformly belonged to the last group, the local
-35 -



Pokomo community was split across the three different groups. The village of Baomo remained hostile to
the project throughout implementation. No other specific explanatory characteristics were identified by
which the various Pokomo households differed across the three groups. Component implementation was
to be guided and monitored by the Community Advisory Committee (CAC) comprising KWS and NGO
stakeholders. Voluntary relocation activities were to be co-ordinated by a Voluntary Relocation
Assistance Unit (VRAU).
Quality at Eimtry
The interdependent activities of the individual components (research and monitoring, reserve
management and community development) provided a solid conceptual basis for achieving the objectives.
While conceptually sound, the tight cross-linkage among components also contributed to the risk of
delays in overall implementation if individual components failed to keep pace with the others. Factors
determining the pace at which each component could be implemented were functionally independent (see
discussion below). It was recognized at appraisal that the extensive engagement of communities in a
systematically managed formal dialog intended to develop a plan for joint management of biological
resources within and outside of the Reserve represented a fundamental change in approach from previous
KWS methods and practices. It was also recognized that given the declining forest and arable land
resource base, competition for increasingly scarce viable land and forest resources within the project zone
was likely and that tradeoffs would need to be identified. Given the limited experience of KWS with "co-
management" and negotiation of resource allocation, as well as the acknowledged diversity of opinions
and attitudes toward the project among residents of the project zone, it might have been anticipated that
the community development component would be the " rate limiting" factor during implementation.
Sequencing of project activities rather that simultaneous implementation of all three components is an
option that appears not to have been considered during project design and appraisal.
During project appraisal and negotiation it was agreed that final versions of ecological and socio-
economic monitoring indicators would be provided prior to effectiveness, but this was not accomplished.
The lack of agreed indicators over most of the project implementation cycle appears to have limited the
performance of both KWS implementation and Bank supervision during project execution.
During the early phases of implementation, project staff reported through multiple reporting lines.
However, the senior management authority stopped at the Deputy Director for Research and Planning
rather than the Director of KWS. This probably resulted in less overall policy guidance and priority
setting from the Director's office than was required to push progress and troubleshoot problems on this
complex project. A direct reporting line to the Director would also have been more appropriate given
early recognition that the project encompassed KWS's key policies and strategies at the time and would
provide an excellent opportunity to pilot KWS's "ecosystem/conservation area" approach, the new
"partnership" approach and the integration of research into protected area management.
Although it was agreed that a Community Advisory Committee, consistent with Terms of Reference
included in the Project Document (PD), was to be established prior to project effectiveness this was not
done until August 2000. The benefits that were foreseen through operation of the CAC (dialog with
NGOs and effective dissemination of reliable information about project objectives and activities) were,
therefore, not realized. This may have indirectly contributed to some of the negative press and
community polarization that took place during project irnplementation. Despite agreements reached
during appraisal (reaffirned during negotiations) about the need for robust indicators to monitor
progress, the need for a transparent channel for information flow and dialog (the CAC), and a need for top
level policy guidance from KWS (e.g. Director level) the absence of these factors led to a "quality at
effectiveness" that, in retrospect, must be considered unsatisfactory.
-36 -



Achievement of Objectives and Outputs
Outcome/Achievement of Objective
The overall development objective of ensuring the survival of threatened biodiversity of global
significance within the project region has been only partially met. As key indicators, the two species of
globally threatened primates occurring within the project zone have maintained their population levels
during the period of project implementation. However, habitat that is critical for the survival of these
indicator species and, by extension, the rest of the biological elements that comprise this habitat, has
declined during the project period. Estimates vary, but the consensus is that overall habitat quantity and
quality within and outside of the reserve has declined, though the rate of decline may have moderated
during the project period, in particular within the Reserve boundaries. Project sponsored research has
yielded data that suggest the level of vulnerability of at least one of the target species (red colobus) has
increased. Human activities that are incompatible with long term survival of the primates and the forest
habitats upon which their survival depends have also increased within the project zone during
implementation. The consensus of the research community is that the primate populations as well as the
forests upon which they depend remain potentially viable at the time of project closure. However, given
that the project did not resolve the underlying driving factor of human encroachment within and
destruction of the critical habitats, the prospects for medium or long term sustainability of the status quo
or improvement of the prospects for survival of the target elements are uncertain.
Following the cancellation of the resettlement program, the primary stakeholders in and around the
reserve who have collaborated with the project are significantly worse off. In anticipation of relocation,
many Pokomo families had abandoned their farms inside the reserve. They are now in a state of limbo
surviving mainly on food aid and remittances, abused and mocked by other community members who had
opposed the project from the beginning. Letters of allotment will be provided to the families who had
signed up for resettlement. However, this is a small benefit compared to the hardship and destitution
these families are faced with at the end of the project. It is unlikely that all families will take up the new
land in Witu II in the absence of even the most basic of support for relocation including the formal
showing of the land and the creation of access to the farmland which is fully overgrown with bush. The
co-operating Wardei pastoralists in Hara village adjacent to the reserve who were to benefit from micro-
projects and alternative grazing land have received a pile of stones for a school but no further funds to
undertake construction. They will also benefit from some improvements in community based animal
health care. No alternative dry season grazing land was set aside for exclusive use by the Hara people as
had been envisaged in the original resettlement plan. During consultations with district authorities it was
agreed that the identified land could not be made available for exclusive use by the Wardei at it was
traditionally used by various groups. However, the availability of dry season grazing on communally
used land was deemed to be sufficient, and resource use conflicts with the reserve were minimal. The
Adaptive Management Plan makes specific allowance for use of parts of the reserve for grazing and stock
watering during periods of severe drought conditions. Such use is considered compatible with overall
Reserve management goals.
Outputs by Components
Project Co-ordination and Management: The Director, Research and Planning Department of KWS
oversaw the management of the project. Originally, a dual co-ordination structure was proposed: A small
number of externally recruited staff were to be funded by the project, including the Project Co-ordinator
(PC), the Senior Research Scientist (SRS), the Community Development Specialist (CDS), a Data
Analyst, Agroforester and Forest Restoration Research Officer all of whom would report administratively
-37-



to the PC. On technical aspects, however, the project staff as well as the regular KWS staff involved in
project implementation were to report to the appropriate KWS line managers in the technical departments.
Recruitment of key project staff suffered significant delays. While the PC was recruited in July 1997 and
the SRS joined the project in November 1997 it was only in August 1998 that management in the reserve
was upgraded by posting a senior warden. The CDS was not recruited until July 1998 and the
Community Partnership Officer only came on board in March 1998. Community Mobilisers (CMs) were
only contracted in 1999. Some project positions were never filled (Agroforester) or only for parts of the
project life (Data Analyst, Forest Restoration Officer). Throughout project implementation, staff turnover
was high including three project co-ordinators, two field activities co-ordinators, two forestry officers,
three accountants and, at the highest level, five Deputy Directors of Research and Planning and four
Directors of KWS. The dual reporting lines (to the PC and to technical departnent heads) designed to
ensure a close integration of Tana River GEF project activities into the regular work program of KWS led
to problems in the earlier years of implementation as some technical department managers expected to
have full control over staff activities and project resources which conflicted with the mandate of the PC.
The "outsider status" of the PC and other project staff slowed down early implementation. A lack of
familiarity with KWS procedures on the part of project staff was exacerbated by reduced co-operation of
KWS insiders who resented their privileged position. Following approval in principle by the WB
supervision mission in December 1999, project positions including the PC post were filled with regular
KWS staff smoothing internal management procedures. The KWS management team which oversaw
project implementation in the last 1-2 year of the project has significantly increased the level of activity
and implementation performance compared to early project stages. They adhered to tight schedules to
produce complex deliverables including contributions from many partner institutions, particularly in the
context of the resettlement activities. Although the "outsider management" issue was thus resolved the
project continued to be perceived as a set of interventions implemented separately from other KWS
activities.
The overall direction of the project was to be guided by the Project Steering Committee (PSC), composed
of key KWS staff, NMK, East Africa Wildlife Society (EAWS), African Centre for Conservation (ACC),
Tana River Development Authority (TARDA) and National Environment Secretariat (NES) and chaired
by the Director of KWS. The committee was to meet quarterly, advise on policy and implementation,
approve staffimg and workplans and review project progress. A meetings was held in November 1997
which confirmed staff appointments and reviewed the first annual workplan. KWS holds no records or
minutes of further PSC meetings.
A project monitoring and evaluation plan was not prepared until May 2001 and was never implemented.
However, certain technical indicators such as primate populations were monitored throughout project
implementation (see Research and Monitoring) and terms of references for independent monitoring and
evaluation of the planned resettlement activities were prepared. It was planned to broaden the scope of
this monitoring and evaluation study to cover all project activities.
IReseaacc amdMora orimg: The objectives of this component were:
(a)  to establish an adequate baseline against which to evaluate project performance in terms of
conserving biodiversity;
(b)  to provide results to be used as input into the development of an adaptive management plan for the
Reserve and adjacent critical habitats;
(c)  to design a monitoring program for key biodiversity, habitat, land use and forest product use
indicators that could be used to measure project impact and that could be sustained after project
closure to monitor that status of the biological environment.
-38 -



The project has made significant progress in meeting intermediate milestones toward achievement of the
overall objectives. Early termination of the project after four and one-half years of implementation has,
however, resulted in a number of outputs for this component not being carried through to completion at
the time of the ICR mission. The project design lacked sufficient indicators by which to measure
expected outputs. The project mid-term review (MTR), however, outlines a number of specific objectives
(including finalizing impact indicators) and target actions that were agreed. Accomplishment of the target
actions and an assessment of their contributions toward meeting the objectives agreed during the MTR
can be used as a surrogate for impact indicators. Implementation of this component has been negatively
affected by two factors. First, substantial delays in financial reporting by NMK led to slow replenishment
of the imprest account that was set up to effect payments for NMK implemented activities. The
consequent lack of liquidity of funds effected both field schedules and purchase of essential supplies and
equipment. The second factor affecting NMK performance was the apparent lack of an effective
coordination mechanism within NMK to coordinate the complex schedules and demands of individual
researchers to carry out their baseline studies. Field work would have benefited from a comprehensive
annual work program and schedule which clearly identified the logistic implications of the work program
and on which agreement with KWS could have been sought.
Thirteen specific studies were identified in the Project Document of which 1O were carried out during the
project. Several additional studies were identified commissioned and carried out under the project.
Design and coordination of the project research and monitoring plan was accomplished during a
workshop held in November 1997. Interim research reports were compiled in 1998 and 1999. Outputs
from this component related to the priority activities described above were as follows:
(a) Monitoring ofprimate populations. Monitoring of primate populations was ongoing throughout most
of the project implementation period, with some gaps due to weather related field conditions (e.g.
flooding related to El Nino rains in 1997) and security concerns that limited access by researchers (mid
2000). A team of two project-supported graduate students assisted by six locally recruited and trained
field assistants carried out regular surveys of primate populations and recorded information on habitat
loss/change during the period from 1997 to 2000. A more extensive census of primate populations and
evaluation of forest patches inside and outside of the reserve was carried out in early 2001. Although
methods used to estimate population size and status differed between the two project supported primate
studies, both indicate a modest reduction in population size in one of two endangered primates endemic to
the lower Tana River riparian forests (red colobus). Best current evidence indicates a slight decrease in
overall population size of red colobus in the range of 0 - 5% over the interval from 1994 to 2000. The
long term study also indicated a decline in mean group size during the duration of the study (1998-2000).
For the second endangered primate species (crested mangabey), population estimates between the two
studies show greater variance. A best estimate seems to be that the total mangabey population in the
reserve and adjacent riverine forests is stable or possibly has slightly increased. The results of long term
studies indicate there may have been some changes in mangabey behavior during the project period, with
increased crop raiding, disappearance of some known groups and changes in residency and movement
patterns noted. Three other non-human primate species are recorded as present within the reserve
throughout the project period and their populations appear to have remained stable.
(b) Habitat. Both of the primate surveys described above also recorded data on human impacts on the
size and quality of forest patches as habitat for the two endangered primate species as well as other
changes in the size and habitat quality of forest patches. The long term study (1998-2000) recorded
incidents of forest clearing for agriculture and of damage to or removal of important primate food trees
(both inside and outside of the reserve). The 2001 census, using date derived from year 2000 satellite
imagery and 1979 topographic maps estimated decreases in forest cover within and outside of the reserve
- 39 -



of 28% and 38%, respectively. An independent assessment of forest cover change based on aerial
photography recorded in 1991 (partial), 1994 (partial), 1998 (partial) and 2000 (complete) indicated a
modest decline (ca. 5%) in forest cover within and outside of the reserve during the project period. The
root causes of habitat change prior to and during the project period are complex. Some decline is
undoubtedly due to human impacts. An additional fraction of forest cover loss is due to forest senescence
and the absence of compensatory regeneration. Lack of regeneration is due, in part, to changes in the
hydrological regime caused by darn and diversion projects upstream from the project area as well as
ongoing land use change from forest to agriculture due to local human interventions. The relative fraction
of changes in forest cover that can be ekplained by each of these factors is difficult to determine from the
data at hand.
(c) Baseline and monitoring surveys offlora andfauna. Baseline studies were conducted for birds,
reptiles and amphibians, vascular plants, invertebrates, non-primate mammals, wetland ecology and fishes
beginning in 1998 and continuing through 2001. Final reports for these are pending. Interim reports were
submitted by NMK to KWS in 1998 and 1999. Monitoring plans are to be included in the final reports.
(d) Studies and monitoring of the Tana River hydrological system and its ecological effects on aquatic
and riparian ecological communities. Terms of reference were developed for hydrological studies that
were reviewed by the project Scientific Advisory Committee at meetings held in early 1998 and 1999.
These studies were never initiated due to a decision following the project MTR to slow down
implementation of the Research and Monitoring component while accelerating implementation of the
Community component.
(e) Human resource utilization (to establish sustainable use levels forforest products). A masters thesis
study was carried out during the project and completed in 2001. The study indicates that in the TRNPR
the most frequently harvested tree species in the forest are also those upon which the two endangered
primates are most reliant for food. An ethnobiology study was carried out to document the range of uses
of plant species within the forests. However, no indications of sustainable use levels were established.
The Adaptive Management Plan (2001-2006) identifies the continuing need for studies on human use of
resources within the reserve to provide input to reserve management. Further studies were supposed to be
undertaken to provide a basis for identifying options for sustainable livelihood investments outside the
reserve. These were not accomplished.
6) Prospects and methods for promoting andfacilitating community-based conservation of remaining
forest patches outside the Reserve boundaries. This study was not carried out. The Adaptive
Management Plan (2001-2006) refers to plans to develop a collaboration with an NGO to promote
community based conservation of extemal forests.
(g) Forest Restoration. Based on data from the primate studies on primary food resources of the two
endangered primates a program to plant seedlings for habitat enrichment was initiated in 2001. Research
involved experimenting with effective methods for seedling propagation and planting that could be
employed by locally hired assistants, community labor and volunteers. Based on the initial research a
seedling production and planting program was initiated that involved locally recruited and trained
personnel managing the nursery and involved both paid and voluntary labor drawn from local
communities for seedling planting and maintenance. This appears to be the best example of
"collaborative management" achieved under the project.
(h) Land Use Survey and Census of Communities. The survey was carried out in 1996 to provide
detailed information on current land use activities, in particular cultivation, within the TRNPR and a
census of the people doing the cultivation.
-40 -



(i) Design of Research and Monitoring Network/Database. The contract to create a database to archive
research reports, maps, aerial photos, references and other information about the TRNPR was only
completed in November 2001. The work done provides an adequate archive of information gathered
during the project and previously but falls short of the goal of producing a "living" library and dynamic
database to inform both reserve management and provide an interactive basis for defining and fine tuning
future research needs and priorities.
The studies described above in sections (a), (b-part) and (c) were executed under a contract with the
National Museums of Kenya. The 2001 Primate Census and Forest Evaluation (a- part) was executed by
the Kenya Institute for Primate Research (NMK). Land cover and livestock studies were executed by the
DRSRS. A subsequent land cover study was done by Capacity Development Africa (CDA) (b-part).
Additional studies identified in the Project Document that were not carried out under the project were:
palynology of the lower Tana River and primate genetics. The former was to provide historical
information to augment the planned hydrological studies concerning river dynamics. The latter was to
provide a basis for developing plans for maintaining genetic diversity within the Tana River populations
of red colobus and mangabeys through active habitat management based, in part, on analyses of habitat
quality, size and stability of forest fragments to be protected inside and outside of the Reserve and
restoration activities to be undertaken under the project.
Although a substantial amount of baseline data and increased knowledge of the biological content and
human uses of the Tana River forests was generated under the project, the Research and Monitoring
Component has fallen short of achieving several of its most important objectives. First, despite three
different studies of land use and land cover in the project zone financed under the project, there is still
disagreement and lack of clarity concerning the quantity and habitat quality of forest cover remaining in
the project zone and the rates and root causes of change in forest cover and habitat quality, both inside
and outside of the reserve. Second, although two separate sets of primate studies commissioned under the
project are in general agreement on overall population estimates for the two endangered primate species,
there is less consensus over the vulnerability of the remaining primate populations due to habitat
degradation, fragmentation and human disturbance. It is not possible to estimate what the status of the
primates and their habitats would have been without the project but, the data available indicate that, at the
time of project closure, both the primates and their habitat remain at significant risk of extinction. In the
absence of hydrological studies that were intended to be done under the project but were not executed,
there is a lack of clear understanding of the successional changes taking place in the riverine forests and,
therefore it is difficult to define the scope and location of forest restoration and regeneration activities that
would be appropriate. The recently prepared (2001) Adaptive Management Plan for the Reserve notes
that data on human uses of the forest are still required in order to set sustainable use limits for forest
products. This would seem to be a comerstone of effective co-management that is currently still lacking.
The close linkage between outputs of the Research and Monitoring component and the Reserve
Management component that was envisaged during project preparation seems not to have been achieved
at the time of project closure, despite open and effective sharing of intermediate results that has been
taking place throughout the project. Although knowledge relevant to management has undeniably
increased and researchers and KWS appear to have shared information regularly throughout the project,
the end result remains problematic. In the absence of an agreed and reliable set of monitoring indicators
for the target biota and well as the underlying factors that determine its security and sustainability at the
time of project closure, the objectives of this component have not been met and, despite significant
progress during project implementation, the overall performance rating must be considered unsatisfactory.
-41 -



Reserve Management: The objective of this component was to implement or to enable the
implementation of all activities concerned with the conservation of biodiversity of the reserve and its
surrounding area. Activities defined in the project document focused on:
(a)  improving security, management capacity and facilities;
(b)  determining priorities for management-oriented research programs and implementing conservation
and development recommendations arising from this research;
(c)  strengthening conservation of biodiversity through support to local initiatives to conserve forest
patches and other areas of biological significance through support to community conservation
projects that would support increasing the supply of resources collected from the reserve or
alternatives;
(d)  enhancing appreciation and understanding of wildlife conservation by involvement of local people
in ecological monitoring, restoration and ecotourism activities;
(e)  developing effective liaison with national and district bodies whose activities impact the reserve
ecosystem.
Security. Prior to the establishment of a permanent presence by KWS in the TRNPR in 1992 the general
security of the human population' in the lower Tana River region was at risk. Villagers noted that a high
level of livestock raiding as well as robberies and kidnappings were common. In 1992, potential farmland
east of the river could not be utilized by residents due to the security risks from itinerant bandits operating
in the region. The KWS security force that moved in to combat mobile wildlife poachers operating out of
southern Somalia and areas east of the river, resulted in increased security for residents living both within
and adjacent to the reserve. Interviews with villagers held during this mission confirmed their
appreciation for the decrease in banditry and security risk by rural pastoralists and farmers that had
occurred during the project and was attributed by community correspondents to KWS's presence. An
additional seven rangers were posted to the Reserve in 1998 and remain there until now. An
unanticipated result of increased security is that this may have actually increased pressure on forest
resources in and around the Reserve as villagers now find it safer to travel into the forest and to cultivate
lands that were previously inaccessible. Also during the final two years of implementation when an
intense and extensive dialog was underway under the Community Development component with residents
contemplating relocation away from the reserve, enforcement activities were relaxed to avoid potentially
negative impacts on community relations. This may have resulted in more (if temporary) degradation of
forest habitats than would have occurred under a more rigorous enforcement regime.
Infrastructure. During the project limited upgrading of infrastructure at the Mchelelo Research Camp,
including water and electrical supplies was accomplished. The administrative headquarters was relocated
to a new site within the reserve including construction of a perimeter fence around the compound,
provision of a reliable water supply, construction of seven shade structures built on concrete slabs to
accommodate 21 unipots, and construction of a storage shed/motor pool. A nursery with water supply
and a small storage shed used as an herbarium was constructed in 2000 about 500 m from the Mchelelo
camp and a pump and pipeline were installed. The reserve airstrip was upgraded and a new road entrance
to the administrative HQ was built. The project purchased seven vehicles to be used for management and
research. One vehicle was assigned to the TRCC, one to NMK, one is maintained in the reserve for
security forces and one for research. The other vehicles are stationed at HQ in Nairobi.
Adaptive Management Planning and Implementation. An interim management plan for the Reserve was
developed in 1994 covering the period 1994-1999. The document has been revised annually during that
period with input from the 1998 and 1999 research reports. The Joint Reserve Management Committee
was reconstituted and revived in May 1995. The "new" committee had thirty five members including two
County Councillors, two chiefs from villages adjacent to the Reserve and ten at-large community
-42 -



members. The JRMC met nine times between May 1995 and August 1998. In May 1998 the Committee
was again restructured with appointed at-large members replaced by community-elected members.
Beginning in July 1998 the JRMC was chaired by a locally elected Chairman, replacing the District
Commissioner who had previously held that function. From January 1999 the VRAU subsumed the
function of the JRMC for planning and community dialog. The JRMC has not met since then. A new
Reserve Management Plan covering the period from 2001 - 2006 was prepared during 2001. The plan
notes that the JRMC has become dysfunctional and will need to be reconstituted. The plan addresses use
of resources within the reserve by local communities, including both forest product harvesting and
livestock grazing. During preparation of the new Adaptive Management Plan (2001-2006) two
workshops were organized with community representatives to identify priorities and define options. A
third workshop to "validate" the plan has not yet taken place. Use of the VRAU (a committee
representing those residents planning to relocate) to organize participation, however, raises some question
as to whether all appropriate stakeholders have been involved. Whereas KWS was not in a position to
involve those stakeholders opposed to the reserve, a concerted effort should have been made to ensure the
participation of those community members who co-operated with the project but were not party to the
first phase of relocation as these would be the primary community stakeholders in the implementation of
the AMP. The plan also addresses community management of priority forests outside the reserve and
calls for initiation of an NGO collaborative agreement to do so. This has not yet been put in place partly
owing to the inconclusive searches for a suitable NGO partner during project implementation. The best
example of collaborative management between KWS and local communities was the program to generate
and plant seedlings for forest regeneration and habitat enrichment. The seedling production facility (tree
nursery) is now run by two locally recruited and trained assistants. The seedling planting and
maintenance work done in late 2001 was carried out with participation of more than 40 villagers.
Planting was done by paid labor recruited from amongst the villagers. Maintenance (watering and
weeding) has been done by villagers on a voluntary basis. It was noted that once word of project
termination reached the communities in late 2001, some previously established seedlings were slashed or
uprooted. This is, however, a minor fraction of those planted. The nursery continues to produce
seedlings for planting during the 2002 season and the locally recruited assistants are still being paid by
KWS.
Quality and Viability of the Adaptive Management Plan (2001-2006). The management plan drafted
during 2001 appears to have benefited from collaboration, technical review and input provided by
Nairobi-based institutions (NMK, DRSRS, IPR) and some local institutions and NGOs. The plan
provides an effective framework for future management of the reserve. However, it incorporates two
assumptions that may strongly effect its implementation. The first is that GEF project funding will
continue until June 2003. Many of the activities will need to be scaled back severely or cancelled in the
absence of this funding. The second assumption is that the 247 families who had registered for relocation
to the WITU-2 settlement scheme will actually do so in the absence of project funded investments in
infrastructure and livelihood enhancement. With the withdrawal of project funding, the number of
families who will relocate on their own is questionable. A significant fraction of agricultural land within
the reserve has been temporarily abandoned in anticipation of relocation. It can be expected that some of
this land will be reoccupied if residents reverse their decision to relocate. Similarly, tree cutting, land
clearing and harvesting of fuelwood within the reserve and other vulnerable forest patches will likely
continue or increase in the absence of the resettlement program. The Management Plan will need to be
revised in the context of the changed situation.
Establishment of Effective Liaison. The project has shown significant success in establishing effective
liaison with local and regional authorities such as the District Commissioner's office and the Tana River
County Council. There appears to be regular information exchange with these entities and the general
spirit of collaboration is well established and evident. Liaison with other regional actors such as the Tana
-43 -



River Regional Development Authority and the Coastal Development Authority (CDA) has also been
maintained.
In terms of the effort made to encourage community participation, albeit imperfectly, the infrastructure
improvements that were achieved and the general outline of management interventions described in the
Management Plan especially given the context of reduced activity in the mid-project implementation
period, the output of this component is satisfactory. Sustainability of the outcome of reserve
management efforts in view of the abrupt withdrawal of funding is, however, unlikely.
Community Conservation and Development Componeng: The CCDC was implemented with significant
delay reflecting the late recruitment of all key staff (CDS, CPO and community mobilisers - see above),
inaccessibility of some areas in Tana following the El Nifto floods and hostility among some
communities. The component was refocused considerably throughout project implementation in response
to the local situation and evolving preferences of the communities.
Goodwill projects. CCDC was to complete two goodwill projects initiated during project preparation, but
only one of these was ever implemented (Wenje, administrative school building). Little goodwill was
created and hostility towards the reserve persisted and persists even now in some communities within and
adjacent to the reserve. A court case challenging the legitimacy of the reserve is still pending.
Community-based endowment fimds: the project concept envisaged two endowment funds - a micro-
project fund to ensure project funding beyond the life of the project and an education fund to support the
education of local children through bursaries. No action was taken to create these funds in the first two
years of implementation and follow-up was then halted to allow concentration on relocation activities.
Community Action Plans (CAPs): PRAs which were to provide the basis for specific livelihood activities
and community action plans were not carried out until autumn 1999 and the validity of the results was
questioned as only a small and not necessarily representative sample of households was interviewed.
Four out of nine villages, including Baomo, the only village inside the reserve, did not participate in the
PRA because of their hostile attitude to the project. The two largest villages surveyed identified
unadjudicated land as the most important problem which was to be addressed by identifying alternative
land with associated title deeds. The CAPs were not followed up as a strategic decision was taken to
concentrate CCDC efforts on voluntary relocation before pursuing microprojects in and around the
reserve.
Supportfor voluntary out migration: During the project preparation phase a number of Pokomo
households had expressed their desire to relocate from the reserve where they could not obtain clear title
and where restrictions on extending the areas under cultivation conflicted with increasing needs of a
growing population and with their traditional (shifting) pattern of agricultural activity. Despite the slow
start to launch supporting activities for relocation within the Project, interest persisted and grew. The
VRAU envisaged in the project implementation manual was finally constituted in March 1999 and
completed a supplementary census of the population depending upon reserve resources with a particular
focus on households eager to relocate. The government committed alternative land for settlement in
August 1999 and community representatives selected Witu II as the preferred location. This growing
momentum coupled with the realization that the continued ecological integrity of the reserve depends
upon forest restoration on farmland in the reserve resulted in a consensus decision by KWS and the WB
supervision mission in December 1999 to concentrate all CCDC efforts on supporting voluntary
relocation and to put other activities on hold. KWS contracted an expert to prepare (and later revise) a
resettlement plan in line with WB guidelines on involuntary resettlement. The settlement plan foresees
the construction of key social and physical infrastructure, housing, physical movement of families to the
- 44 -



new site, crop-compensation and settling-in assistance. The host community in Witu was to benefit from
the rehabilitation of a school and health centre. 247 households whose farms cover approximately 60% of
farmland in the reserve signed up for the first phase of resettlement. A further 100 households
(approximately) who had failed to sign up by the cut-off date subsequently recorded their interest in
participating in a second phase of relocation. This second group of families would not receive a full
resettlement package, but it was expected that the prospect of free titled land would be sufficient incentive
to follow other settlers to Witu II once the first phase had been completed. There is some evidence that in
anticipation of possible compensation payments, speculative land clearing increased. An EIA of the
resettlement site was conducted in line with WB guidelines. KWS led the land survey and demarcation
activities at Witu II in collaboration with district authorities and technicians from the Ministry of Lands
and Settlement. KWS's mandate and capacity does not extend to the implementation of a resettlement
programme. An agreement was reached between KWS and GTZ/GASP which has over 20 years of
experience in resettlement within the area, to implement the resettlement program on behalf of KWS.
Implementation was to commence in the second half of 2001 when KWS received notification that all
resettlement activities must be put on hold awaiting the extension of the project and re-allocation of
funding within the CCDC. Following the failure to reach agreement with GEF on these matters, KWS
could only commit project budget funds for administrative expenditure to ensure that the 247 would
receive letters of allotment and eventually title deeds. No other facilitation of relocation will be
forthcoming from the project. It is expected that some families, most of whom had left their shambas in
anticipation of resettlement and had even initiated forest restoration on the abandoned land, will
translocate to Witu II once the letters of allocation are distributed even in the absence of further benefits
or support. Many, however, will likely return to farm their abandoned.shambas in the reserve. There was
widespread agreement that for any transfer to Witu to proceed humanely and successfully, additional
investments are required. At the very least it will be necessary to open up access paths to the farmland
and to arrange for an official showing of the land to the families once they arrive in Witu.
Pastoral communities 'projects: The Wardei pastoralists in Hara village adjacent to the reserve had
demonstrated their willingness to collaborate with the project from the outset. However, given initial
delays and the subsequent concentration on resettlement activities for the Pokomo farmers cultivating
inside the reserve, they only started to benefit from project investments in the last year of project
implementation. The project purchased the materials for a school, but further support for construction
had to be cancelled due to project closure. Planned investments in two boreholes were also cancelled.
The Project financed the development of training manual for community animal health workers and
entered into a collaborative agreement with the Catholic Diocese of Garissa to undertake the
implementation of training and supervise the construction and operation of a dispensary. The Diocese has
agreed to take over some of the costs which KWS can no longer meet following project closure. In the
context of the AMP an agreement had been reached that altemative dry season grazing land would be
made available in Lango La Simba, which was set aside, but not demarcated by GoK and may therefore
not be available to them following project closure. The reserve management plan, however, allows for
limited grazing in the reserve during extreme droughts.
The Community Advisory Committee which was to oversee this component only held one meeting in
August 2000 which was attended exclusively by KWS staff. An NGO representative was invited, but did
not attend the meeting. The outcome of the CCDC is highly unsatisfactory even though progress in the
later years especially on resettlement planning is acknowledged. Any goodwill towards the reserve and
trust in KWS that had been built up during continued dialogue has been eliminated now that the
resettlement plan will not be implemented by the project. No alternative livelihoods and sustainable
reserve resources use strategies have been identified and fostered given slow start-up and the principal
focus on relocation in the latter years of implementation.
-45 -



Institutional Developmeng Impacg
The project has provided an opportunity for KWS to identify priorities for research that is relevant for
adaptive management and to incorporate the outputs into their planning and management of the Reserve.
The shifting emphasis among project components during implementation has made it difficult to maintain
synchrony between the research, planning and management activities. This has weakened the anticipated
inter-linkage between the research and monitoring component and the others components but the
importance of cross-linkage and iterative feedback between the research outputs and other components is
well appreciated by project staff and KWS management although the degree to which this has been
achieved is less that was anticipated during project design.
The Project has built up significant capacity in KWS to handle difficult dialogues with a community that
is split in its support or opposition to the project. KWS has also built up strong links to local authorities
and the district and council for collaboration in reserve management. The decision in 1999 to recruit key
personnel from KWS ranks has strengthened this impact as the capacity will remain in the organisation.
However, as most key staff are now assigned to other areas and responsibilities, little continuity remains
on the ground and the positive impact is weakened. The construction of key infrastructure in the reserve
has increased KWS' capacity to control and manage the Reserve. The preparation of the management
plan was to give KWS and local authorities the tools for effective reserve management. However, the
AMP will now have be completely revised in view of the termination of GEF funding and likely return of
some families to their farms in the reserve. Of even graver consequence, however, is the fact that the
sudden termination of funding has left KWS, the district authorities and TRCC with a huge backlash of
resentment and mistrust expressed by the communities who feel misled and cheated by the project. It will
be very difficult for any of these institutions to collaborate with the affected communities, but also with
other communities who know about the project, in the nearer future on any undertaking, and especially
when it concerns collaboration for the protection of the reserve. KWS is also concerned about potential
repercussions on its credibility and effectiveness in implementing other community wildlife projects.
Major Factors Affectimg lmplemenatation and Outcome
Factors outside the control of government or imnplemening agency
As noted during appraisal, a major factor influencing both the rate of project implementation and a major
risk to project success was the fractionated and polarized nature of the communities within the project
area with regard to their attitudes toward the projects. Community views spanned the spectrum from
enthusiastic support to nearly violent opposition. An additional factor that delayed project activities
related to all three project components was extensive flooding that occurred in 1997 caused by
exceptional rains associated with the el Nino phenomenon. Finally, it was recognized from the beginning
that the long-term sustainability of the Reserve depended on reducing the number of people occupying
and using it. However, the unexpectedly large number of people who volunteered to move, combined
with the Bank's decision that the Involuntary Resettlement policy must be applied, raised the cost of the
proposed resettlement to a level where a large portion of the project funds would have been used for
resettlement. In the absence of approval for this reallocation, it was not justifiable to continue the
project
-46 -



Factors generally subject to government control
Three major factors affected the implementation of the project - the changes in leadership and direction at
KWS, the allocation of alternative land for settlement and the collaboration of other government
institutions in resettlement planning.
In its four and a half year of implementation the project was under the auspices of no less than four
different directors at KWS and five Deputy Directors of Research and Planning. Significant changes in
approach and policy of KWS came with each changeover of management and the relative progress of
different aspects of project implementation is also a reflection of different priority setting and
management philosophy of senior management staff. The lack of continuity of approach reduced the
project's effectiveness in achieving continuous implementation of its full objectives and components.
With the directors, other senior management positions also changed and this affected reporting lines and
continuity for the Project.
The commitment of government to allocate alternative land for relocation was a key condition for the
initiation of resettlement activities. Requests for land were initiated at the district level as early as 1997,
but little progress was made in this " bottom-up" approach until high-level negotiations led to an offer of
land in August 1999. Several sites were offered and an acceptable area for the relocatees was identified
in Witu II.
Throughout the resettlement planning process, other government ministries, including the Ministries of
Roads and Public Works, Agriculture, Education and Health as well as the district authorities under OP
have collaborated closely with KWS and provided technical expertise and advice to complete the
resettlement plan.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
TRPNR has never been a priority area for KWS. It does not generate revenues and is recognized as a
difficult area for staff to live and work. The acceptance of a GEF grant to fund activities in this reserve
did not fundamentally change the importance attached to TRPNR within KWS activities. The
reassignment of key project team members immediately following project closure is another indicator of
the low priority attributed to TRPNR.
The Project has been surrounded by much controversy, negative media attention and disagreements even
among technical specialists. The principal vehicle to achieve consensus with other stakeholders on the
way forward for the Project and the Reserve was the Project Steering Committee. However, following an
initial meeting in 1997, KWS did not call further steering committee meetings. A stronger emphasis by
KWS on involving other stakeholders and creating consensus could have improved overall
implementation experience and prospects for sustainability by tying in other stakeholders and creating
support.
The project's slow start can be attributed predominantly to internal management issues. Recruitment of
key staff was slow, reporting lines were not clarified with urgency, procurement of key equipment
suffered significant delays and important contractual agreements with partners were not finalised
expeditiously. Only following increased pressure applied by WB supervision missions could a general
speed up of all activities, and in particular the CCDC be observed. Over the last two years, workplans
were determined by agreements reached during WB supervision missions resulting in shifts of emphasis
and timing among various project activities.
-47 -



Cosgs and Financing
The financial costs incurred during project implementation are only a fraction of those envisaged in the
project document. This can be attributed to the low levels of activity in the first two years of
implementation and a subsequent concentration on planning for resettlement. The disbursement schedule
foreseen in the project document was already more ambitious than the WB project average for Kenya.
With the fifth year cut from implementation time it was unrealistic. If the two year extension and
reallocation of funding had been granted it is expected that all funds would have been spent.
Community contributions envisaged in the project document were linked to the implementation of micro-
projects. Since these were not undertaken during project implementation, no community contribution was
computed.
Financial management andprocurement: The project undoubtedly benefited from capacity building for
KWS in financial management and WB procedures provided in the context of the PAWS project which
was closed in 1999. However, a number of problems were encountered:
-    delays in establishing mechanisms for KWS to advance funds to third parties (NMK, DRSRS). A
buffer account was created to allow KWS to advance expenditure awaiting reimbursement from the
special account.
-    delays in returns from field officers slowing down reimbursement. This was addressed in the later
years of project implementation; and
-    delays in submission of accounting documentation from partner institutions which slowed down the
submission of replenishment claims. This problem persisted throughout implementation. Further,
there were problems relating to lack of clarity as to which institutions would hold original receipts
for accounting purposes.
Procurement also suffered significant delays. The order of vehicles did not materialise until December
1999 although the ICB procedures had been started in late 1997. No major items were procured before
1999. Procurement delays in were due to a number of factors. No single procurement officer in KWS
was responsible for procurement under this Project until 2000 and hence the priority attached to
processing procurement was not high. Late recruitment of key project staff also led to a late start in
procurement of equipment. The arrangement that KWS procured equipment on behalf of other
organisations was cumbersome. As much of the equipment required was highly specialised, there were
delays between receiving the experts' specifications (for example from NMK), verification and
inspection. In 2000, funds were made available to NMK to procure some highly specialised equipment
that could not be purchased nationally. However, the remaining sums were so small that international
orders were not accepted.
It was agreed that equipment bought under the project for NMK activities would remain with NMK
following project closure. An inventory of all equipment purchased will be drawn up by NMIK and KWS.
sunswaiablity
Sustainability of the modest project achievements of relative stability of the primate populations and
(perhaps) a reduction in the rate of habitat destruction and degradation within the project zone, is unlikely
in the absence of further intervention. Project sponsored studies clearly indicated that the pattern of
present human use of the forests and the surrounding agricultural lands is incompatible with long term
survival of the target species and their habitat. The project initiative to reduce human impact on the
critical habitats by providing viable alternative livelihood options through the voluntary resettlement of a
-48 -



major fraction (60%) of cultivators within the reserve and adjacent critical zones has been terminated with
the withdrawal of GEF funds. Abandonment of the resettlement plan that was drawn up in full
compliance with World Bank policies and procedures, exhaustively discussed and ultimately agreed with
the primary stakeholders (the 247 families who signed up for relocation and the 100 families who had
shown interest in being placed on the list) would seem to violate the principle of " do no harm" that
underlies the Bank's operational policies and procedures. The 247 families who had indicated their
preference for resettlement and receipt of land titles have now reverted to their landless status while
awaiting the allocation of letters of allotment. Having forgone cultivation of their former lands, they are
in a situation of reduced food security, relying on public food relief for sustenance. Having no title to the
lands they occupy nor any realistic prospects of obtaining such, they have little access to capital to invest
in alternative livelihood enterprises. The project-stimulated dialogue over alternative livelihood options
that culminated in a decision by a large fraction of the community to accept deeded and titled lands and a
GEF financed package of infrastructure investments to enhance social well being and alternative
livelihood options has led to heightened social tension within the communities that live within the project
zone. The minor fraction of residents who declined to accept the alternative livelihood package have
initiated hostile actions (beatings and house burnings) against the people who remain in limbo awaiting
formal notification that the benefits which were promised and over which they negotiated in good faith
will not be forthcoming.
When formal notification of project cancellation is forthcoming, it is expected there may be further
clashes as the resettlement group moves to reclaim control over their abandoned farmlands and to renew
use of income and meet basic needs for fuel, construction materials, etc. The result will likely be an
increase in the rate of forest destruction and degradation of the remaining forest lands within and outside
of the reserve with a corresponding negative impact on the primate populations and other biological
elements. At the project's end, therefore, the primary stakeholders (residents of the project zone) will be
no better and more likely worse off than when they began to interact and participate in the project. The
principal project objective of increased sustainability or ecological viability of a globally significant
biological community will have failed and the vulnerability of the natural community to extirpation will
have measurably increased.
The project's secondary objective, of putting in place an adaptive (flexible) management system,
informed by rigorous scientific research and monitoring studies, and implemented in partnership with
local communities as primary stakeholders, will also have failed. Having undertaken a protracted and
elaborate dialog with the communities to develop and agree on mutually acceptable solutions to
increasing human economic security in parallel with increasing ecological security of the globally
significant biodiversity, KWS and its partners in implementation will lose substantial credibility with the
local residents. This is sure to make management of the Reserve and wildlife increasingly difficult in the
face of a now skeptical public. The principal of cooperative management will be much harder to put in
place when the communities lack confidence in KWS's ability to meet their part of the bargain. Collapse
of the cooperative management covenant of which voluntary resettlement, secure land asset titling,
alternative livelihood and social infrastructure investments were key elements will erode both the
prospects for maintaining biological integrity and the prospects for establishing a meaningful social
compact between KWS and the primary stakeholders to undertake adaptive management of the dwindling
forest resources in the project zone.
In sum, the chances of preserving the modest gains in community security and ecological security of the
Reserve are precarious.
-49 -



Trasition arrangemeng go regular opeaGrC ons
Following project closure KWS proposes to:
-    continue enhancing reserve security, complete the movement to the new reserve HQ and to strictly
enforce the law as well as to resolve the outstanding court case between KWS and the local
community with regard to the legal status of the reserve.
-    revise the AMP to reflect reduced funding and to sign an MoU with TRCC to seek an increased role
of council in the management of the reserve. The MoU is still under discussion.
-    process and give letters of allotment and title deeds to the 247 families and to enlist community
support for conservation by supporting micro-projects around the reserve.
-    continue research and monitoring activities including through continuing cooperation with the
Kenya Primate Conservation Group.
-    fund raise through the development of fundable proposals by KWS and its partners.
In view of the fact that most key project personnel has been withdrawn from Tana operations and that the
fate of equipment purchased under the project, while not yet reallocated, also has not been clearly
assigned to support the transition, it remains difficult to see how a satisfactory transition arrangement is to
be achieved. A positive step has been the promotion of the CPO to the position of Warden in the Reserve
instead of appointing an outsider. Some continuity should therefore be retained.
As part of the exit strategy, a corporate communications strategy was to be developed to communicate
project closure to various stakeholders and the wider public. This has not been done.
Bamk znd Borrower Per50rmaimce
Bank Lending
Preparation: The project was identified during the Pilot phase of GEF and reflected the GEF priorities at
the time which were: (1) global environmental significance of project objectives; and (2) demonstration
value of a project to guide evolution of the GEF portfolio. Substantial funds were committed to project
preparation, a large part of which was executed by social welfare and biological conservation-oriented
NGOs. An extensive background study of the sociological situation in the project area was carried out, a
census of primates with the area was completed and a Population Viability Assessment of the two
endangered primates was undertaken. Neither the NGO consultants nor the individuals involved in the
biological studies had extensive experience with preparation of Bank lending operation nor any
experience with GEF project design. The Bank preparation supervision seems to have over-estimated the
"power" of EF grant financing to raise the priority of TRNPR on KWS's national agenda.
Appraisal: At appraisal the KWS demonstrated some institutional commitanent as evinced by the
reparation of a draft Project Document from the background studies previously commissioned. The
Bank's appraisal team consisting of specialists in conservation ecology, research and monitoring,
protected area management and social anthropology were appropriate and the appraisal report contains a
series of working papers that complement the draft Project Document prepared by KWS.
The appraisal report included an unusually detailed analysis of project risks including: (a) potential
ecological inviability of the reserve forests due to hydrological changes set in motion by upstream
developments; (b) a substantial risk of adequate community buy-in and of difficulties with coming to
consensus solutions given what was known about divisions within the community; (c) a pace of
implementation of the community component that was dependent on these communities and, therefore
- 50 -



difficult to coordinate with other components; (d) questions about whether KWS could provide sufficient
level of management oversight due to other priorities. The GEF financing package was considered
adequate and complementary to other related projects financed by the Bank (PAWS) and bilaterals (e.g.
COBRA) and under implementation. There were unusually long time lags between the completion of the
initial preparation reports and appraisal (18 months) and between the appraisal mission and project
effectiveness (25 months).
Supervision: Although project effectiveness took place more than one year after the grant agreement was
negotiated, the grant termination date was not revised. This oversight, which was not rectified during
supervision, resulted in a four year implementation period for a project that was planned to be
implemented over five years. In the early period of implementation, levels of field supervision were
lower than proposed in the project document. Supervision was carried principally by an ecologist, a
sociologist and an environmental specialist, which seemed adequate to cover the technical issues arising
throughout implementation. Additional specialists (e.g. Social Specialist and Wildlife Parks Management
Specialist) included on mission teams were appropriate. The mission reports contain detailed tables of
agreed actions and target dates that complement the annual work plans prepared by KWS. The mid-term
review (MTR) which resulted in major modifications to the content and timing of activities, was carried
out only 18 months after the date of effectiveness - early even in a four year implementation period.
The dialog between the WB task team and the GEF Secretariat (GEFSEC) on the reallocation of funding
to the expanded resettlement activities in the CCDC was highly unsatisfactory. Despite the fact that
voluntary resettlement is reported as a project element in the Project Document and discussed in all of the
supervision mission reports/Aides Memoires, including the Project Mid-Term Review, there is no record
of GEFSEC-Bank correspondence prior to mid-2001 (when the project was already operating under a
short term extension) indicating any policy changes since the project was approved that would preclude
financing costs associated with voluntary resettlement. The Bank's task team seems not to have
anticipated GEFSEC's objection to financing this component at the level required to comply with the
Bank's policies (e.g. OD 4.30). In its dialog with KWS and GOK concerning preparation of the
extension request, it is clear that the WB team acted under the assumption that GEFSEC approval should
be a matter of formality as long as WB guidelines governing the implementation of WB/GEF projects
were adhered to. The proposed extension involved no restructuring of the project, but merely a shift in
emphasis on a particular sub-activity within one of the components. Only a reallocation of committed
funding was requested. This assumption, however, proved to be erroneous and has had a devastating
effect on the final project outcome due to the abrupt project closure and cancellation of approximately
two-thirds of the original grant funds. It is worth noting that the risk that GEF might not agree to a
restructuring had been rated "modest" and not "negligible" in the PSRs since early 2001. If it had been
known at the outset of resettlement planning that funding was not assured, a fallback strategy could have
been pursued to protect vulnerable stakeholders.
The WB's decision to formulate a resettlement plan in line with its guidelines on involuntary resettlement
has raised a number of issues. Since resettlement was always offered as an option to the communities,
and many households in fact opted not to participate in the resettlement, a number stakeholders
considered that it was not appropriate to operate in the context of such strict guidelines for resettlement
activities that were of a voluntary nature. Both the Ministry of Lands and Settlements and GTZ
considered the package excessive and raised concerns about precedents being set which would be
impossible to follow in future non GEF funded activities. Paradoxically, it is the adherence to these strict
guidelines aimed at protecting the rights of the communities that has contributed to a situation in which
they are now significantly worse off than at the beginning of the project. A less comprehensive
compensation package would not have raised the same concern about the project having shifted all its
emphasis and resources onto resettlement activities and may have obtained GEFSEC approval.
- 51 -



According to WB policy a project is not complete until the resettlement has been implemented and
supervision must continue to the end. It is therefore pertinent that the WB considers alternative options to
finance and implement the resettlement program. The opportunity should be taken to re-examine the
validity of the original resettlement plan and agree with other stakeholders and local resettlement experts
on an appropriate package that makes the resettled households better off without creating an unreachable
precedent which might hinder subsequent resettlement activities.
The WB decision not to grant an extension of the project in absence of the authorization to reallocate
funds to implement the resettlement program was consistent with results from research and reserve
management that farming activities inside the reserve posed the greatest threat to viability of habitat and
the primate populations. A continuation of research and reserve management activities without the
restoration of forests on significant patches of farmland was not considered to be adequate to meet project
objectives.
Grant Recipient
Preparation: Throughout the drawn out project preparation period, no single senior counterpart took on
responsibility in KWS for the oversight of project preparation activities and there was high turnover of
staff involved with preparation. The many independent studies undertaken throughout preparation were
not condensed and focused on assembling a viable project. Following the exhaustion of preparation
funds, KWS did, however, commit staff resources to prepare a project document in line with WB/GEF
requirements, and in particular the research agenda was elaborated well. At appraisal community
consultation during preparation was reported to have resulted in a sufficient basis for collaboration.
Nevertheless, it appears that an adequate basis had not been reached since early delays in implementation
of the CCDC was blamed predominantly on hostility in the community.
Government implementation performance: The substantial changes in policy direction and emphasis in
KWS during project implementation and the considerable internal restructuring that went along with the
changes in leadership negatively affected project implementation. The government's official channel for
granting land for relocation, through requests at the district level, was too slow to meet the project's
needs. However, acceptable land was subsequently made available by the Ministry of Lands and
Settlements, which also proved flexibility with respect to the requirements of the project. Administrative
fees normally requested from settlers were to be waived as the provision of free alternative land was a
condition of the project. Further, rather than the 10 acres allocated on a standard basis in resettlement
schemes, the government authorised 15 acre plots for the relocatees supported by the project in view of
the fact that these settlers were giving up the use of fertile land resources in a national reserve to reduce
pressure on the natural habitat. The government also supported project activities by making technical
expertise from other ministries available to participate in the resettlement planning.
Implementing agency: The low priority attached to TRPNR in KWS has reduced project implementation
performance. Outside pressure applied by supervision missions appears to have been essential to achieve
progress on project activities. Internal management, recruitment and reporting problems as well as
financial management and procurement issues were not addressed with suiTicient urgency, but hampered
project implementation for the first two and a half years. High staff turnover further diminished project
achievements. It is recognized that following the appointment of an all KWS management team, project
implementation in the last year and a half was speeded up significantly and progress on all components
and especially resettlement planning was satisfactory. In the wrap-up phase following first the suspension
of resettlement activities and then project closure, KWS did not act with sufficient transparency. Several
partners in implementation, including the TRCC and the district authorities had not been officially
informed of the closure by the time the mission arrived. Other partners had only been informed after
- 52 -



specific follow-up from the World Bank Overall implementing agency performance over the life of the
project was not satisfactory.
Lessons Learnt
-    While World Bank policies and procedures apply to all Bank implemented projects the Bank needs
to be alert to possibly conflicting policies that may be set by "third party" financiers such as the
Global Environment Trust Fund when, in its role as a GEF Implementing Agency, the Bank accepts
responsibility for project implementation. Lack of timely and clear communication between the
GEF and the Bank on matters of eligible expenditures, may result in an elevated risk of project
failure and the unintentional violation of the principle to "do no harm". Annual reporting by the
Bank to GEF on projects under implementation should be sufficiently complete and comprehensive
to alert the third party financier to potential policy conflicts. Such conflicts should be resolved at
the earliest possible opportunity and the outcome communicated to the client in a timely fashion.
-    a four year time horizon may not be realistic to achieve significant community participation, change
livelihood strategies and complete voluntary relocation exercises in a situation where community
support for the project at the outset is at best shaky and divided, especially when the executing
agency has little prior experience in managing such activities.
-    a project, in which the different components are critically linked to each other, can only progress at
the speed of advancement of the slowest component. Where at the outset it is envisaged that one of
the components will progress "at a pace led by the progress of KWS' dialogue with the
community", a longer implementation timeframe allowing step-wise progression should be
considered from the start.
-    KWS institutional culture can be changed to de-emphasise enforcement and strengthen
collaboration with local stakeholders. Even in situations of adversity, dialogue with at least parts of
the community can be sustained and constructive propositions for reserve management and
community participation can be made.
-    When significant critical path activities such as the research and monitoring component of this
project are to be carried out by a cooperating institution (NMK) rather that directly by the executing
agency (KWS), care must be taken to streamline operational procedures to avoid delays in
implementation. The lack of a functional Project Steering Committee where inter-institutional
bottlenecks could be identified and addressed very likely contributed to delayed implementation of
the research and monitoring component and to reduced performance of NMK.
-53 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27614A
SUDAN iK~ ,,,   -            4O1   40604                40'08        4010        4012         4014
SUDAN                   -     4P6
p   ETHIOPIA  .OMALIA
N,          /'                             \    A        -_I
(6N KENYA'     '                             Weneo 
L~* IA 
I  P48                                /          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I4  
0     1     2     3440'00 2 40'02M          r                                      \
KILOMETERS
-1'50                                                                                                   1'5K h
MAKERE g                                           \
- - -     _ - - - - - -    S   jg    + --
OU  g./ {Boxana
-152              \                                                                                    P+4c 80xrJno  \ 152
kCHELELO EAST
MCf}lELO WES 4
FAWEST                                  |
-1 54/                                                                                                   5
KI )T~
\~~~~~~~~S                             B,AOMO I
\                     *40~~~~~MO NO Rg EAST "> 
K EN YA          \ \''.
TANA RIVER PRIMATE --\                                   KWER1
NATIONAL RESERVE                           (       \ 
FORESTS                                   mNAZI olr' 
FARMS                                     N        RT                  The boundaries, colors,
/                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~denominotions and any
FLOODPLAIN                              \       -                      other information shown
- -  RESERVE BOUNDARIES                                                     an this map da not
--~-RIVERS                                                               The World Bank Graup,
I ~~~~~~~sanyu
-1'58         0  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                   \                             umentn the legal 1 '58-
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 IXor any endorsement
re NATIONALCAPITAL   ->                     }    ' \  WJ           or occeptonce of such
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                     i         oro' p r  boundaries
40 00        40'02         4004     \  4006           8           0'10        40'12         4014
JANUARY 1996









: :. f- I
_nl
6030Z                                          Z-j
valO --- r.. -.- - --
LJ ili, i..   .- . -- I --- I j d" : --- .- I - - ljlul/l 3



