                                    Documentof
                                The WorldBank




                                                   ReportNo.: 34509




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      KENYA

 TANA RIVER PRIMATE NATIONAL RESERVE CONSERVATIONPROJECT
                                     (TF-28500)


                                DECEMBER 8,2005




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Division
IndependentEvaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit =Kenya Shillings (Kshs)
1998                      US$1.oo               Kshs.60.00
1999                      US$l.OO               Kshs.70.00
2000                      US$l.oo               Kshs.76.00
2001                      US$1.oo               Kshs.78.00
2002                      US$l.oo               Kshs.75.00
2003                      US$l.oo
                          US$l.oo               Kshs.77.00
2004                                            Kshs.78.00


Abbreviations andAcronyms


AMP               Adaptive Management Plan
CCDC              Community Conservation and Development
CD                Community Development
CWOS              Community Wildlife Officers
DDCs              District Development Committees
EAWLS             East African Wildlife Society
GEF               Global EnvironmentalFacility
GTZ               German Aid Agency
ICR               Implementation CompletionReport
IDA               InternationalDevelopment Association
IEG               Independent Evaluation Group
IPR               Institute o fPrimate Research
JRMC             Joint Reserve Management Committee
KWS              Kenya Wildlife Service
MLS              Ministryo fLandsand Settlement
NGOs             Non-Governmental Organizations
NMK              National Museums o f Kenya
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
TARDA             Tana and Athi River Development Authority
TRPNR             Tana River PrimateNational Reserve
UNCED            UnitedNations Conference onthe Environment andDevelopment
UNDP             UnitedNations Development Programme
UNEP             UnitedNations EnvironmentProgramme



FiscalYear

Government:               July 1-June 30




Director-General, Evaluation                           : Mr.VinodThomas
Director, Independent Evaluation, World Bank           : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation        : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                           : Mr.JohnR.Heath

    IEG Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.


 About this Report
       The IndependentEvaluationGroup assessesthe programsand activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
 first,to ensurethe integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe
 expected results, and second, to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthroughthe
 disseminationof lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, IEGannuallyassesses about 25 percentof the
 Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis given to thosethat are innovative,
 large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which Executive
 Directorsor Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate importantlessons
 The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department)and fieldwork conducted by IEG. To prepare
 PPARs, IEGstaff examine project files and other documents, interviewoperational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 IEGstudies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and IEG managementapproval. Once cleared internally,the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' commentsare attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has beensent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

 Aboutthe IEG RatingSystem
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by IEG are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale usedfor each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the IEGwebsite:
 http://worldbank.org/oed).
       Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainability: The resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extentto which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability,and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrowerassumed ownership and responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                       ...
                                                                       111



 Contents

 Preface  ..............................................................................................................................        ..
                                                                                                                                              vi1

 Summary     ...........................................................................................................................       ix

 1 Background
  .                      ..................................................................................................................     1
         The Tuna River Primate National Reserve (TRPNR) ..............................................                                         1
         The Global Environment Facility (GEF) .................................................................. 2
2 ProjectDesignandImplementation
  .                                                                ...........................................................................  3
         Project Design .........................................................................................................               3
        Implementation ........................................................................................................                 5
3 Analysis
  .              .........................................................................................................................      7
        Relevance .................................................................................................................             7
        Efficacy ....................................................................................................................           8
        Efficiency ..................................................................................................................          9
        Outcome...................................................................................................................             9
        Institutional Development Impact............................................................................                           9
        Sustainability..........................................................................................................               10
        Performance Of Participating Parties...................................................................                                10
        Borrower Performance .......................................................................................... 10
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                    12
        GlobalEnvironment Facility ................................................................................                           -13
        The NGOs..............................................................................................................                14

4.   Conclusion      ..................................................................................................................       15

5 Lessons
 .             ........................................................................................................................       16

Annex A    . PerformanceIndicators.................................................................................                           17

Annex B    .BasicDataSheet..............................................................................................                      19

Annex C BorrowerComments
           .                                       ......................................................................................     21




This reportwas preparedby JohnR HeathandJohnEnglish. Consultant. who assessedthe projectin
                                            .
January2005.The report was editedby WilliamHurlbut. andRose Gachinaprovidedadministrative
support.


                                                                V



       PrincipalRatings

                                                                                                                       --
       Outcome                             Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
                                              ~I




       Sustainability                        Unlikely                       Unlikely                        Unlikely
       InstitutionalDevelopment               Modest                        Modest                          Modest
       Impact
       Bank Performance                    Unsatisfactory               Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory
       BorrowerPerformance                                                                              Unsatisfactory
       * The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.
       The ICR Review is an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the
       findings of the ICR.


       Key Staff Responsible
--'Lw--
       Project                            Task ManagerILeader                Division Chief/            Country Director
- _-__---~                                                                   Sector Director
                                                                   I_-                                                       ~

         Appraisal                             Agnes Kiss                   Sushma Ganguly                James Adams
         Completion                         RichardKaguamba                  RichardScobey                Makhtar Diop


                                             vii


Preface

This i s the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Kenya Tana River
PrimateNationalReserve Conservation Project (TF-28500) for which a grant equivalent
to US$6.2 million from the Global Environment Facility (GEF) was approved in
November 1996. The project closed on December 31,2001 after a six month extension.
An ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) was submittedbythe Africa Regionon
January 10,2003.

This report was preparedby the IndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) based on the
completionreport, the Project Document (Report No. 15425, October 1996), the
Development Credit Agreement, and a review o f Bank files and related documents, and
discussions with Bank and GEF staff. An IEGmissiontraveled to Kenya inFebruary
2005 where it discussed the project with Bank staff, relevant current and former
government officials, and non-governmental organizations, includingvisiting the project
site. The cooperation and assistance o f all stakeholders and government officials i s
gratefully acknowledged as i s the support o fthe World Bank Country Office inNairobi.

Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o fthe draft PPARwere sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments. The comments which were
received have beenincorporated into the report and are appended as Annex C. In
accordance with the Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the
public following submission to the World Bank's Board o f ExecutiveDirectors.


                                                i x


Summary


           The Kenya, Tana RiverPrimateNational Reserve Conservation Project sought to
improve the conservation and management o f the Tana River PrimateNationalReserve
(TRPNR) which hadbeen established inthe 1970sto protect a unique stretch o friverine
forest along the lower Tana River that is home to a numbero f endemic plant and animal
species, most notably two species o fprimates. Management responsibility for the reserve
was vested inthe KenyaWildlife Conservation Department, the predecessor to the Kenya
Wildlife Serve (KWS).

           The reserve is located inthe upper reacheso fthe delta o fthe Tana River. Much
o f it i s savanna andhas longbeenusedas a "fall-back" areabypastoralists duringperiods
o f drought. There are also a small number o fresident communities livingalong the river
dependent primarily on cropping. A few o f the latter actually live inthe area o f the
reserve. Increasedincursions into the reserve were damaging the small area o friverine
forest, reducingthe food supply for the primates and others andputtingthe future o f the
endemic species at risk.

           The objectives o fthe project were to: support the conservation o f the unique
biological community o f the Tana River riparian forests; incorporate the results o f
targeted research and monitoring into the management o f a fragile and complex
ecosystem; andreduce identifiedthreats to the ecological integrity and survival o f the
forest ecosystem.

           Theproject was one o fthe first to beidentifiedin 1991as part o fthe pilot phase
o fthe Global Environment Facility (GEF). Fromthe beginningo f the preparation
process the Bank recognized that the success o f any programinthe reserve would be
dependent on reducing humanpressure on the forest.

           Preparationprovedto be an extendedprocess, primarily because o f difficulties in
obtainingreasonable agreement with the local communities over a community
development component to include assistanceto at least some o fthe households to
relocate elsewhere. In 1995 the Bank finally decided to proceed to appraisal with a
community development (CD) component including illustrative micro-projects and
activities basedon informationfrom its surveys and community consultations, with the
actual subprojects to be defined after the project was underway.

           Theproject, financed by the GEF grant, became effective inJuly 1997. While
some progress has been made inthe research program, and an adaptive management plan
for the reserve has been prepared, basically no progress hasbeenmade on the community
development side. When a relocation site was finally found, a significant number o f
households indicateda desire to move. This, together with the need to meet Bank
resettlement guidelines, resulted ina cost for relocation substantially inexcess o f the
modest initialprovision. As a result, a reallocation o f the grant proceeds was required, as
well as an extension o fthe project closingdate. The Bankrequested approval from the
GEF for these changesbut the latter decided that they couldnotjustify funding such a

                                               X



large expenditure onresettlement or extendingthe closing date, andthe project was
therefore terminated.

         Results o f the CD effort on the groundwere minimal and, because o f the abrupt
end to the operation, without any actual steps taken to help people to relocate, local
fi-ustration was great and local animosityperhaps greater than it hadbeenbefore the
operation started. While the relevanceo f the operation for country development strategy
was substantial, its efficacy was negligible, i.e., principal objectives were not met
because o fmajor shortcomings. Accordingly, the overall outcomei s rated as
unsatisfactory.

         Because o fthe above outcome, the sustainability o f the operation i s ratedas
unlikely, and the institutionaldevelopmentimpactas modest. None o fthe parties
performed well. The project was a very small part o fKWS' responsibilities. Staff
turnover was rapid and staffing often incomplete, a major factor inthe slow progress that
was achieved on the ground and o f the poor relationswith the localpopulation. The
Bank was perhaps over-optimistic at the outset and, while there was considerable
informal contact with GEF, didnot keep the latter adequately informed formally about
the status and extent o f the CD proposals, so that GEF felt unprepared for the action
required. Both Bank and Borrowerperformanceare rated as unsatisfactory. GEF's
contributionwas also inadequate as it was aware ingeneral terms o f the positionand
should have made its concerns knownto the Bank earlier so that, even ifthe outcome
could not have been changed, it could have been less abrupt.

        Two major lessonsmay be drawn from the experience o fthis project:

               Uncertaintymust be removedfrom core components before
               implementationbegins. The fact that inthis case the program for
               relocation o fthose willing to move from the reserve was not agreedbefore
               the project became effective was a handicap to implementation o fthe
               whole community development component. Unless local communities
               believe that their interests are central to project design, they are unlikelyto
               actively support implementation

            0  When arelatively small, stand alone objective, such as conserving the
               unique biodiversity o fthe TRPNR, i s considered as the basis for a project,
               the design must look beyondthe immediate area linkedto project
               operations, and must take into account those conditions inthe wider region
               that canhave a crucial impact on its success or failure.




                                                                       Vinod Thomas
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                          Evaluation

                                                1


 1. Background

 THETANARIVERPRIMATE NATIONAL               RESERVE    (TRPNR)

 1.1      The Tana River is the largest river inKenya, risingon the slopes o f Mt.Kenya
 and flowing east and southeast to the IndianOcean throughthe predominantly arid east
 andnortheast regiono f the country. It has an extensive delta that i s located ina
 predominantlyarid regionhistorically dominated bypastoralists. Duringdry seasons,
 and especially duringprolongeddrought periods, these groups have used the delta as a
 "fall-back" reserve for their herds, when soil water and river levels fall, andthe area i s
 more accessible. A few groups o f slash andburnagriculturalists have also traditionally
 livedinthe areaclose to the river.

 1.2      Most o fthe upper reaches o fthe delta, about 75 kmfrom the ocean, are
 characterized by shallow soils underlainby a hardpanthat restricts water movement, and
 that i s covered by semi-arid savannavegetation. A small area, primarily close to the
river, and consisting o foldlevees, has deeper soils and adequate soil water. This areais
 covered by a unique tropical forest, which inmany respects i s more similar to the tropical
 forests o f West Africa, than to the rainforests o f East Africa. This forest i s believed to be
the remnant o f a forest that stretched across Africa inthe Tertiary period.' Not
surprisingly, this riverine forest is home to a number o fendemic plant and animal
species, the most notable o fwhich are two primates (the Tana RiverRedColobus andthe
Tana River Crested Mangabey), about 1200- 1400 o fwhich remained inthe reserve and
its immediate surroundings at the inceptiono f the project.

 1.3      Bythe 1970s, increasingpressure onthe forested area, especially anincrease in
slash andburnagriculture, hadresulted inthe effective destruction o f about halfthe
forested area, puttingthe endemic species at risk. This pressure was exacerbated by a
number o f factors. Developmentexperience inthe Tana Rivervalley has not been good.
Inthemid-1970sthe KenyaGovernment undertooktwo irrigationschemesbasedon
flows inthe RiverTana, at Bura and Hola (about 80km and 50kmupstream o f the
TRPNR, respectively). Neither o fthemwas completed and, bythe mid 1980s, bothhad
failed, withwater no longer beingdeliveredto farmers' plots. A number o fthe Pokomo
tribe, who hadbeenresident near the reserve, hadgone to the schemes and, after their
failure, hadreturned, embittered, to their own homes andplots. Some o fthe other
settlers, who had come from other parts o fKenya, stayed on inthe regioninpoverty.
Then, inthe late 1 9 8 0 as~the turmoil and lawlessness innearby Somalia grew (later to
                             ~
beaggravated by drought-induced famine) the problems spilledover the Kenyanborder
inthe form ofbanditry, that further increasedlocaltensions.

1.4       In1976about 169km2o ftheupperdelta, incorporatingthe forested areao fabout
11km2,was incorporated into the Tana River PrimateNational Reserve (TRPNR), which
was initially established as a County Council Game Reserve in 1976. As a County
Council Reserve, the TRPNR was to be administered by the local authorities ina way
that benefitedlocalcommunities, as well as conservingthe natural ecosystem and


1.That is, about 25 to 65 millionyears ago.

                                                     2


 threatened species. The local council soon realizedthat it didnot have adequate
 resources to do this and, in 1983, an agreement was reachedwith the national government
 to transfer management responsibility to the Kenya Wildlife ConservationDepartment,
 the predecessorto the KenyaWildlife Service (KWS).'

 THEGLOBALENVIRONMENT               FACILITY(GEF)

 1.5     Duringthe 1980sthe increasing concern over internationalenvironmentalissues
 that was to culminate inthe UnitedNations Conference on the Environment and
 Development (UNCED) in 1992 (heldinRio de Janeiro), also led to pressure for the
 establishment o f a mechanism to fund activities inlow income countries directedto
 addressing global environmental problems. In 1990, after extended discussions between
potential donor countries and other interested parties, it was agreed to create a pilot
 financing facility (known as the GEF) to operate for an initial period o f three years with a
 fundof SDRl.O billion(almost US$1.5 billion), contributed bymosthighincome
countries.

 1.6    The initial GEFmandate was to develop a work program that would explore in
practice how global environmentalprograms could be effectively addressed. Four focal
areas were selected: climate change, biodiversity, ozone, and internationalwaters.
Management was entrusted to a collective o f three internationalorganizations: the United
NationsDevelopment Program (UNDP), the UnitedNations Environment Program
(UNEP) andthe World Bank. At the outset theparties to the initial funding agreement
didnot providedetailed guidance onhow this group should operate, leavingit to the
parties themselvesto develop mechanisms, but indicating a preference for an action
oriented arrangement that didnot entail a new bureaucracy.

1.7     Whenthe pilot GEF was established in 1991the three collaborating agencies
immediately looked for potential operations to support. WhenDr.RichardLeakey, then
head o fKWS, suggestedon behalf o fthe National Museum o fKenya (NMK) and the
Institute for PrimateResearch (IPR), who hadjointly been carrying out research onthe
endemic primates, that an effort be launchedwith GEF support to upgrade the
management o f the reserve and extend the research beingundertaken there, the ideawas
quickly embraced. Under the GEF agreement NGOs hadbeen giventhe right to propose
projects andto be appointed to reviewproposals. A proposalcoming from a non-
governmental group for support of a small threatened ecosystem with a highdegree o f
endemism, was very attractive.

1.8     Inaddition, theTRNPRprojectwas identified, andits general form accepted,
before the GEF had any policies inplace on issues such as financing o f settlement
activity. However, in 1995 GEFprepared Project Cycle Guidelines, which included
provisions for `resettlement plans' where necessary. These could have beenapplied
when the project was appraised andapproved. As will be seen, botho fthese facts were
to have significant consequencesfor the project.



2. The KWS was established as a state corporation in 1989.

                                              3


2. ProjectDesignand Implementation

PROJECT     DESIGN

2.1     The overall goal ofthe project was to improve the conservation andmanagement
o fthe TRPNRwith the participationof, and increase socio-economic benefits for, local
communities. The objectives o f the project were to: support the conservation o fthe
uniquebiologicalcommunity oftheTana Riverriparianforests; (ii)        incorporate the
results o f targeted research andmonitoring into the management o f a fragile and complex
ecosystem; and (iii)  reduce identifiedthreats to the ecological integrity and survival o f
the forest ecosystem.

2.2     From the beginning, the Bank recognized that the success o f anyprograminthe
reserve would be dependenton the extent to which pressure on the riverine forest areas
couldbereduced and that this was dependent on development o f a modus vivendi with
the local population. At the outset the Bankwas optimistic, with the project brief
venturingthe view that "in addition to representingahighpriority for the conservation o f
biodiversity, the Reserve has the potential to become an internationalmodelproject for
the integration o f conservation and traditional human activities".

2.3     Following a workshop on the biological issues underlying the preparation o f a
management plan, the Bank sent a sociologist inlate 1991to investigate the social issues
and to prepare terms o f reference for detailed preparationstudies o fthe community
development (CD) elements o f the project. Inher report she noted that an effort to
persuade some o fthose currently living inthe area to relocate elsewhere would be
required for successful conservation. She volunteered the view that "full resettlement
requirementswould be limitedto Baomo village, andinthe extreme casethe small
numberofMakere farmers livingonthenorthernedge o fthe reserve. A verypreliminary
estimate o f the numbers o fpeople involvedwould be about 100households or 500 to 600
people."

2.4    Projectpreparation was a lengthyprocess, primarilybecauseo f difficulties over
the C D component. There were people livingalong the river (primarily upstream from
the main forested area). At the same time the delta was an important grazingresource
after annual floods subsided, especially duringdrought periods. Conflict between the
pastoral groups (who normally used grazing areas fairly near the reserve inthe dry
season, and others including Somali who came less frequently when their normal grazing
areas were depleteddue to drought) i s common insuch areas, but the patterno fuse here
meant that the potential for conflict was greatest duringdroughts, whenboththe
pastoralist and agriculturalist groups were under increased stress.

                                                       4


 2.5      Efforts to draw up an agreed proposal continued through 1994, without success3.
 The Bank finally decided to proceed to appraisal with a community component including
 illustrativemicro-projects and activities based on information from its surveys and
 community consultations, with actual proposals to be finalized later on the basis o f
 participatory rural appraisals to be carried out ineach community duringthe first year o f
 the project. This was the positionreflectedinthe appraisal documents approved by the
 Boards o fthe Bank and the GEF Council in 1996.

 Proiect Content

 2.6      The project, to be implementedover a five year period, was formulated with four
 components:

 2.7      Researchand Monitoring(planned expenditure o fUS$1.5 million; actual o f
 US$0.36 million). The research programwas to address five priority areas: (a)
 monitoring o fprimate populations, genetics andhabitatparameters; (b) baseline and
 monitoring surveys o f fauna and flora; (c) studies andmonitoringo fthe Tana River
 hydrological system and its ecological effects; (d) resource utilization for humans (to
 establish sustainable use levels for forest products); and (e) prospects and methods for
 promotingand facilitating community-based conservation o f remaining forest patches
 outside the reserve boundaries.

 2.8      Reserve Management (planned expenditure o fUS$1.46 million; actual o f
 US$0.46 million). This included: (a) measures to enhance security within the reserve and
 adjacent areas; (b) measures to reduce poaching and agricultural encroachment inthe
reserve; (c) improvement o fphysical facilities for reserve management, research and
monitoring; (d) establishment o f consultative and advisorybodies, such as the Joint
Reserve Management Committee(JRMC), to involve local communities inthe planning
 andmanagement o fproject activities; and (e) preparation andimplementation o f an
Adaptive Management Plan (AMP) for the reserve.

2.9       CommunityConservationandDevelopment(CCDC) (planned expenditure
US$2.43 million; actual o fUS$0.37 million). The CCDC was aimed at buildingsupport
among local communities and reducing pressure on the reserve's resources by: (a)
supporting alternative livelihoodsthrough the implementation o fmicro-projects and


3. The frustration engendered on all sides is well captured by the following paragraph from Annex 5 o fthe
appraisal document headed"The "Catch-22 o f ParticipatoryProject Preparation":      "Finally, it is worth
noting that KWS' efforts to encourage the community itself to identify specific projects and activities to be
fundedunder the Community Development component were largely unsuccessful, despite extensive efforts
onthe part o f successive CWOs and the consultant appointed byKWS to prepare the component. The
problemwas complicated by the fact that when some leaders didputproposals to KWS, these actually
amounted to wish-lists that were bothunrealistic inscope and often seemed to reflect the priorities o f those
individuals rather than the broader community. K W S could not accept these, fueling the conviction that the
"participatory approach" was a sham. Fromthe perspective o fproject preparation, the situationrepresented
something o f a "catch-22": the Bank insisted the project could not be appraisedunless K W S could
demonstrate that the community hadparticipatedinits preparation, while the community declined to
participate untilK W S could confirm that the money was available (i.e. the project was already approved)."

                                               5


 income generating activities, based on the sustainable use o fresources within and outside
 the reserve; and(b) encouraging voluntary relocationo fcommunities farming inthe
 reserve, by identifying and acquiring alternative land, and increasing its productivity.

 2.10   Project Management(planned expenditure US$0.39 million; actual expenditure
 US$0.72 million). The project was managed by the Kenya Wildlife Service (KWS)
 through its regular line management. The component covered KWS' project-specific
 expenditure andcosts o fthe Project Steering Committee and other advisory and co-
 ordination committees (see para 3.15).

 IMPLEMENTATION

 Project Implementation

 2.11 Research and Monitoring. An overallplan for research andmonitoring was
 developed soon after project effectiveness, to be carried out and coordinated byNMK(in
 collaborationwith the Institutefor PrimateResearch - IPR), under a contract with KWS.
Butthere were delays inreachinganagreementbetweenthe two parties andin
 subsequently setting up adequateprocedures for financial management, so that activities
were delayed. Work was also hinderedby unusual flooding in 1998, but ten o f the 13
plannedstudies were completed. Studies on the hydrology o f the project zone and o f the
potential for natural or managed regeneration o fthe forests were not undertaken. The
results o f the completed studies provided input to the AMP, but its efficacy was reduced
bythe fact that there was inadequate collaborationbetween the parties so that the
individual studies didnot adequately answer issues related to the rates and causes o f
forest cover andhabitat loss, and there remains a lack o f consensuson the vulnerability o f
the remainingprimatepopulation.

2.12    ReserveManagement. Inboth 1997 and 1998 there were abnormal floods inthe
area that disrupted work and, inthe case o f the 1998 `El Nino' flood, facilities were
damaged. Itwas decided to relocate the reserve headquarters to a site that was both
closer to the main Garissa-Mombasaroad, and less subject to flooding. KWS also
experienced delays inprocuring vehicles and equipment, partlybecause o f unfamiliarity
withBankprocedures. The JRMC was established, but its effective operationhasbeen
fitfulanditwas replacedbya CommunityAdvisory Committeethat also hashadlimited
effectiveness (see below). As well as relocating and upgradingreserve headquarters,
KWS reconstructed the researchhisitor camp andimprovedthe general infrastructure. It
improved security inand around the reserve and reducedthe incidence o fpoaching, cattle
rustling andother problems. KWS prepared an AMP andwas following it when the
project was terminated.

2.13    Community Conservation and Development. Frustrations inthe community
development work continued. Itbecame apparent that just over halfo fthose farming in
the reserve were interested inresettlingifa suitable site couldbe found. As a result,
there was little interest inthe communities discussing in-situmicro-projects untilthe
relocationissue could be settled, andthe CD component was essentially put on hold for
almost two years as the search for a site and the necessary steps to ensure that it couldbe
made available for settlers took a significant amount o ftime. An acceptable site was

                                               6


 identifiedat Witu, about 50 km from the reserve towards the Indian Ocean. A planwas
 drawn up for resettlement, and a six month extension o f the project periodto the end o f
 2001 was agreed to accommodate the additionalwork.

 2.14    Because o fthe increase o fnumbers likely to be involved over that assumed at the
 outset, and also partly because o f requirementsimposedby the Bank's resettlement
 guidelines, it became clear, as the plan for voluntary resettlement was elaborated, that the
 resultingoverall costs for the CD component would exceed the amount allocated under
 the project. Grant funds would needto be reallocated from the research andreserve
 management components into the CD component, as well as a firther extension o fthe
 closing date. GEF approval would be requiredfor the change, inaddition to the normal
 agreement betweenthe Bank and the borrower. The Bank had apparently assumedthat
 approval would be a formality but when the final proposalwas put to GEF for approval,
 GEFwas unwillingto agree onthe grounds that ithadno policypermittingits funds to be
 usedto finance resettlement. Inaddition, there was abeliefamong some GEF staffthat it
 mightbepreferable to terminate theproject since littleprogress hadbeenmade in
 achievingits biodiversity objectives. Given the unwillingnesso f GEF to finance the
 resettlement program, the Banklooked for alternatives but, because its lending activity in
 Kenyawas frozen as a result o f country relations issues, it was unable to do so. The
project was, therefore, terminated. Other than one community levelproject, constructing
 a school building, essentially nothing was achievedbythe community development
 component.

Post Termination Situation

2.15     The termination was devastating for all the parties on the ground, especially the
families who had agreed, and fully expected to move to the new site. Without project
funds KWS scaledback activities at thereserve buthas continuedto protect andmanage
the site and to work as feasible with the local communities. Research work under the
coordination o fNMKcame to a halt andminimal work has been undertaken since.
Researchers andKWS staffreported to the assessmentthat the condition o fthe forested
area o fthe reserve has improved. The numbers o fprimateshave increased since the low
point at around the time ofproject termination, when environmentalconditions were at
their worst, so that nowthere are about as many as there were at thebeginningofthe
project. Inaddition to the improved climatic conditions over the past few years, impact
from localpeople i s also reported to have beenreduced, perhaps as they see that they
may have missedan opportunityand that further degradation o fthe reserve i s not intheir
interest.

2.16    The plots at the Witu site remainallocated to the families, and KWS and district
authorities advised the assessment team that most o fthem remaininterested inmoving,
provided that they can be given some assistance to do so. The Tana River District
Steering Group (the grouping o f district level line departments, administrative chiefs and
other relevant local actors) was to meetjust after the visit o fthe assessment mission and
invitedKWS to attend to discuss whether arrangements couldbemade to provide some
assistance, specifically through micro-projects to beundertakenjointly by the settling
families and the government, at the settlement site (e.g. for basic infrastructure,

                                                        7


 classrooms etc.) duringthe next financial year, beginningJuly lst, 2005. Thus, as o f
 mid-2005, there is someprospect o fprogress inrelocationover the next year or SO.^

 2.17     Because o fthe sensitivityo fthe current situation, including the residue o f
 hostility following project termination, it was decided that the communitieswould not be
 visited as part o fthe assessment. It wasjudged that a visit mighthave created
 misunderstandings about the status o fthe GEF funding and suggestedto some, at least,
 that the earlier proposal was still on the table, so that there was a risk that a visit would
 underminethe current work to promote a collaborative effort to assist those families
 wishingto move to do so, butwith less support than earlier proposed.

 2.18     The ProjectDocumentnotedthat the "project should be seenas an experiment
 beingundertakeninvery difficult circumstances." The report notedthree risks. First,
 that the populationo f the endangeredprimates, andperhaps the entire forest ecosystem,
 may already have beentoo reduced to be viable. Second, that the community, despite
 receivingproject benefits, would fail to support the project's conservation objectives, but
 would continue to press demands for land andresources that would eventually
 overwhelm the government's will and/or KWS' capacity to maintain or protect the
 reserve. The thirdrisk was that KWS, faced with competingdemands on its limited
 resources, would beunable to maintain a sufficient level o fmanagement and oversight
 duringthe project or to sustaintheproject benefits after its closure.

 2.19     Eventsduringproject implementationshowed that these concerns werejustified,
 althoughnone provedto becritical. The status of the forest ecosystem didnot improve
 duringimplementation, partlybecauseofexternal factors, althoughthe present conditions
may be a bit more hopeful. The community receivedfew benefits from the project, but it
i s not clear that the pressure on the reserve has increased and the present position i s more
o f a stalemate with a significant part o fthe community still hoping for some assistance to
establish themselves at the site that was designated and allocated. And, while KWS did
not implementthe project effectively, it i s guardingthe reserve, andmaintaining the
infiastructure and the overall status quo inthe reserve.



3. Analysis

RELEVANCE

3.1      Project relevance i s rated as substantial. The principal elements o f Kenya's
development objectives are to strengthen economic growth, enhance equity, and reduce
poverty. Tourism inits widest sense makes a significant contribution to Kenya's
economy, and wildlife-related tourism provides significant employment inlow income


4. The Borrower has updated this information incomments onthe report: "The 247 families that had
volunteered for resettlement at Witu were moved to the new site byK W S inJune 2005 and were issued
with letters o fallotment. The title deeds for the same have been signedand are being handed over to the
allotees on 17" November 2005 by the Minister o f Lands. The remaining families have requested for
relocationbut the logistics have yet to be worked out".

                                               8


rural areas. Inaddition, wildlife plays a significant role indeveloping the image on
which the country's tourism i s based, and i s significant increating positive views o f the
country's efforts to conserve wildlife and to generate support for these efforts. However,
inthe longrun,support for environmental effortswill not depend solelyonpublic interest
inthe `game park' aspectso fwildlife conservation, butalso onKenya's abilityto
maintainand strengthen links with the Conservation andbiological science community as
a whole.

3.2     The TRNPR i s one o f the few sites inKenya with a highlevel o f endemism, and
the projectresponded to the scientific rather than tourism aspects o f the country's
biodiversity. It attempted to demonstrate the use o f appliedresearch to help preserve and
maintainthis very complex and vulnerable ecosystem andtwo highly endangered species,
and to manage the reserve with the participation o f local stakeholders ina disadvantaged
region o fKenya. Without external input o fthe sort provided by GEF, Kenyai s only
able, throughKWS, to maintain a minimal level o freserveprotection and management
which may not be sufficient to ensure the project's global environmentalbenefits on a
sustainable basis. However, as discussedbelow, although local and internationalNGOs
indicatedinterest inthe project at the outset, this was not maintained and, inthe event,
the project has not served to strengthenlinks betweenKenya and international
environmental community.

EFFICACY

3.3     The overall goal o fthe project was to improve the conservation andmanagement
o fthe TRPNRwith participationand increased benefits for local communities. The
specific objectives were to: (i) the conservation o fthe uniquebiological
                                 support
community o f the Tana River riparianforests; (ii)  incorporate the results o ftargeted
research and monitoring into the management o f a fragile and complex ecosystem; and
(iii) identifiedthreatstotheecologicalintegrityandsurvivaloftheforest
    reduce
ecosystem.

3.4    Inrelationto these objectives, theproject's efficacy maybesummarized as
follows:

       (a) Insupport o f conservation, the infrastructure o fthe reserve was upgraded and
           the continuedpresence o fKWS staffincreased security inthe area and, while
           the combination o fhumanpressure and adverse climatic conditions ledto a
           decline inthe habitat inthe reserve and some decline inthe primate
           population, KWS has, by securing the area and working with the local
           communities, helpedensure some recovery inthe quality o f the habitat and in
           the number and conditions o fthe primates. As o f the time o fthe assessment
           mission the situation stillremains tenuous, however, andthe efficacy o fthis
           effort was modest.

       (b) A significant programo fresearch andmonitoringwork was undertakenafter
           the initial start-up delays, although some elements o f the work programwere
          not completed andmostly remaininabeyance after the abrupt termination o f
          project activities. The available researchresults were taken into account in

                                                9


             the preparation o f the adaptive management planbut again, with the abrupt
             terminationo f funding, this planhas been heavily scaled-back. Overall, the
             efficacy o f the effort to incorporate the results o fresearch into the
             management o fthe areawas modest.

         (c) Finally, for the various reasons outlined earlier, the project endedwithout any
             significant progress inachievingthe community development objectives, in
             that there was no improvement inthe relationship betweenthe reserve and the
             local communities. Infact, local communitieswere embitteredby the
             experience. As noted, KWS by securing the area andworking with the local
             population since completion has helpedto secure some improvement, but, the
             project itselfwas unable to reduce the principal threat to the integrityand
             survival o fthe ecosystem, the pressure o fpopulation, andthe efficacy o fthis
             effort was negligible.

Overall, given the crucial impact o fthe CD component, the efficacy o f the project
outcome i s rated as negligible, i.e. the objectives were not met due to major
shortcomings.

EFFICIENCY

3.5      Because o fthe nature o f the project, no attempt was made to assess a rate o f
returnto the expenditures ineither the appraisal or completionreports. Actual
expenditure, at US$1.9 million, was less thanone-third o fthe appraisal estimate o f
US$6.2 million. Expenditureon the research andmonitoring and reserve management
components was only 28 percent o f the appraisal estimate, US$0.82 million, compared to
US02.93 million. Although there were shortfalls inthese components, the expenditure
figures indicate that they were carried out ina reasonably cost-effective manner.

OUTCOME

3.6      Theproject clearly failed to achieve most o fit objectives andproduced only
limitedbenefits, mostly inimproving facilities andprotectioninthe reserve, while its
development impact was negligible and it is, therefore, ratedas unsatisfactory.


INSTITUTIONAL     DEVELOPMENT        IMPACT

3.7     The institutional development impact o fthe project was modest. Whatever the
demands o f its activities elsewhere inthe country, implementation o fthe Tana River
project requiredKWS to buildup its skills inmanagingdialoguewith local communities,
and indesigninga research agenda for adaptive management and incorporating the
results into the planning andmanagement o f a reserve. The suddentermination o f
fundingmeant that KWShasnot beenable to fully follow through to implementthe plan.
Onthe community dialogue side theywere thrust into a very difficult situationandthe
results o ftheir efforts inthe project areawere meager interms o f the objective o f moving
to collaborativemanagement with the local population.

                                                10


 SUSTAIN ABILITY

 3.8      Normally, a project i s expected to result ina set o f conditions that represent an
 improvement over those inthe pre-project period. The sustainability issue is whether the
 conditions created by the project will ensure that this improvement i s maintainedinthe
 face o f normal variation inunderlyingcircumstances. However, inthis case, there was
 minimal net improvement over the pre-project condition. While there was improvement
 inthe reserveinfrastructure, therelationshipwithlocalcommunities deteriorated. Also,
 partlybecauseof adversenaturalconditions, the conditionofthe ecosystem inthe reserve
 showed some deterioration duringthe project period, including a decline inthe number o f
 the two keyprimate species. Since the termination o f the project, under improved
 climatic conditions, there has beensome improvement inthe environmental status o f the
 reserve, and the overall situation i s much as it was before the project was undertaken.
 Overall, becausethe project didnot reduce the pressures on the reserve or improve the
 resilience o f its ecosystem to changes inthe climatic and economic environment
 impingingon it, the sustainability ratingmustbeunlikely.

 PERFORMANCE OFPARTICIPATING PARTIES

 3.9     The PPAR, as the ICR, normally assesses the performance o fthe Bank and the
 Borrower. Inthis case, the assessment believes that this review shouldbe extended to
 assess the roles o fthe GEF and the NGOs. The Bank was responsible for the day to day
 management o fthe project and normally GEFplays a passive role inthe operation o f a
project. Inthis case, however, its actions and decisions had a critical impact on the
 outcome o f the project. NGOs also had a critical role inthe outcome inthis case.

BORROWER       PERFORMANCE

3.10     KenyaWildlife Service. Theprojectwas implementedbythe KenyaWildlife
 Service (KWS) with a limited role for other Government agencies. The overwhelming
majorityo fKWS' activities relate to the major tourist oriented parks and reserves
featuring the major mammalian species, and it i s from these parks that they generate most
o f their income. The TRPNR, however, is o f only limitedtourist interest, and has
minimal income potential. Partlybecause it presented different problems than their
mainstream activities, and also becauseo f its separate funding, KWS initially managed
the Tana RiverReserve separately from their mainline operations.

3.1 1    Consistent with this separation, K W S initially recruited outside the agency for
several o f the project positions at the reserve. This took time and the project was slow to
get underway. There were additional problems. The significant physical and social
differences between the Tana River district and the highlands o fKenya from where
almost all the staffcame, meant that these staffwill have been unfamiliar with the tribal
groups with whom they had to deal, o f the detail o f their circumstances, and o f the
principalproblems they faced. This undoubtedly contributed to misunderstandings with
local groups and complicated the process o freachingagreement with them over the
nature o fproject assistance and o ftheir future role, ifany, inthe reserve.

                                                 11


3.12     Staffturnover was a problemat the reserve from the outset and several o f the
initial officers didnot stay long. For example, Bank supervision reports indicatedthat
there were major shortfalls inthe management team o f the reserve betweenmid 1998 and
early2000. A report inmid-2000 notedthat inorder to address the issue KWS had
decided to recruit for the vacant positions from its own ranks, partly also to help to
integrate the reserve operations more closely into the overall organization. The scale o f
the problem i s shown by the fact that "the following positionshave now beenfilled by
KWS staff: Project Coordinator; Project Scientist; FieldActivities Coordinator; and
Accountant. The positions o f Agro-forester, Restoration Forester andDataAnalyst are
still vacant." This i s not to suggest that the positions were vacant for the whole period,
butthe list itselfindicates the scale ofthe turnover problem.

3.13    KWS i s also a military style organization, complete with military style uniforms
and vehicles, and weapons. This reflects the overall focus o fthe agency as a protective
force gearedto protecting o fthe major mammalian species (especially elephants) from
poaching. Organizations o f this type tend to operate independently and to have a distinct
culture. One cannot know whether this military style was a discouragement to Kenyans
with community development experiencejoining the organization, thus reducingKWS'
ability to recruit suitable staff for the social aspects o fthe project. Inadditionthe
military style can create an atmosphere o fintimidationwhen dealing with localpeople.
All ofthis willnot havehelpedimproverelations betweenKWS andthe local
community.

3.14    As well as the problematic relationship with local communities, the staff
discontinuity and shortfalls also affected the dialogue with the local authorities. Lack o f
senior project staffmeant that the project often could not be represented at local
meetings,reducing the pressure on local authorities to identifypossible sites for
resettlement and suggesting a lack o f interest on the part o f KWS.

3.15    These problems o f continuity are illustratedbythe performanceo f three
committees created to foster coordinationwith other agencies and groups at the central
and local levels:
    -       TheSteering Committee chaired bythe Director o fKWS, included
            representatives o f relevant national groups such as the NMK,the Tana River
            Development Authority (TARDA), East African Wildlife Society (EAWLS)
            and senior staff o fthe reserve. It i s reportedthat the committee only met once
            and the desired consensus among the various parties was not developed.
            However, this was a small, highly localizedproject, and the issues to be
            addressednationally among agencies would have been few.
   -        TheJoint Reserve Management Committee (JRMC) comprising the senior
            staff o f the reserve, local administrators and councilors and representatives o f
            local communities. This was constituted in 1995 but stopped meetingin 1998.
            Formally, it had 35 members, many o fwhom were essentially political
            figures. It was too unwieldy to be useful as a forum to discuss ideas indetail
            and, after only a few meetings, KWS let it fall into abeyance. Local level

                                                       12


               coordinationwas the realproblem for the project and another attempt was
               made to develop a local group.
     -         The Community Advisory Committee. In2000 KWS inviteda number o f local
               groups, includingNGOsto a meeting o f a newbody to take over the role o f
               the JRMC and improve consultation with local groups. Apparently nobody
               came and the effort was abandoned. This mayjust be an indication that local
               groups had givenup on the project bythat time and saw no point to more
               meetings.

 3.16     Minutes were not kept at most o f these meetings and, because o f the rapid
 turnover o fKWS staff it i s perhaps not surprisingthat theywere not productive. But
 their sputtering performance also suggestsKWS' difficulties inworking effectivelywith
 outside groups.

 3.17     Since the project was terminated, KWS has continuedactivities inthe reservebut
 the scale has been cut back with the reduction o f f~nding.~

3.18     Other Government. There were difficulties incollaborationbetweenthe reserve
management andthe local authorities, as discussed above. As a result, there were some
delays inthe response o f district officials to the question o f allocation o f land for
settlement by those moving from the reserve or the adjacent villages. Once central
government agencies, especially the Ministryo f Lands and Settlement (MLS)became
involved, however, reasonable progress was made. A site about 50 km from the reserve
was identifiedand the MLS took a number o f steps to make the arrangements as flexible
as possible. Administrative fees, normally requestedfrom settlers, were to be waived
and, rather than 10acres normally allocated inits resettlement schemes, 15 acreplots
were authorized inview o f the fact that the settlers were givingup rights to land
resources ina nationalreserve to reduce pressure on natural habitat and it was reasonable
to provide some compensation. Government also involved the German aid agency
(GTZ), which was supporting other settlement activities, to assist withplanningand
potentially with implementation.

3.19     Insummary, KWSneverreallygot to gripswiththeproject. The latter was not
central to KWS' mission and it was not familiar with working with local communities in
the way requiredby the project. Overall, althoughperformanceo fthe other agencieswas
satisfactory, overall Borrower performance was unsatisfactory.

BANKPERFORMANCE

3.20    The Bank devoted considerable resources to the project over more then ten years.
The ICR does not provide an estimate o fthe resources usedprior to appraisal, butthey


5. Incommenting on the report, Kenya Wildlife Service noted some steps that they have taken since the
mission's visit to strengthensecurity at the reserve and augment research: "Posting o f more Rangers to
enhance security and to stop encroachment and destruction o f vegetation. Researchon: (i)  Primate
population especially Tana Mangabey and Red Colobus inrelation to reserve fragmentation; (ii)   Impacts on
grazing onriparian vegetation and mitigation mechanisms; and (iii)  Amphibian and fish diversity".

                                               13


 musthavebeensubstantial since preparation covered five andahalfyears. Throughthat
 periodboththe Bank and KWS persisted inattempting to pursue an agreement with local
 communitiesthrough aparticipatory approach. However, this approach was stymiedby
 local conditions. The major question i s whether, given the extendedpreparationperiod
 and the risks identified, the Bank and GEF should have stopped the project prior to
 appraisal, given the localhostility to the project. It i s clear that the Bank staff directly
 involvedwith the project considered that the effort to maintainthe unique ecosystem was
 urgentand important. Butthe five year preparation periodwas unusually long, by any
 standard, andkeyissues remained unresolved. The Bank recognized the general riskiness
 o f the enterprise andthe experimental nature o fthe project (see para. 2.5). But what
 seems not to have been adequately considered was that, ifthe experiment were to fail, as
 it did, the consequenceswould fall most heavily on the localpeople who were already the
 most dubious about its potential benefit to them. Itwas hoped that the fact that the
 project was underwaywould convincethe local community to come to an agreement. In
 retrospect, however, that only postponed the inevitable andthe project's quality at entry
 must berated as unsatisfactory.

 3.21     The project was supervised from the Nairobi office and there was regular contact
betweenBank staffandthe implementingagencies. The major issue on supervision is
the failure incommunicationbetween the Bank andGEF that was eventually to leadto its
 failure. While it was not unreasonable for Bank staff to assume that the GEF was
familiar with the project, becauseo fthe prolonged difficulties indrawing up a proposal
for relocation, and especially since some GEF staffhadpaid a briefvisit to the site while
inKenya, the Bankwas ultimatelyresponsible for informingGEFandfor ensuringthat
they were inagreement with the outline o f the expectedproposal. However, this didnot
happen. Overall Bank performance i s rated as unsatisfactory.

GLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY

3.22     Although PPARsnormally confine themselves to assessingthe performance o f
the Bank andBorrower, inthis case GEFplayeda central role inthe project, inparticular,
interminatingit.

3.23     The project was proposed almost immediately after the pilot phase o f the GEF
was funded. At the time, GEF hadvirtually no staff and no agreed guidelines for
reviewing proposals. These were receivedby the three collaborating agencies and, after
an initial review by them with the assistance, as necessary, o f environmentaland
scientific experts, they were forwarded to GEF. The countries providing the funds for
GEFhadagreedthat they should beusedto support efforts directed to addressing
internationally significant environmentalissues. At the time, priority was also given to
undertaking operations that could help guide the evolution o fthe portfolio, assuming that
GEFbecamepermanent. The Tana Riverproject, with its uniqueecosystem, the needto
deal with a situationwhere communities lived within a protected area, and the fact that it
hadbeenproposedby some o f the NGO community, was clearly the type of operation
beingsought for GEF support.

3.24     Bythe time that the projectwas appraised in1996 the GEFhadbeenfully
established as an institution. However, there i s no evidence that, duringthe five year

                                               14


 period, it considered abandoning support for the project, evenwhenno agreement could
 bereachedwith the local communities. As implementationproceeded into 2000,
 developments inthe project were evolving, but neither GEF nor the Bank the kept the
 other adequately inthe picture. Although the Bank was reportingto GEF onprogress and
 forwarding supervision reports, GEF was not formally apprised o f the likely scale o f the
 adjustment to the community development component that would berequiredto facilitate
 resettlement. As a result, whenthe detailed proposal was presentedit was a surprise.

 3.25    But,it should not havebeen. Fromthe outset the major issuesinpreparation and
 implementationwere related to the community development component, inparticular to
 the question o fpossible resettlement. As the ICRpoints out the references to "relocation
 assistance" inthe Project Document were vague and not entirely consistent. But inthe
 early stages o fpreparation KWS was assuredthat resettlement couldbe fundedthrough a
 GEF grant. While the Bank andGEFwere not inweekly, or evenmonthly, contact over
 the project, it is difficult to understandhow GEF appearsnot to have anticipated that,
 giventhe problems there were over resolvingthe issue, the project would eventually have
 to allocate greater funds to support the relocationof those families willing to move. The
 two organizations are housed inadjacent buildings and informal communication between
 themoccurs all the time. Infact, Bank staffbelieve that injust suchinformal
 communications they were given no redor even amber lights on the issue. The final
proposal should not have beena surprise and if GEF had serious concerns, it should have
 expressedthem to the Bank earlier.

THENGOs

3.26    NGOsplayeda limited,but insomerespects critical, role inthe project and some
comment appearsjustified.

3.27    Ithasbeennotedthat the initialprojectproposalcame through the National
MuseumofKenya andthe relatedPrimateResearch Institute with considerable support
from internationalenvironmentalNGOs. There i s an active NGO community inKenya
andthey soonbecameinterested intheproject. While some, primarilythe environmental
/conservation groups were supportive, their support went only so far. The AMP called
for the use o f an NGOcollaborative agreement to implement the community management
o fpriority forests. However, searches for an NGOwilling to collaborate were
unsuccessful. There was also an undercurrent o f criticism from other NGOs and from
elsewhere, that was often aired inthe localmedia andthat exacerbated existing tensions
inandaroundthereserve.

3.28    The internationalconservation NGOs were broadly supportive o fthe project but,
duringthe implementationperiodsomewere lobbyingthe GEFto concentrate its limited
finding andnot to use them to support more general development activities, even ifthey
didassist conservation efforts. This undoubtedlywas a factor inGEF's final decision not
to support the proposedreallocation and extension.

3.29    It should also benotedthat, althoughinternational conservation NGOshad
stressedthe importance o fthe threatened ecosystem intheir initial support for GEF
fundingfor theproject, and that the decision to terminate andnot get involved inan

                                                15


 expensive resettlement effort respondedto their concerns about needingto use funds for
 research, etc., none o f them has since come forward to provide any fundingto support
 continuationo f evena limitedprogram o fresearch at the site. Overall, the interventions
 o fNGOs didnot have a positiveimpact on the outcome o f the project.



 4. Conclusion

 4.1      The primaryreason for failure o f the TRPNRproject was that it was over
 ambitious. Inaddition to improving the management o f the reserve and supporting a
 focused program o fresearch, it aimed to assist the people living in, or adjacent to the
 reserve to improve their livelihoods inways that would reduce the pressure that they had
beenplacing on the critical parts o f the reserve. There were a number o f social reasons
 why it was difficult for the KWS to work with these groups to successfully achieve this
 objective. Inaddition, however, conditions inthe wider region around the reserve
 conspired against the project, amplifying these local problems.

  4.2    With hindsight, there is arealquestion as to whether the project should havebeen
  attempted with the situationinTana River District as it was. The areawas poor and had
  a history o f failed development efforts. No development activity o f significance was
  going on at the time and, therefore, the project was more prominent locally than it would
  have under more `normal' conditions. As a result, when localbenefits from the research
  and reserve management activities were slow to materialize, considerable tensions were
  created with the wider localpopulation.

  4.3    What would have beenbetter was a wider development project that included as
  one o f its objectives the conservation o f a unique and diverse biological community in
 the reserve. Such an approach would have requiredproject planningto look at the
  development prospects o f the wider area and see what could be done to promote them in
  such a way as to benefit the `target group' inparticular, andto reduce the pressure on the
 biologicalresource. Inother words, it would be a rural development project with a
 significant biodiversity conservation component, rather than a biodiversity Conservation
 project with a dominant community development component.

4.4     Giventhe conditions inthe localregionit mightnot havebeenpossible to devise
an economicallyjustifiable project. However, inany case, such a project was not a
feasible option since the proposal was for a stand-alone operation with funding from the
GEF, so that it hadto centrally focus onbiodiversityconservation. Also, since it was
identifiedinthe first months o fthe GEFpilot period, the emphasis then was onbuilding
up GEF's portfolio, for which this operation seemedideally suited. The belatedproposal
to increase the share o f community development funding to significantly over 50 percent
was what caused the GEF to endits support. Whether a collaborative effort with the
Bank (Le. an IDA fundedrural development project with GEF co-financing the
biodiversity conservation components) would have been acceptable, i s unknowable.

                                          16


5. Lessons

5.1  Two major lessonsmaybe drawn from the experience o f this project:

   0 The fact that the program for relocationofthose willing to move from the reserve
     was not agreedbefore the project became effectivewas a handicap to
     implementationo fthe whole community development component. Unless local
     communities believe that their interests are at the heart o fproject design, they are
     unlikelyto actively support project implementation. Uncertaintymustbe
     removedfrom the core components o f a projectbefore implementation begins.

   0  When arelatively small, stand alone objective, such as conserving the unique
     biodiversity o fthe TRPNR is considered as the basis for a project, the design
     must lookbeyondthe immediatelyadjoining areathat is impacting it, butmust
     take into account conditions inthe wider region, since they canhave a crucial
     impact on the success or failure o fthe project.



                                                     19                                                           Annex B


Annex B. BasicData Sheet

TANA RIVERPRIMATENATIONALRESERVE
CONSERVATIONPROJECT(TF-28500)


                                                  Appraisal            Actual or                            Actual as % of
                                                  Estimate         current estimate                     appraisal estimate
IDA Credit                                           6.2                  1.36                                  21.9
Government                                           0.94                 0.19                                  20.2
Cofinancing
Total projectcost                                    7.14                 1.55                                  21.7



                                                                     --
                                                                                                 "       F    P  .
                                              --         Original       -                                   Actual
Appraisal                                                                                             May 22, 1995
Boardapproval                                                                                November21, 1996
Effectiveness                                                                                          July 1, 1997
MidTerm Review                                                                                  January 17,2000
Closingdate                                            June 30,2001                          December31,2001            ----*-




                                                          ActualMatest Estimate
                                     N" Staff weeks                             *                         us$us$(looo)
                                                                                 ,ap---.3L1111)-a3-s--D1111(




IdentificationlPreparation                      21.5                                                  85.1
Supervision                                     114.5                                                145.3

--Total
ICR                                             12.2                                                  14.7
                                                175.5              -.                        _289.2     -                  --
                                  I-                           a__




MissionData
                                                                                                               Performance rating
                             Date
                          (month/year)   persons
                                          No' Of       Specializations represented                    Implementation     Development
                                                                                                             status       objectives
 Appraisal/                  1995            5     Ecologist, Anthropologist, Research
 Negotiation                                           Specialist, Protected Areas
                                                    Specialist, Management Specialist
 Supervision
 Supervision 1               1997            2       National Resource Management                              S               S
                                                          Specialist, Ecologist
 Supervision 2               1998            6       National Resource Management                              U               U
                                                       Specialist, NGO Specialist,
                                                   Sociologist, Research Management
                                                   Consultant, Financial Management
                                                    Specialist, Procurement Specialist
 Supervision 3              1999            6       National Resource Management                               U               U
                                                   Specialist, Resettlement Specialist,
                                                      Ecologist, Park Management
                                                    Specialist, Financial Management

                                                       20                                           Annex B


                                                                                                 Performance rating
                        (month/year)
                            Date          persons
                                           No.of         Specializations represented        Implementation Development
                                                                                                status      objectives
                                                      Specialist, Procurement Specialist
Supervision 4               2000              7        National Resource Management               U              U
                                                      Specialist, Ecologist, EIA Specialist,
                                                      Resettlement Specialist, Sociologist,
                                                      FinancialManagement Specialist,
                                                            Procurement Specialist
Supervision5                2001              3        National Resource Management               S              U
                                                         Specialist, Ecologist, Social
                                                            Development Specialist
                            2002              3         National Resource Economist,              U              U
                                                            Biodiversity Specialist,
                                                           Environmental Specialist
Performance Rating: S:Satisfactory; U: Unsatisfactory.

                                          21                              Annex C


 Annex C. Borrower Comments



                             REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                            MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Telegraphic Address: 22921                                     THE TREASURY
FINANCE  - NAIROBI                                             P.O. Box 30007
Telephone: 252299                                                    NAIROB1
When replying pleasequote                                              KENYA

Ref. No. EA/FA 63/127/02/C(23)                           23rd November, 2005
       and date


Mr.Colin Bruce
Country Director
World BankCountry Offices
NAIROBI


RE:   KENYA
      (TF-28500)
             -TANA   RIVER PRIMATE NATIONAL RESERVE CONSERVATION PROJECT

      DRAFT PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT



Referenceis made to your letter dated 25th October 2005 on the above subject.

The Government of Kenya through the Kenya Wildlife Service have studied the
report by the Operations EvaluationDepartment of the World Bank and found it
well balanced. However there .is need to update the report on the following
aspects that touch on the PostTerminationSituation:-

1. Resettlement Programme                                                            i


         The 247 families that had volunteered for resettlement at Witu were
         movedto the new site by KWS in June 2005 and were issuedwith letters
         of allotment. The Title Deeds for the same have been signed and were
         handed over to the allotees on 17th November 2005 by the Minister of
         Lands.
         The remaining families have requested for relocation but the logistics
         haveyet to be worked out.

2. Reserve Management

   This hasbeenstrengthenedthrough:-

      * Postingof a more effective Warden
         Postingof more Rangersto enhancesecurity and to stop encroachment
         and destructionof vegetation
         Researchon:-

                                                   THE WORLD BANK
                                                 RECEIVED IN CD'S OFFICE

                                       22                              Annex C




    [i)   Primate populationespecially Tana Mangabeyand Colobusin relation
          to reservefragmentation.
    (ii)  Impactsof grazing on riparianvegetation and mitigationmechanisms.
    (iii) Amphibian and fish diversity.

Please take into account the above comments while finalizing the draft Project
PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) to be distributedto the World Bank Board
of ExecutiveDirectors.

The purpose of this letter is to send to the Bank the Government of Kenya
commentswhich we hope will be incorporatedin the final report.

