Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028500
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund
Project Agreement
(Tana River Primate National Reserve Conservation Project)
between the
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund
and the
KENYA WILDLIFE SERVICE
Dated February 25, 1997
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028500
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 25, 1997, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the 
Global Environment Facility (GEF), in respect of grant funds provided to the Global 
Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund) by certain members of the Bank as 
participants of the GEF, and the KENYA WILDLIFE SERVICE (KWS):
WHEREAS by the Global Environment Facility Trust Fund Grant Agreement of even 
date herewith between the Republic of Kenya (the Recipient) and the Bank (the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Recipient an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million four hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 4,400,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, but only on condition that KWS agrees to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS KWS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement with the Recipient, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the 
Page  2
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01 (a) KWS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement and, to this end, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial and conservation practices, with due regard to 
ecological and environmental factors, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Bank and KWS shall otherwise agree, KWS shall carry out the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KWS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04. KWS shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KWS shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KWS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Grant.
(b)
KWS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Grant or the performance by KWS of its obligations under this 
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
Section 2.06. KWS shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an environmental and 
social impact assessment prior to the initiation of any activity which entails either 
significant physical development within the TRPNR or the voluntary resettlement of any 
individuals presently occupying land within the TRPNR.  KWS shall not initiate any 
involuntary resettlement during the life of the Project of any persons occupying land 
within the TRPNR at the time of Project appraisal without prior approval of the Bank.
Section 2.07. (a) KWS shall, not later than November 30, 1998, carry out, 
jointly with the Recipient and the Bank, a midterm review of the progress made in the 
carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The review shall cover, inter alia, (i) the overall progress made in 
Project implementation, (ii) progress on voluntary relocation activities including 
land allocation aspects, (iii) progress towards more transparent selection of Joint 
Reserve Management Committee membership, (iv) review of deployment of vehicles 
financed under the Project, (v) financing of Microprojects; (vi) the monitoring and 
evaluation of Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria agreed with the 
Bank, referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement; (vii) 
review of the organizational structure of Project management, including the positions 
of Project Accountant, the Data Analyst and the Community Development Specialist; 
(viii) review of the comprehensive TRPNR management plan and the proposed second phase 
of the reserve management program, (ix) the status and impact of the research and 
monitoring components and the proposed research and monitoring program for the 
remainder of the Project; and (x) the need for redesigning and restructuring of 
Project components experiencing implementation difficulties.
(c)
Not later than one month prior to such midterm review, KWS shall furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and comments, a report covering items specified in Section 
Page  3
2.07 (b) above, including an evaluation of the progress achieved in complying with 
Project implementation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, and recommendations 
resulting from the studies conducted under the Project. 
(d)
Promptly after completing such review, KWS shall carry out the 
recommendations emanating from the said review, as agreed between KWS and the Bank.
Section 2.08. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, KWS shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between KWS and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project, including appropriate levels of investment in research and 
community program activities; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with KWS on 
the said plan.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KWS
Section 3.01. KWS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, conservation, environmental and 
ecological practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KWS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound technical, 
financial and management practices.
Section 3.03. KWS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04 KWS shall, not later than May 31 of every year, submit to the Bank 
for approval its training program for the following year, and thereafter implement the 
program as approved by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) KWS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, 
in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
(b)
KWS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
audited for each fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  4
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of KWS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
(b)
If the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in Section 6.02 of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, 
the Bank shall promptly so notify KWS.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement, and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement, shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or telefax to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made 
at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party 
shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)]
For KWS
Kenya Wildlife Service
P.O. Box 40241
Nairobi
Kenya
Telex:
Telefax:
22804
254 2 505866 
or
Nairobi
254 2 501752
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KWS, or by KWS 
on behalf of the Recipient under the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Director of KWS or by such other person or persons as KWS shall 
designate in writing, and KWS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
Page  5
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the
Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
KENYA WILDLIFE SERVICE
By /s/ Benjamin Kipkorir
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and Works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 
Page  6
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines or through the United Nations Inter-Agency 
Procurement Services Office.
3.
Community Participation
Works and goods for Microprojects estimated to cost no more than $10,000 per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,650,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 3.15 of the 
Guidelines and in the Project Implementation Manual.
4.
Force Account
Works which meet the requirement of paragraph 3.08 of the Guidelines, and 
costing $100,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may, with the Bank’s prior 
agreement, be carried out by force account in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraph of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, 
shortlists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports 
and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of 
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
Project Implementation Manual
1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, KWS shall apply the procedures and 
guidelines set out in the Project Implementation Manual, and KWS shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Manual or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of 
the Bank, will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
Project Coordination and Management
2.
(a)
In order to facilitate the carrying out of the Project, KWS shall 
establish and maintain a Project Steering Committee chaired by the Director of KWS and 
including representatives of the Tana and Athi River Development Authority, of the 
departments of KWS and the local government assisting in carrying out any part of the 
Project and representatives of selected conservation organizations.
(b)
The Project Steering Committee shall be responsible for approving 
staffing appointments and contracts, reviewing semiannual Project progress reports, 
reviewing and approving annual work plans and budgets and participating in periodic 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project.
3.
In order to assist KWS in implementing the Project, KWS shall, not later than 
April 1, 1997, appoint:
(a)
a Project Coordinator who will be responsible for coordinating the 
carrying out of the several parts of the Project by different departments of KWS;
(b)
a Project Secretary and a Project Accountant to assist the Project 
Coordinator;
(c)
a Field Activities Coordinator who will report to the Project Coordinator 
to ensure the coordination of logistics, including the use of vehicles and other 
facilities, and the scheduling of Project activities at the TRPNR;
(d)
the Community Development Specialist;
(e)
the Senior Research Scientist; and
(f)
the Data Analyst.
Microprojects under Part B of the Project
Eligibility Criteria for Microprojects
4.
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 above, Microprojects shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant only if they are determined 
by KWS, on the basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual, to satisfy the eligibility criteria 
specified below and in more detail in the Project Implementation Manual, which shall 
include, inter alia, the following:
(a)
the Microproject shall be consistent with the Community Action Plan 
developed by the village in which the activity is proposed, through the mechanism of a 
Participatory Rural Appraisal exercise carried out with the assistance of KWS and 
endorsed by the District Development Committee;
(b)
the Microproject shall promote and support the conservation goals of the 
Project,  either directly or through a linkage identified in the Community Action 
Plan;
(c)
the Microproject shall be initiated, proposed and implemented by a 
community group which meets the criteria of organization, governance, accountability 
and transparency set out in the KWS Guidelines for the Wildlife Development Fund;
(d)
the Microproject shall involve local representatives of government 
agencies as appropriate for implementation of different aspects, such as construction 
or rehabilitation of social infrastructure facilities;
(e)
the Microproject shall not cause adverse impacts to the reserve ecosystem 
Page  8
or to the general environment or the health or welfare of the community (as determined 
by a prior environmental screening or environmental impact assessment carried out in 
conformity with KWS’ regulations);
(f)
the Microproject shall be economically, financially and technically 
viable, in accordance with standards defined in the Project Implementation Manual;
(g)
the Beneficiary community must provide at least 25% of the estimated 
Microproject costs, in the form of cash, materials, labor or other services, with at 
least 5% of the total being in cash.
Terms and Conditions of Grants made for Microprojects
5.
Microprojects proposed by community groups will be submitted to the Community 
Wildlife Officer for evaluation by KWS, in accordance with the procedures set out in 
KWS’ Guidelines for the Wildlife Development Fund.  Upon approval of a Microproject 
proposal, KWS shall enter into a Microproject Agreement with the community group 
through their designated representatives.  The terms and conditions of the 
Microproject Agreement shall include provisions pursuant to which:
(a)
each community group proposing a project shall establish a Microproject 
Committee which shall be responsible for Microproject implementation;
(b)
the community group undertakes to fulfill its responsibilities with 
respect to promoting and supporting conservation goals, as set out in the Community 
Action Plan; 
(c)
a work plan and schedule will be developed and agreed for the 
Microproject, against which Project funds will be disbursed in stages;
(d)
the Microproject Committee shall be responsible for implementing the 
Microproject in accordance with the provisions of the Microproject Agreement and the 
Project Implementation Manual, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, environmental, biodiversity conservation and managerial 
standards, and maintaining adequate records;
(e)
the Microproject Committee shall have the obligation to report to KWS on 
the use of the Grant and the progress made in the implementation of the Microproject;
(f)
financing of Microprojects shall be on a grant basis;
(g)
the goods, civil works and services to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant for Microprojects shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
KWS shall have the right to obtain all such information as KWS or the 
Bank shall reasonably request regarding Microproject implementation, administration, 
operations and the financial condition of the Microproject Committee and the benefits 
to be derived from the Microproject; and 
(i)
KWS shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Microproject Committee to use the proceeds of the Grant for a Microproject upon 
failure by any such Microproject Committee, or the Community Group which it 
represents, to perform any of its respective obligations under the Microproject 
Agreement.
