Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C A  /S-/9t- 2Y-
Report No. 5036-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
July 11, 1984
General Agriculture Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriztion.



BASIC DATA.
CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1.00 - IRs. U1
IRs. 1.00   US$0.09
WEIGHTS AND NEASURES
The metric system has been used.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACF      Assistant Conservator of Forests
ACCF     Additional Chief Conservator of Forests
CCF      Chief Conservator of Forests
CF       Conservator of Forests
CPCRI    Central Plantation  Crops Research Institute
DEA      Department of Economic Affairs, GOI
DCF      Deputy Conservator of Forests
FD       Forest Department
GOI      Government of India
GOK      Government of Kerala
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
KAU      Kerala Agricultural University
km2      square kilometers
KFRI     Kerala Forest Research Institute
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LPG      liquified petroleum gas
NAF      Minister of Agriculture and Forests
MAI      Mean Annual Increment
m3       cubic meters
MEO      Monitoring and Evaluation Office
PEO      Publicity and Extension Office
RFO      Range Forest Officer
SFW      Social Forestry Wing
SCF      Standard Conversion Factor
T&V      Training and Visit System



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KERWAA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
TABI! OF CONTENTS
Pate No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........          ..............................         1
II.  BACKGROUND ........**...*ee*.*****..**.**************                    2
A. Forestry in India              ..............................     2
B. The Bank's Involvement in Indian Forestry .......                 4
C. Agriculture and Forestry in Kerala .............                  5
- Agriculture ..................................                5
- Current Forest Conditions              ...................    6
- Forests in the State Economy    ..............     ...        6
- Factors in Decline of Forests              ...............    8
D. Forest Policy and Organization in Kerala ........                 9
- Forest Policy             ...............................     9
- Forest Organization ...    ............. ..  .....            9
II. TEE PROJECT            ..........................................       11
B. Detailed Features . ................ .....                       12
- Plantation Program .... ...... ......  ........ ..           13
a) Farm Forestry             ...........................    14
b) Block Plantations on Government Land ....               14
c) Strip Plantations .....         ..................      15
d) Involvement of Tribals             ..................   15
- Nurseries and Seedling Distribution .........                16
- Plantation Maintenance and Protection .......                18
- Extension and Publicity ................e.....               18
- Training            ....................................     19
- Research and Studies . ......... ........ .. ....            21
IV.  ORGANIZATION AID MANAGEMNT ..........................                   Z2
V.   COST ESTIMATES. FINANCING. PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT                 26
A. Project Cost Estimates .........................                 26
B. Proposed Financing .0.... .. .. . . .. . .  .. ..  .... . see.... .  28
C. Procurement .. ............ sees...... ...... ... ....           28
D. Disbursements  ..........* ...... .....                          29
E. Accounts and Audit ............................                  30
This documnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwige be dislosed without World Bank authofiution.



-ii-
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY  31
A. Yields and Production ..........................      31
B. Marketing of Produce . .....    .....,....,           32
C. Financial Results and Cost Recovery      ............  33
VII. BENEFITS. JUSTIFICATION AID RISK ........    .............  34
A. Benefits         ............  .... .......***...     34
B. Justification ............... a ................      36
C. Economic Analysis ...............................     36
D. Sensitivity Analysis ...................              37
E. Project Risks ..............     .......* ......      39
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS ....................                .      40
List of Tables
3.03 - Phasing of Plantation Program        ......................  13
5.01 - Project Cost Summary ................. 60609.006.6690     27
6.01 - Per Hectare Yields of Major Species to be
Planted Under Project .0........,,   ...........         31
6.02 - Estimated Incremental Production u.........se -   32
7.01 - Seneitivity Analysis....................* ..........      38
List of Annexes
Annex 1 - Species Information
Annex 2 - Comparative Figures on Bank-Financed Social Forestry Projects
Annex 3 - Project Costs:
Table 1: Sunmary by Component and by Time
Table 2:  Summary Account by Time (including contingencies)
Table 3:  Plantation Establishment and Management Costs
Table 4:  Organization and Management Costs
Table 5:  Extension and Publicity Costs
Table 6:  Training Coats
Table 7:  Research and Studies Costs
Annex 4 - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5 - Financial Analysis
Annex 6 - Economic Analysis



-iii-
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:             Government or Kerala (GOK).
Amount:                  SDR 30.6 million
(US$31.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
On-lending Terms:        From the Government of India (GOI) to the Government
of Kerala as part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Proiect DescriDtion:    The project would increase supplies of fuelvood,
small timber and poles through the establisbment of
about 85,000 ha of plantations. It would also
execute a pilot program for producing medicinal
plants and strengthen the institutional capabilities
through provision for training of existing personnel;
additional staff; investment in research and addi-
tional vehicles and equipment. A wood balance study
vould also be undertaken. The project faces no major
risks. However, wastage of seedlings could occur if
the Social Forestry Wing's capacity for distribution
is overstretched. The risk would be minimized by an
undertaking that GOK would not expand the seedling
distribution program without prior consultation with
the Association. Since it is intended to use the
existing agricultural extension service instead of
expanding the extension service of the Department of
Forestry, the new approach entails a risk regarding
effective coordination. however, GOK has finalized
arrangements satisfactory to IDA to ensure effective
coordination between the Department of Agriculture
and Forestry Department with regard to providing
forestry extension services. Furthermore, insect
damage could occur on Ailanthus trees. However,
effective insecticides are available and extension
advice would focus on the potential problem.



-iv-
Estimated Cost LJ/:
(US$ millions)
Local        ForeiRn         Total
A.  Organization and Management             14.4            0.8           15.2
B.  Plantation Activities
Seedling Production                     12.9           1.5           14.4
Large Block Plantations                  6.4           0.0            6.4
Small Block Plantations                  0.4            -             0.4
Strip Plantations                        0.8            -             0.8
Tribal Fuelvood Plantations              0.8            -             0.8
Tribal Medicinal Pilot Scheme            0.1            -             0.1
Plantation Protection                    0.3            -             0.3
Sub-total Plantation Activities             21.7            1.5          23.2
C.  Extension and Publicity                  0.3            0.1           0.4
D.  Training                                 2.1            0.4           2.5
E.  Research and Studies                     0.1             -            0.1
Total Baseline Costs                        38.6            2.8          41.4
Physical Contingencies                       2.4            0.2           2.6
Price Contingencies                          9.8            0.7          10.5
Total Project Cost                          50.8            3.7          54.5
Financing Plan:                                       (US$ millions)
Local        Foreiftn        Total
GOI/GOK                   22.7            -            22.7
IDA                       28.1          3.7            31.8
Total                50.8          3.7            54.5
Estimated Disbursements                            (US$ millions)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual             2.6     4.6      4.7     5.8     6.0      6.3     1.8
Cumulative         2.6     7.2    11.9    17.7    23.7    30.0    31.8
Rate of Return:    About 26%.
Appraisal Report: No. 5036-IN, dated July 11, 1984.
Ij Includes taxes and duties of US$1.5 million equivalent.



INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Kerala has the highest population density in India  at 654 persons
per km2. Although forest lands officially cover 11,239 kmi in the state,
thl high population means that over two thousand persons depend on each
km for fuelvood and other wood products. Furthermore, the pressure on
existing forest land has intensified as large tracts of forests have been
converted to other uses.
1.02    The poorer urban and rural populations have been particularly
affected, as pressures grow on existing wood products. Iu rural areas,
where nearly 90% of landholdings are under one hectare, the rural poor
are faced with the problem of inadequate fuel supply. The fuel sources
available to be gathered per family have become constrained. Rural
families could have turned to purchase of more fuelvood, but the rapid
price rises which have accompanied constrained fuelwood availability have
limited that option. The situation only promises to become more critical
as productive forest land declines and population continues growing.
1.03    Whereas the rural poor can at least supplement some fuel needs
with agricultural wastes, the urban poor are more dependent on fuelwood
and cannot afford to pay for costlier alternatives such as gas.
1.04    Government of Kerala (GOK) has become concerned about the growing
pressure on wood products, and has attempted in the last two years to help
alleviate the situation through a program of social forestry. Initial
results revealed considerable potential in particular for farmers to plant
trees on their own field boundaries and unproductive agricultural land.
The Forest Department Social Forestry Wing achieved a distribution of
about 100 million (M) seedlings in two years, in addition to planting 4418
hectares (ha) of government land. This success in distribution suggested
the potential for not only substantial production of wood products through
social forestry, but also for an important source of income for farmers.
1.05    But the seedlings survival anid growth rates have been inadequate,
altthough they could be raised through better nursery and extension tech-
niques.  A more fundamental issue is the need to strengthen and provide
additional support for the Social Forestry Wing and related institutions.
To begin wit:h, the Social Forestry Wing has attempted to serve large
numbers of geographically dispersed farmers through centralized management
of seedling production and distribution, and extension systems, when such
systems are operated more efficiently on a decentralized level.
1.06    In order to help strengthen its institutional capacity for high
quality distribution and plantation programe in social forestry, and to
further economic and environmental objectives, GOK has requested IDA
assistance in a social forestry project. This report is based on the



-2-
findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited India in
January/February 1984, comprised of 0. Baykal, B. Stier, L. Muller and M.
Crawford (IDA).
II. BACKGROUND
A. Forestry in india
2.01    India has a population of some 722 M with a growth rate of about
2% per annum. Per capita income is US$240 (1980) per annum and is
increasing at an annual rate of about 1.4%. Seventy per cent of the
population is engaged in agriculture which accounts for about 45Z of GNP.
Iudia's forest reserve land covers 23Z of total land area or about 75 N
ha, but only about 50% of this designated land is tree covered.
2.02    One of the serious problems facing India today is the degradation
and depletion of its forests which is causing considerable harm to the
environment. In some cases the damage has been so severe that there is
little hope of natural restoration. Forests have been diminished through
uncontrolled lopping and felling of trees for fuel and fodder. Similarly,
overgrazing has taken its toll on young trees and grasslands, further
removing the groundcover necessary to hold and replenish the topsoil.
2.03    Demands for fuelvood, fodder and green manure will increase over
the next decades as the population continues to grow. Pressures on exist-
ing farmland and the tendency to encroach on forest areas will also rise.
Unless the decline in forests and other tree resources is stemmed, the
shortage of fuelvood and tree products will become increasingly critical.
2.04    A study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research
estimated total fuelwood consumption in 1978/79 at 95 M tons (125 M a ) or
62 M tons of coal replacement equivalent. Of this, one third was in the
form of logs, the rest in twigs and branches. In addition, 71 M tons of
cowdung were burnt (22 M tons coal replacement equivalent). F r
industrial 3wood, the demand has been estimated at about 27 K m in 1980
and 65 M m  in 2q00.  For fuelvood, the estimated demand in the year 2000
would be 200 M m without considering any substitution of dung with fuel-
wood.   If 50X of the energy consumed by dung burning wer 5 substituted by
fuelvood the total fuelwood demand would be about 230 M m . The total
annyal wood demand for the year 2000 is therefore likely to be nearly 300
M m , equivalent to some 20-30 N ha of mature plantation.
2.05   The Government of India (GOI) realizes that a strong planting
program would not only generate resources and protect the environment but,
importantly, would provide a source of income to beneficiaries, including
small farmers and tribals. Over the years, the Government has taken an
increasingly active role in forestry. Recently, two major developments



-3-
have taken place. First, GOI has founded Forest Development Corporations
aimed at expanding the funding available for forest development and plan-
tation. Second, it has expressed a greater interest in social forestry.
jJ To meet future fuelvood needs, a Fuelwood Commission Report of 1980
recommended a five fold increase in the current level of social forestry
planting. This has been reflected in the country's Fifth (1974-79) and
Sixth (1980-85) Plans which devoted, respectively, 49% and 78% of forestry
allocations to social forestry. The rural afforestation program has
included a number of schemes to assist State Governments. The "Social
Forestry/Rural Fuelvood Plantations" program, which has a Sixth Five Year
Plan allocation of Rs 1,000 M, provides for 50% GOI financing of planta-
tion costs, emphasizing plantations in districts with severe fuelvood
shortages. Similar assistance is also provided by GOI for social forestry
plantations established under the National Rural Employment Program, the
Minimum Needs Program and the Drought Prone Area Program. As for external
financial assistance, the total Government project investments now being
contemplated amount to Rs 6,000 M over a period of five years, and would
result in an estimated 2 M ha afforestation by the late 1980s.iV
2.06    GOI has recognized that the protection-oriented approach to
forestry to date has been inadequate to achieve the desired growth of its
forest resources. In order to provide special encouragement to social
forestry and involve the population more closely in forestry development,
the National Commission on Agriculture (1976) recommended that each State
Forest Department establish a special wing to develop social forestry.
It is expected that some 1.93 M ha of social forestry plantations would be
established under the auspices of these newly created wings by the end of
1988, representing a total government investment of Rs. 5950 M (US$540 M).
2.07    Of the present India-wide tree planting of some 2 billion seed-
lings annually, about 50% are planted through farm forestry (where seed-
lings are planted by farmers on their own property). The rest are planted
by the forest departments in commercial plantations (30%) and social
forestry plantations (20%). Government plantation establishment costs on
Forest Department administered forest land are about five times higher
than those of farmers planting on their own land.
jJ Planting of trees on farmland, wastelands, and other areas outside
Government owned forest reserves.
2/ Besides the Bank-financed efforts described in paragraphs 2.09-2.10,
the states of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra (USAID-assisted), Tamil
Nadu and Orissa (SIDA), and Andhra Pradesh (CIDA) are now implementing
projects. The Government intends to bring all remaining states under
external assistance in the future.



-4-
B. The Bank's Involvement in Indian Forestry
2.08    A 1978 Bank forestry sector report, "India Forestry Prospects",
summarized India's needs as follows:
"India has two major tasks to accomplish over the next quarter of
a century: first, to develop its farm forestry program to supply
fuelwood, fodder and farm timber in rural areas, and second, to
improve the productivity of its forests to supply the growing
needs of the domestic wood products industry (particularly pulp
and paper). Encompassing both priorities is the vital role
environmental forestry plays in soil and water conservation; this
will need much more investment than it has been given in the
past."
2.09    The Bank has financed five social forestry projects in India, one
of which includes two states: Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry (Cr. 925-IN
of June 1978) for US$23 M; Gujarat Community Forestry (Cr. 961-IN of April
1980) for US$37 M; West Bengal Social Forestry (Cr. 1178-IN of February
1982) for US$29 M; Jammu & Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry (Cr.
1276-IN of September 1982) for US$33 M; and Karnataka Social Forestry (Cr.
1432-TN of February 1984) for US$27 M. The recent mid-term reviews of the
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat Social Forestry projects, and supervision of the
social forestry projects generally, have shown good overall progress in
implementation.
2.10    The relative emphasis on different types of plantation components
has changed in Bank-financed social forestry (see Annex 2), as vell as
social forestry generally in India. Farm forestry has grown; besides
being less expensive than planting on government land, it yields higher
and more direct benefits to farmers, since farmers take all
produce/revenues (Government need not recover costs of plantation estab-
lishment and maintenance). Furthermore, farm forestry components have
far exceeded appraisal targets. To support farm forestry activities,
social forestry projects have built in, or later added, provisions for a
study of the supply and demand for wood and wood products, recognizing
that planting strategies will have to adjust to future demand and prices,
for instance to a situation where the (presently lucrative) pole market
has become more balanced. The projects also provide for improved exten-
sion, linked nov to the Training and Visit System of agricultural exten-
sion where it exists, in order to introduce new techniques and help
farmers upgrade their current agroforestry practices.
2.11    As for social forestry components other than farm forestry,
road/canal side plantations, rehabilitation of degraded forests and com-
munity forests are generally progressing well. Components involving new
approaches, for instance sand dune fixation and wetland/alkali land plant-
ing, have taken a little longer to develop. The self-help village woodlot



-5-
schemes in some projects represent one type of component where results
have lagged behind expectations. One cause is the limited ability of
village administrations to raise funds for development works. Farmers
have exhibited increasing interest in taking greater responsibility for
nursery operations and some states are already implementing small nursery
schemes, for instance the arrangement by the Forest Department in Gujarat
to buy back seedlings produced in small "kissan" nurseries.
2.12    Two new, national level projects are currently under preparation,
one on National Social Forestry, designed to introduce afforestation
programs in states not yet participating in substantial social forestry
programs, and to strengthen the administration and support by GOI for
social forestry. It also includes states with follow-on social forestry
programs. The other national level effort is the Forestry Education,
Training and Research project, designed to improve forestry research and
to make professional education and inservice training more responsive to
current forestry needs. These projects are consistent with the Government
of India's recently announced intentions to increase social forestry
emphasis and expenditures from the 1980-81 level of about 2.1% of the
total budget, to a new level of at least 5Z.
C. AMriculture and Forestry in Kerala
ARzriculture
2.13    Kerala, in Southern India, is one of the country's smallest
States.  It has 14 administrative districts (see Map), aud covers 38,663
km of: lowlands, characterized by flat, sandy tracts and backwaters;
midlands, comprising small hills and valleys with a variety of streams and
rivers; and highlands, containing heavily forested mountains. The state
generally enjoys good sunlight, fertile soils, a plentiful network of
water resources, and good rainfall from both the May-August southwest and
September-October northeast monsoons.
2.14    The climate in Kerala is sub-tropical, with a temperature range
of 20-350 C year round. The State encompasses seven climatic zones
forestry-wise: (a) the wide coastal belt, where coconut predominates; (b)
backwater areas, which have been in part reclaimed and planted with
coconut or other crops; (c) southern midlands, which feature rubber,
coconut and tapioca as major crops; {d) southern highlands, where some
forest land is newly settled (in part encroached) and devoted largely to
annual crops; (e) northern highlands, where tree crop farming is impor-
tant; (f) lateritic soil areas in the North, which support extensive
farming and cashew plantation; and (g) mid-west rain shadow area. The
existing agroforestry orientation in Kerala is strong; besides commer-
cially grown tree crops such as coconut and rubber, other trees complement
important agricultural crops -- for instance, those which provide support
for pepper vines or shade for cocoa, cardamom and coffee. In addition,



-6-
private farmers grow trees like Ailanthus for sale to matchbox/splint and
packing case manufacturers, Casuarina for sale as poles, and other species
for fuelwood and timber production.
Current Forest Conditions
2.15    Natural and plantation (e.g., teak) forests cover 11,239 km2, or
29Z of the state's land according to official figures. j/ The forest types
can broadly be grouped as tropical evergreen or rain forests; mixed
deciduous or monsoon forests; and subtropical or temperate evergreen
forests.
2.16    Working plans cover almost all of Kerala's reserved forests.
Evergreen forest is managed under a selection system, and deciduous and
mixed deciduous under clearfelling systems followed by artificial
regeneration. As a result, 146,900 ha of manmade forest have been estab-
lished, comprising 52% teak, 21Z eucalyptus, 16% softwoods, and 11% mis-
cellaneous species.
2.17    In the available natural, manmade and vested (nationalized),
forests, growing stock comprises 167 N m3 of wood, with the following
anticipated utilization: 53% fuelwood, 11% plywood, 2Z matchwood, 2%
pulpwood and 32X other industrial wood.  Annual recorded production from
these forests includes 0.5 M m timber, 0.3 M m' fuelwood, and 1.3 M
poles.
Forests in the State Economy
2.18       The share of value added by forestry and logging in Kerala's
Net Domestic Product is estimated at about 2%, or about Rs. 0.8 B in
1981-82.   The sector has shown no growth in volume terms during the 19708
and to date. Kerala also has an important forest based industrial sector
for which only partial data is available. There are three pulp and paper
mills with a combined input capacity of some 500,000 tpa of wood and
bamboos. The newest of these factories, with an input capacity of 250,000
tpa of wood has just started production. It is one of Indiass largest
newsprint mills, which with an annual output capacity of 80,000 tons will
add about 50% to India's existing newsprint capacity, helping substitute
for the half of newsprint volume now imported. It is roughly estimated
that there are some 1000 savmills, 350 plywood and veneer mills, more than
100 matchbox factories and numerous furniture workshops and other small
jj As paragraphs 2.22-2.24 elaborate further, a good deal of forest land
has been lost or is unavailable for plantation. It is estimated that
20-25% of forest land has been converted to other land use during the
last 40 year period.



-7-
scale wood industries. It is estimated that vood-based industries account
for 0.5Z of value added in Kerala's Net Domestic Product, corresponding to
some Rs. 0.2 B in 1981-82. Employment in the forestry sector is estimated
at about 55,000 and in identifiable forest based industries at some 25,000
workers, in total less than two per cent of the labor force.
2 -9    Aside from employment by commercial enterprises, wood production
provides an important source of income to those farmers vho grow trees
privately (often on waste land or along field boundaries on the holdings)
.nd sell the wood for poles, timber, matchboxes, etc. Interest in private
planting has been running high as evidenced by the ability of a small
social forestry organization to distribute a large number of seedlings
to private farmers already (paragraph 2.32). Trees grown for cash also
provide an important benefit for the farmers because of the branches,
twigs and other secondary materials which can be used for fuelwood.
2.20    According to the National Council of Applied Economic Research,
non-commercial fuels (logs, twigs, wood shavings, sawdust, charcoal and
crop wastes) form the largest part of Kerala's total fuel consumption. In
rural areas, twigs and logs comprise the bulk of total consumption (about,
the 42% and 17% respectively), while agricultural wastes account for about
30%. Rural commercial fuels include kerosene, electricity and LPG (about
7%, 3% and .5% respectively). The most striking difference in total urban
consumption is the 56% share comprised by logs, with predictably lesser
quantities of twigs (7%) and crop wastes (7U) than in rural areas. Com-
mercial fuels account for more than twice the consumption in urban as in
rural areas, including kerosene (6%), LPG (7U), and electricity (9%).
Dung cake is used almost not at all in the state.
2.21    However, the supply of firewood has become constrained (as
detailed in the next section), and the increasing difficulty in satisfying
local demand for firewood - as well as other wood products such as timber
and poles - is reflected in their recent rapid price increases. Moreover,
the market for wood does not fully represent the current situation, since
non-commercial consumption constitutes an important factor in wood use.
The poor have been particularly affected in increased difficulty in
obtaining fuelwood, since they traditionally collect it in the vicinity of
their villages and cannot afford to pay market prices for fuelwood or
substitutes. It is estimated that the rural poor, with a per capita
income of less than US$100, collect almost 90% of their firewood needs and
purchase only 10%. This situation is likely to continue, because there
are few industrial or other non-agricultural sources of employment; there-
fore the poor living in rural areas (and 71% of the total population is
rural) will continue to depend on fuelwood. The provision of additional
fuelwood could help bridge a consumption gap which otherwise promises to
widen increasingly, and the poor would benefit in particular. In addi-
tion, farmers' sale of surplus fuelwood, poles and timber from their trees
would provide them with an additional source of income.



-8-
Factors in Decline of Forests
2.22    Forested areas available for exploitation have declined for
several reasons, and have not been replanted at an adequate rate. First,
population pressures have led to deforestation. Landholdings tend to be
quite small (90% of them are under 1 ha), and Kerala has the highest
population density in India. Ij However natural sources of fuel, such as
private trees and agricultural waste, have not increased at the same rate
as population. These factors have precipitated an increased rate of
illegal lopping and felling of trees on forest reserves. For the time
being, there is little hope of this situation rectifying itself as rural
population pressures continue.
2.23    Second, formerly productive forest land has been utilized for
other purposes. Individual conversion of forests to farmland, often
through illegal encroachment, has been taking a steady toll. In additiou,
under "Grow More Food" and other government schemes, large tracts of
forest land were taken over. Hydroelectric and irrigation works have
caused some forest areas to be submerged, and others to be restricted as
protected catchment land. Finally, about 18% of forests are not available
for production of fuelvood and other wood products because they have been
converted to wildlife sanctuaries, protected areas and national parks.
2.24    Third, the growing stock available for production annually will
decrease further, since Government recently decided as an environmental
measure to stop clearfelling operations. The implications in the long run
are even larger since this measure will reduce the land available for
plantation establishment.
2.25    Livestock have posed less of a problem to plantatiou protection
than in other states. In densely populated, intensively cultivated areas,
animals tend to be tied and stall-fed. Still, there are areas where
livestock browsing has hurt trees, especially in the first years of
growth.
2.26    In the long run, the Kerala Government will have to deal with
conservation of forest resources in the broader context of alleviating
population pressures and promoting alternative sources of employment to
agriculture. At this time, however, the most imediate aid to forests
will come through more effective forest policy, better utilization of
sJ Kerala's population density runs as high as 1,248 per km2 in the
coastal district of Alleppy; it becomes difficult in such highly
populated areas to distinguish between "densely settled rural' versus
"urban" areas.



-9-
existing and new goverrment plantations, and expanded area for tree plan-
tation achieved principally through farm forestry.
D. Forest Policy and Organization in Kerala
Forest Policv
2.27    In the areas which eventually became Kerala in 1952 (Travancore,
Cochin and parts of the old Madras State) forests vere protected by strict
laws, with a limited quantity of teak, rosevood and ebony being exported.
In recent decades, the kind of deforestation described in the previous
section began to increase. Realizing in recent years the danger of forest
degradation, GOK has devoted increasing funds to social forestry and has
established regulations for protection. Under the Fourth Plan (1969-74)
GOK's social forestry expenditure was Rs 353,000; under the Fifth Plan
(1974-79), Rs 4,510,000, and under the current Sixth Plan (1980-85) Rs
19,750,000. Still, the proportion of the total state public sector
allocation devoted to forestry in the Sixth Plan was ouly 1.21%. Jj
2.28    GOK has reduced the area available for clearfelling every year, in
an attempt to protect existing forests and wildlife. But there is no
systematic way of determining the balance between production and protec-
tion interests, with the result that imbalances could easily occur among
them. GOK needs to establish a planning capacity in the Forest Department
capable of designing and implementing resource studies, assessing market
demand, and integrating the resultant production policy with the protec-
tion policy.
Forest Organization
2.29    One official, the Minister of Agriculture and Forests (MAP)
administers both the agriculture and forestry sectors. Recently, the
positions of Secretary for Forests and the Agriculture Production Commis-
sioner were merged, which means that agriculture and forestry activities
should become more closely integrated and coordinated.
2.30    The Forest Department has four Chief Conservators of Forests (CCF)
and one Additional Chief Conservator, sj each of whom is directly respon-
sible to the Secretary/Forests. Traditionally, the CCFs and ACCF have
been allocated some staff and resources for their exclusive use, but have
J/ "Plan Development Programs in Forestry Sector, 1951-85", Government of
India, Ministry of Agriculture; September 1981.
jJ These include the CCF/Development, CCF/Social Forestry,
CCF/Administration, CCF/Vigilance and ACCF/Wildlife.



-10-
had to share many others including personnel, administration, statistical
and even some field staff. Two Forestry Training Schools have provided a
basic training course for Foresters and Rangers.
2.31    In 1982, GOK initiated a separate social forestry program in the
Forest Department. On May 26, 1983, GOK issued a government order sanc-
tioning 20 additional staff for social forestry, and stating that these
plus the 74 existing staff sanctioned would vork solely for the newly
established Social Forestry Wing (SFW).   At appraisal, a small head-
quarters staff and very limited field staff occupied Social Forestry staff
positions; all staff included, the total numbers of sanctioned/filled
positions included: 32/30 in headquarters, 513 in Extension, and 134/99
Field Staff (see Organizational Chart 1).
2.32    The Social Forestry Wing has already distributed a large number of
seedlings and carried out plantations in its first two yearsa Funding for
social forestry has mainly been provided by two Centrally Sponsored
schemes, the National Rural Employment Program and the Rural Fuelwood
Scheme. In 1982 and 1983, SFW distributed 103 M seedlings for farm
forestry, and planted 4,418 ha of land (degraded forests, block planta-
tions, strips plantations and plots in tribal areas).
2.33    The results have indicated institutional weaknesses.  Because the
magnitude of seedling distribution to farmers exceeded the level of assis-
tance which Forestry extension could provide on how to care for seedlings,
survival rates have been low (36% according to a Forest Department sur-
vey), and wastage has occurred. This has stemmed from a variety of fac-
tors, such as poor nursery techniques, and improper care and wrong place-
ment of seedlings. As for government plantations, survival rates have
been good, but aftercare has been inadequate due to limited funds.
Protection against damage and livestock has been inadequate in some
instances. All this indicates that the Social Forestry Wing has been
operating at a level beyond its organizational capacity, in terms of
manpower and other resources, as well as in terms of know-how in nursery
operations and support from research and extension.
2.34    Regarding structure down to the village level, Forest Department
organization corresponds fairly closely to general State organization.
The Social Forestry Wing now breaks its operations into 14 districts,
comparable to the State's 14 administrative Revenue Districts. For local
government administration, villages are grouped under panchayats, which
undertake a wide variety of both compulsory and discretionary duties.
Although they have yet to become very involved in forestry activities,
panchayats have helped the Social Forestry Wing with the distribution of
seedlings.
2.35    Voluntary organizations are active in Kerala, consistent with the
high level of social welfare interest in the state. Many of them have



-l1-
collaborated with the Social Forestry Wing in the distribution of seed-
lings and extension of advice on planting to farmers. Such organizations
include: schools and colleges, especially those with forestry clubs;
libraries; sports clubs; student organizations such as the National Serv-
ice Scheme and National Cadet Corps; KANFED, a program for increasing
literacy; Sastra Sahitya Parishath, a group promoting science and litera-
ture; service clubs; and religious organizations.
2.36    In 1981, the state adopted the training and visit (T&V) system of
agricultural extension, which provides for extension worker visits to
farmers on a regular fortnightly basis. Although the current system of
agricultural extension has dealt primarily with recommendations and assis-
tance for crops, it could deal satisfactorily with dissemination of
forestry information, which tends to be relatively uncomplicated.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Overview
3.01    The project would cover the development of social forestry
throughout the state of Kerala, and would have the following objectives:
- to increase farmers' incomes and self-sufficiency in wood
products through their plantation of trees, making special
efforts to involve tribal people;
- to increase production of fuelwood, small timber and poles by
establishing plantations on available government lands; along
railroads, canal banks, roadsides and coastal belts; and on the
grounds of educational and other institutions;
- to reduce the effects of water and wind erosion, and lessen
pressure on existing forests;
- to strengthen the existing Social Forestry Wing of the Forest
Department and related institutions, and their capability to
conduct a statewide social forestry program which would yield
benefits in the longterm.
B. Detailed Features
3.02    The project would consist of the following components:
A. Plantation, over six years, of approximately 85,000 ha, including:



-12-
1. Farm forestry through distribution of about 340M seedlings
(the plantation equivalent of about 69,000 ha) to private
farmers and institutions; j1
2. Block plantations on government land totalling 12,000 ha, on
degraded natural forest reserves, failed teak plantations
and unproductive grasslands;
3. Strip plantations totalling 2,000 ha, along canal banks,
railroads, roadsides and coastal belts; and
4. Special plantation schemes for tribal people, totalling some
2,100 ha;
B. Establishment/improvement of small family operated nurseries and
larger nurseries serving departmental plantations;
C. An intensive program of extension and publicity, strengthening
the linkages between social forestry and agricultural extension;
D. Training for Social Forestry Wing staff, voluntary and other
interested organizations, and farmers; strengthening of selected
institutions for social forestry training;
E. Research activities including: development of recommendations
to be transmitted to farmers by extension, and evaluation of
planting programs; carrying out of forestry-related research
studies and a wood supply and demand study; and
F. Institutional development of the Social Forestry Wing, in addition
to the strengthening of extension and training mentioned above;
improving the capability of small farmers and schools to handle
nursery work; and increasing the role of voluntary organizations
and rural comunities in social forestry. This component is
covered in Section IV of this report on "Organization and Manage-
ment. "
G. Monitoring and Evaluation of the project, to be carried out in
accordance with guidelines for Monitoring and Evaluation developed
by GOI and IDA.
jj As table 6.01 shows, trees planted individually in farm forestry have
higher yields; hence, the "yield" equivalent of seedlings distributed
would be about 129,000 ha.



-13-
Plantation Program
3.03    The plantation program would have the following phasing, with farm
forestry shown in hectare equivalents:
Table 3.03: PHASING OF PLANTATION PROGRAM
Plantation          84/85-   85/86-    86/87-   87/88-   88/89-   89/90-
Categorv           Year 1   Year 2    Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Total
A-Farm forestry      5,100    8,100    10,200   12,200   15,400   18,200   69,200
B-Plantations on
government land
Large blocks      600    1,200      1,800    2,200    2,600    2,600   11,000
Small blocks       50       100       150       200      250      250    1,000
Strip plantations  50       100       200       400      500      750    2,000
Tribal-fuelvood   100       200       300       400      500      500    2,000
Tribal-medicinal    5        10        15        20       25        25      100
Annual totals        5,905    9,710    12,665   15,420   19,275   22,325   85,300
The above table represents the best estimate of a balanced program, given
existing information on social forestry. The project would maintain
flexibility so that, as SFW gains more experience and studies more inten-
sively the supply and demand for wood, the proportion of planting could be
shifted among the above plantation categories. SFW, GOI and Bank staff
would assess whether to do so during a mid-term review to be conducted
after completion of the third year's planting (paragraph 4.06), or during
the course of supervision missions should the situation warrant. Annex 1
shows the types of trees to be planted, their potential utilization, and
their distribution by Government plantation model and agroclimatic zone.
In addition to producing fuelwood, trees are currently sold by farmers for
various purposes, for instance: Ailanthus for production of matchbox/
splint and packing cases; Casuarina for fuelwood and poles; and Eucalyptus
for pulpwood. Plantation levels have been matched to levels of institu-
tional support in social forestry; GOK would inform IDA of plans to add
any social forestry plantation above the levels outlined at appraisal
(Agreed Minutes).
3.04    Farm Forestrv  (69,200 ha equivalent representing 81Z of total
tree planting program). Farm forestry would comprise by far the largest
part of the program, because it yields the highest benefits to the
farmers, and yet costs the least (about one fifth the cost per hectare
of plantation of government land). It also gives the farmer greater
control over choice of species/product and product utilization. The only
direct costs for farm forestry would be seedling production, which are
noted in paragraph 3.15 under "Nurseries".



-14-
3.05    The Social Forestry Wing (SFW) would distribute approximately 340
M seedlings over a six year period to all sizes of farmers and, to a
limited extent, to private institutions. The component would aim at broad
participation, particularly among small farmers who previously lacked
information and access to tree planting. A large network of small family-
and school-operated nurseries (see paragraphs 3.15-3.17) would facilitate
this effort.
3.06    Farm forestry recommendations would be geared to the existing
agricultural situation, taking into account the intensive cultivation of
crops and tree crops in many areas. Species selection and placement would
complement individual cultivation patterns. SFW extension efforts to
farmers would be reinforced by agricultural extension, as described in
paragraph 3.22.
3.07    A limited number of seedlings -- 3,500 Casuarina and 500 for other
species - would be distributed to each farmer free of charge. These
numbers are based on the plantation-area equivalent for free distribution
which has been established by GOI and the Bank in previous social forestry
projects. jI For numbers above those levels, SFW would assess a charge
which would recover direct costs of production. Assurances on these
distribution policies were obtained during negotiations, as were assuran-
ces that Forest Department nurseries shall maintain registers on the
number of seedlings distributed to each family, and that the Social
Forestry Wing shall conduct field reviews during each planting season to
ascertain that wastage of seedlings is being minimized.
3.08    Block Plantations on Government Land (12,000 ha representing 14%
of total planting program; 11,000 ha would be in large blocks, and another
1,000 ha would be in small blocks of land belonging to various state
government institutions). Although more costly to establish and maintain
than farm forestry, block plantations and planting along
canal/railway/roadside/ coastal strips are economically justified, as they
produce additional fuelvood and poles on otherwise unproductive land,
generate considerable employment, and help conserve land. The fuelwood
would be distributed with a view to improving its access to the poorer
population.
/  Calculations indicate a much larger per capita distribution for
Casuarina because it would be planted on wastelands where few crops
besides scattered (often degraded) cashew trees exist; hence Casuarina
could be planted in block areas and with much denser spacing than
other species. Thus, on a hectare basis, the planting of Casuarina
and other species would be roughly equivalent using the above free
distribution numbers.



-15-
3.09    SFW would establish plantations, mainly for fuelvood production
and, to a limited extent, for poles for house construction. Products
would not include pulpwood, since another division of the Forest Depart-
ment already covers that activity. SFW staff would supervise the plant-
ing, maintenance, felling and distribution of products from block planta-
tions, employing labor from nearby panchayats. After establishment,
adjacent villagers would be allowed to cut grass for fodder and to collect
fallen twigs, under SFW supervision. Forest Assistants and daily wage
laborers would be employed to help protect these plantations against
illicit use, fire and other hazards.
3.10    The direct baseline costs for block plantations would be:  seed-
ling production, noted in paragraph 3.19 under "Nurseries"; large block
plantation establishment and maintenance, US$ 6.4 M; and small block
plantation establishment and maintenance, US$ 0.45 M (detailed in Annex 3,
Table 3). GOK would recover direct costs of plantation after felling,
through selling produce as described in para 6.06. SFW would investigate
the relative costs of various types of fencing for these and strip planta-
tions, using the lowest cost method which suffices for protection, includ-
ing no fencing when that is possible.
3.11    Strip Plantations (2,000 ha representing 22 of total planting
program). Along coastal, railway, roadside and canal strips, SFW would
establish plantations, emphasizing fuelwood production. Because the cost
of previous roadside plantations was higher than other strip plantations,
it was agreed at Negotiations that roadside strip plantations would be
included so long as they use the same models and have the same economic
costs as other strip plantations SFW supervision and provisions for vil-
lager collection of by-products would be the same as under block planta-
tions (paragraph 3.10). Establishment and maintenance of the strip plan-
tations would account for US$0.8 M of direct baseline costs in the project
(detailed in Annex 3, Table 3).
3.12    In all areas, SFW staff would make a prior assessment of current
land use, in order to design strip plantations which would minimize con-
flicts with local practices (e.g., open grazing land, points requiring
passage from one area to another, spaces used for recreation or rites,
etc.).
3.13    Involvement of Tribals  (2,100 ha representing 3% of total plant-
ing program; this would include plantation of 2,000 ha for fuelvood, and
establishment of a special medicinal plants pilot program on another 100
ha of forest land, with plants placed under existing trees). Consistent
with GOK policy of extending special assistance, SFW would involve tribals
in four types of activities. First, it would employ tribals to work on
Government plantations, attempting over time to improve tribals'
agroforestry skills and transfer increasing responsibilities to them.



-16-
Second, it would establish plantations to produce fuelvood adjacent to
tribal communities. All fuelwood and other tree products raised would go
to these communities, including the landless. The establishment and
cultivation techniques would be the same as those used for EucalvDtus
Rrandis on block plantations. Third, SFW would set up a limited number of
small nurseries run by tribals, especially family members who stay at
home. Tribal plantation establishment and maintenance costs would amount
to US$ 0.8 M of baseline costs (detailed in Annex 3).
3.14    Fourth, there would be a pilot program for cultivation of
medicinal plants on 100 ha of forest land, designed in part to foster
forest protection, and to further -he economic development of the tribal
people. Since techniques in this area are not well developed and remain
to be tested, these activities would be kept on a pilot scale. There is a
large number of small bushy plants, flowers and tubers which tribal
populations traditionally gather from forests, and use or sell locally
for medicinal purposes. Kerala law has granted exclusive rights to
tribals to deal with these plants. A majority of the medicinal plants
grow in forests, which is how the Forest Department/Social Forestry Wing
became involved. Recently, a branch of the Forest Research Institute at
Trichur has been carrying out studies on indigenous medicinal plants. It
reports that, besides local usage of these plants, pharmaceutical com-
panies have generated a growing demand for medicinal plant extracts.
Under the project, SFW would help tribals to cultivate and market those
plants, and to take over increasing responsibility for running the opera-
tion. The pilot medicinal scheme would cost US$0.1 N in baseline costs
for establishment of plots (detailed in Annex 3).
Nurseries and Seedling Distribution
3.15    The project would place special emphasis on the establishment/
improvement of a large number of small nurseries operated on family hold-
ings and to a limited extent on school grounds, providing an average of
80,000-110,000 seedlings per annrm on about one tenth of a hectare of
land, and capable of being handled by a landholder and two family members.
These small nurseries would have several advantages: easier access to
farmers, and hence reduced seedling distribution costs; source of income
for farm families employed to operate them; gradually reduced nursery
costs to SFW as farmers take increasing responsibility; and use as natural
points for extension of recommendations to farmers. Already SFW has been
operating about 100 such small nurseries. In the first year of the
project 472 small nurseries are planned, increasing to 1,055 by the fifth
year. The baseline costs of nursery preparation, cultivation and dis-
tribution of seedlings for farm forestry would amount to US$ 10.9 N as
detailed in Annex 3, Table 3. SFW would supply small nurseries with seed,
polyethelene bags, and other materials.



-17-
3.16    The small nurseries scheme would provide nursery operators and
their family members assisting in *he nursery with new skills. It might
be that some farmers, as in other states, would be interested to continue
with nursery activities and to take increasing responsibilities. Thusfar,
SFW has not focussed on developing individual longerterm nurseries for
several reasons: by rotating small nursery sites, it feels that a larger
number of farmers have access to seedling distribution; small farmers may
be unwilling to use their land for nurseries if other more attractive
agricultural alternatives present themselves; and small farmers do not yet
exhibit skills for growing good quality seedlings. However, given the
promising experience with small nurseries in social forestry schemes
elsewhere in India (paragraph 2.11), an expanded role for small farmers in
Kerala social forestry nurseries has been encouraged. The project
provides for close supervision of small nurseries by Foresters (paragraph
4.04), so nursery development could be guided closely and the quality of
seedlings monitored carefully.
3.17    At discussions during negotiations, it was decided that no firm
scheme for privatization of small nurseries could be drawn up for Kerala
until the Social Forestry Wing acquires more experience in small nursery
operations, and until the reaction of farmers has been demonstrated. But
in order to ensure that nursery operations would be reassessed on a con-
tinuing basis and the role of farmers in nursery operations adjusted as
suitable, SFW would conduct a regular review. It was agreed at nego-
tiations that, along with GOI, GOK would review the small nurseries scheme
every August in order to assess progress and formulate plans for its
development. Upon completion of each review, GOK would promptly submit a
report to the Association on the findings and conclusions of its review.
In turn, each IDA supervision mission would devote special attention to
the development of small nurseries and pricing matters.
3.18    The selection of nursery operators would need careful management.
Candidates would be screened according to well-publicized and enforced
criteria in order to avoid charges of favoritism to certain groups. SNW
would issues guidelines on selection criteria, including farm-type, access
to water, and farmer/school motivation. SFW would provide training for
small nursery operators and other persons employed to assist them
(paragraph 3.27).j SFW trainers would run two day courses, covering the
five small nurseries supervioed by a given forester (see Project File,
Item 7 for details). Finally, SFW would maintain good communication with
the rural community on the small nurseries scheme, involving local
organizations in its support.
1/ It is estimated that an average of three persons would be employed at
each small nursery, for a duration matching the growing season of
species involved, ranging from 6-9 months per annum.



-18-
3.19    SFW would establish larger departmental nurseries whenever the
scale of operations on governmental lands warranted. It is estimated that
SFW would support fifty such larger nurseries. These nurseries would
produce a substantial number of seedlings for the plantations on govern-
ment land, and would also produce seedlings for distribution to farmers.
As for the small nurseries, they might also produce seedlings for planta-
tion on government land, even though their emphasis would be on distribu-
tion to farmers.
3.20    Techniques in both small and large nurseries need improvement,
in particular the quality of seedling production and handling, especially
during storage and transport (see Project File, Item 4 for details). SFW
training for small nursery employees and for foresters supervising all
sizes of nurseries would include instruction on nursery techniques. SFW
would explore the use of "basketing" techniques for seedlings and other
innovations to make nurseries more efficient and economical. The total
baseline costs of preparing nurseries, and cultivating and distributing
seedlings for departmental plantations would come to US$ 3.4 M, as shown
in Annex 3, Table 3.
Plantation Maintenance and Protection
3.21    In the last two years, SFW did very little replanting of vacancies
aud weeding on its tree plantations due to limited funds. Protection,
especially against livestock, Was generally inadequate. Under the
project, maintenance and protection would be better supported through
intensified tield operations and engagement of workers (34 Forest Assis-
tants and a number of laborers) for general protection, fire watching and
fighting, etc. Maintenance costs are included under the above models for
departmental plantations and protection costs would come to US$ 0.3 M, as
shown in Annex 3, Table 3.
Extension and Publicity
3.22    Given the broad scope of the farm forestry component and the fact
that farmers would be responsible for the planting and care of about 340
million seedlings, extension and publicity activities would play an impor-
tant role in project success. On the field extension side, the Social
Forestry Wing would have a relatively small but trained cadre of Rangers
and Foresters to take responsibility for farm forestry promotion at key
distribution and meeting points. As for follow-up with individual
farmers, the existing agricultural extension system (with nearly 2,000
Vill.age Level Workers making fortnightly visits) would lend valuable
assistance in reinforcing messages on tree planting to farmers. SFW and
Agricultural Extension staff have agreed to coordinate social forestry
activities, in line with similar trends in other States with Bank-financed
projects in both social forestry and the Training and Visit system of



-19-
agricultural extension (see Project File, Item 6). After formulating
recommendations together with the Social Forestry Technical Committee, SFW
field-level supervisors would attend selected monthly meetings held by
agricultural extension subdivisional officers to plan recommendations for
the following month. Subsequently, at fortnightly training sessions, the
Village Level Extension Workers would learn and practice those recommenda-
tions and pass them on to farmers during their field visits.
3.23    Besides field extension, SFW would sponsor a variety of other
extension and publicity activities: (i) special promotion by voluntary
organizations, as has been practiced during the last two years; (ii)
SFW/Extension and Publicity Office (EPO) publication and distribution of
materials encouraging tree plantation, explaining how to select species,
and describing and illustrating techniques for planting and care; (iii)
SFW/EPO announcements and information carried by radio, newspapers and
other news media; (iv) SFW/EPO talks or demonstrations at public gather-
ings and at arranged meetings in central locations such as local schools;
(v) organization of farmer/community rallies and meetings, or participa-
tion in other gatherings such as Panchayat meetings or fairs; and (vi)
tours by publicity vans. The high literacy rate in Kerala should prove an
advantage in extension.z
3.24    The project provides for consultant assistance to help prepare an
information program and to advise on these various forms of publicity.
The training component would support the development of publicity and
training materials (paragraph 3.29). Because the project would avoid
building a large forestry field staff for extension, the costs of exten-
sion would be lower than in previous Bank-financed social forestry
projects. Total extension baseline costs would come to US$ 0.3M, as
outlined in Annex 3, Table 5 and would cover mainly publicity materials,
vehicles, equipment and incremental staff salaries.
Training
3.25    Besides improving staff skills, the project would permauently
increase the capacity of the Forestry Training Schools and Social Forestry
Wing to handle the training program in social forestry (See Project File,
Item 7 for details). The project would furnish immediate orientation
training for staff in social forestry techniques and extension. Also, a
permanent training program in social forestry for staff, voluntary
organizations, farmers and other concerned parties would be developed.
Furthermore, the project provides other Forest Department branches with
replacement training for staff transferred into Social Forestry from those
branches. The total baseline costs for training would be US$ 2.5H, as
shown in Annex 3, Table 6. Training costs include mainly renovation and
equipping of the two Forestry Training Institutes which would be used for



-20-
social forestry training, salaries of incremental staff, consultant assis-
tance, replacement training for staff transferred into SFW from elsewhere
in the FD and study tours.
3.26   SFW has already taken the first step by putting its existing
Foresters through an initial one-week orientation. The remaining orienta-
tion courses to be furnished as snon as possible are: (i) intensive
training for senior managers, for Forestry School and other instructors,
and for field-level supervisors involved in formulating recommendations
for agricultural extension; (ii) selective technical upgrading of Rangers
and Foresters, improving their existing skills as well as teaching new
techniques; and (iii) basic one-month training for newly recruited
Foresters, with first priority for those outside recruits lacking forestry
background. The faculty of Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), who
handled the first orientation sessions, would prepare curricula and con-
duct this program of orientation; sessions would take place on the cam-
puses of the four KAU institutes, vhich have appropriate facilities.
3.27    The permanent training program would include five types of cour-
ses: (i) technical refresher courses, conducted on the basis of staff
needs and new techniques as they emerge; (ii) supplementary three-month
schooling for Foresters during slack field periods (eventually each
Forester would undergo a year's cumulative training, equal to standard
training now given Foresters); (iii) study tours (local and foreign) for
Social Forestry staff, including visits to social forestry programs in
other States, study tours abroad to sites of specific relevance for Kerala
social forestry, and participation in specialized social forestry courses
and seminars; (iv) specially designed sessions for voluntary groups,
monitoring and evaluation data gatherers, and other parties involved in
social forestry; and (v) farmer training, especially for those operating
family nurseries.
3.28    The Forestry Training Schools at Walayar and, especially, Arippa
possess minimal facilities and capacity at present to accommodate the
training program envisioned. The project would expand existing facilities
and staff over the next year, so that these schools can take on a large
proportion of training of field staff. Renovation of deteriorated build-
ings and provision of basic facilities is essential for the schools to
function effectively; lecture halls, staff quarters, dining/kitchen
facilities (Arippa) and a seminar room (Arippa) would be constructed
within the first year of the project (i.e., by July 1985) so that social
forestry training could begin there as scheduled in the second year.
Tender documents including detailed plans for the first year civil works
would be submitted for review by IDA staff in the New Delhi Office and
contracts are expected to be let by November 30, 1984.
3.29    An ACF would head the Training Office in Trivandrum Headquarters,
and would coordinate and evaluate the social forestry project activities



-21-
at the Forestry Training Schools, Kerala Agricultural University and other
participating institutions. Two rangers would assist in this work and
also help conduct certain training such as courses for operators of small
nurseries. The project would provide for consultant assistance in the
development of training, curricula and teaching materials (paragraph 5.01)
during the first three years of the project. Training, extension and
publicity materials would be prepared in tt  Headquarters, in collabora-
tion with the Extension and Publicity Office. One key publication would
be a Working Manual; a consultant would assist in preparation of and
ongoing additions to the Manual. The Manual would have a looseleaf form,
with sections produced on a continual basis according to priority need
for technical, extension and other information. It would comprise a main
text for staff training, in addition to serving as an operational handbook
for field staff.
Research and Studies
3.30    Research is critical to improving current practices, developing
new approaches to social forestry and assessing plantation results. The
CCF/Social Forestry would formulate the research plan, but he would need
to maintain close ties with the research establishment to help monitor
and upgrade the technical quality of trees being planted. For this pur-
pose, a Technical Committee has been formed, consisting of representatives
from Social Forestry, Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI),
Kerala Forestry Research Institute (KFRI), Kerala Agricultural University
and any other institution deemed necessary. During the first four years
of the project, consultant assistance would be provided to assist the
CCF/Social Forestry in formulating the research program, and in advising
the Technical Committee on subjects for discussion and possible research
studies. The baseline costs for research and studies in this project
would be USS 0.15M (see Annex 3, Table 7 for details) and would cover
mainly the wood supply and demand study and other studies, research
monitoring, and consultancy assistance.
3.31    The research progran would continue the ongoing assessment of
planting techniques, survival and growth rates, etc. The Technical Com-
mittee would help develop technical criteria to be used in studies con-
ducted by Social Forestry Monitoring and Evaluation staff. Consultant
assistance would be used to help analyze the results, drawing on the
Technical Committee members and staff of their institutions as
appropriate.
3.32    The program would also continue development of specific
well-tested recommendations to be disseminated by Social Forestry exten-
sion and by the Village Level Workers in agricultural extension. There
are certain basic recommendations which are ready to go to farmers now,
for instance points regarding correct planting of seedlings. Additional
points would come out of research monitoring of plantation results



-22-
(paragraph 3.30). However, technical information has yet to be improved
in several areas, especially those noted below.
3.33    To fill in these gaps, the program would develop and execute
specific research projects. Under the guidance of the CCFISocial
Forestry, the Technical Committee would identify study subjects and
prepare terms of reference for the projects. Recommended areas of
research include: Ci) genetic improvement of species currently grown;
(ii) tree management; (iii) species and provenance trials; (iv) nurs-
ery-related research on seed selection and treatment, type and size of
seedling containers, fertilizers, insecticides and fungicide applications,
watering frequency, and growth periods; (v) plantation establishment,
including planting time, watering and fertilizer application; and (vi)
underplanting and intercropping. The Technical Committee would review the
research proposals received from various institutions and individuals, and
would make recommendations to SFW every six months (in January and July)
regarding which proposals to fund and for how much. SFW would make the
final decisions on funding involved, executioner, and operational require-
ments, and then would sign letters-of-understanding with the individual or
institution conducting the study (see Project File Item 10 for sample
letter of understanding).
3.34    No reliable and comprehensive information exists on the supply and
consumption of wood and wood-based products in Kerala. To assure the
longterm marketability of wood products and secure a continued interest of
farmers in tree-planting, a comprehensive study of wood supply and demand
patterns is required early during project implementation. Terms of
reference for the study have been prepared (See Project File, Item 8) and
a preliminary study was submitted by GOK during negotiations. It was
agreed that GOK would complete and submit for IDA review the wood supply
and demand study by December 31, 1985.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01    The project would help strengthen the capacity of the Forest
Department's Social Forestry Wing (SFN) and related institutions to
administer the statewide program of social forestry over the longterm.
Institutional development would occur within SFW, in SFW's relationships
with agricultu-sl extension and research (as mentioned in preceding Sec-
tion III), in enhanced roles for small nursery operators, in the
capabilities of the Forestry Training Schools (as also noted in Section
III), and in the participation of voluntary organizations and the rural
community.
4.02    Strengthening of the SFW would consist of improved organization,
better trained staff, and necessary increases in staff and resources.
Given the focus on field operations in this project, it is considered



-23-
particularly important for field work that SFW have staff who are
exclusively devoted to social forestry and equipped with their own
vehicles, rather than having to share resources on an ad hoc basis with
other forestry operations as now happens. Field operations would be more
decentralized than is nov the case, with operations divided between a
Northern and a Southern Circle (See Organizational Charts 2 and 3). The
two Circles would contain, at full development, 14 districts (correspond-
ing to the 14 revenue districts) each headed by a Deputy/Assistant Conser-
vator managing farm forestry activities as well as departmental planta-
tions. The positions required to be sanctioned by negotiations were not
o.-'1y sanctioned, but all were filled except for the two posts of Regional
Conservators of Forest. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
posts of Regional Conservators of Forests would be filled by December 31,
1984; in addition it was agreed that the two Social Forestry Circles as
well as the following positions would be maintained: Conservator for
Training, Extension and Publicity, Conservator for Planning and Program-
ming, Deputy Conservator of Forests for Monitoring and Evaluation, Finance
Officer, and the 14 districts Deputy Conservators of Forests.
4.03    The prime lines of responsibility for execution of the
IDA-financed project would be as follows. The Secretary/Forests would
have overall responsibility. The Chief Conservator of Forests/Social
Forestry would have responsibility for activities of the Social Forestry
Wing, reporting directly to the Secretary/Forests. For field operations,
a Regional Conservator would head each of the two regional Social Forestry
Circles; each Regional Conservator would direct the Deputy Conservators of
Forests (DCFs) heading up the districts in his Circle. Since regular, in
depth supervision of Rangers and Foresters would be important, especially
for farm forestry, the Regional Conservators would ensure that DCFs and
Rangers spend a major portion of their time in visits to farmers, nur-
series, villages and voluntary organizations.
4.04    Farm forestry, at full operation, would be supported by about
1,055 family nurseries; one Forester would supervise every five nurseries,
and one Ranger would supervise every five Foresters. On the departmental
plantations side, the ratio of Rangers to Foresters would be similar to
that in farm forestry. IDA supervision missions would review staffing
levels to ascertain that the numbers of field staff are appropriate to
supervision required; according to the current proposal, total social
forestry Rangers and Foresters would comprise 30X of the total Forest
Department staff at that level.
4.05    In the headquarters of the Chief Conservator of Forests/Social
Forestry at Trivandrum, there would be four support divisions (besides
the CCF's personal staff): Training, Extension and Publicity; Planning and
Programming; Monitoring and Evaluation; and Finance (see Organizational
Chart 2).



-24-
4.06    A Monitoring and Evaluation Office (MEO) would be established,
to be supervised by the DCF for Monitoring and Evaluation. MEO would have
the following main duties and functions:
(a) to implement and operate a monitoring system in accordance
with the "Operational Guideline to the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion of Social Forestry in India" formulated by GOI and IDA;
(b) to establish, in cooperation with Planning and Programing,
clearly defined objectives and targets for program implemen-
tation against which progress could be monitored;
(c) to institute a system of regular reporting to the Government
of India which would permit progress in different States to
be reliably compared and permit aggregation for all India;
(d) to collect relevant information for evaluation through a
standard system of surveys and studies, and to analyze,
interpret and report the findings to management;
Ce) to plan and implement special studies on problems or issues
which are not covered by the routine sample surveys and
reports;
(f) to undertake, on an ad hoc basis, reviews and studies in
order to solve urgent problems for management.
In addition to the above activities, MEO would assist the CCF/Social
Forestry in conducting a Mid-term Review after the third year's planting
season, together with GOI and IDA. At negotiations, assurances were
obtaned .hat such a review would be completed by March 31, 1987, and
submitted to IDA for review.
4.07    The project would provide sufficient field staff to collect infor-
mation, and an adequate field staff for analysis, report writing etc.;
this staff would be built up during the course of the project, as MEO
capacity was established and the plantation program grew. Staffing would
be consistent with the "Guidelines for Social Forestry" mentioned in
paragraph 4.06. SFW would minimize its past practice of hiring university
students and other daily wage workers on a per study basis, since this
precludes building an experienced and professioaal monitoring and evalua-
tion staff. MEO would collaborate with the Training Office in designing
training courses for its field data gatherers and other staff (paragraph
3.27).
4.08    The Conservator for Training, Extension and Publicity and his ACF,
Extension and Publicity would be responsible for Social Forestry exten-
sion. Since the relationship with agricultural extension is important to



-25-
achieving farm forestry goals, the Conservator and ACF would meet at least
every three months with the head of Agricultural Extension and key senior
staff from SFW and Agricultural Extension involved in coordination between
the two institutions. Meetings between the Social Forestry Wing and
Agricultural Extension had already begun by the time of negotiations. The
Regional Conservators would ensure that the appropriate staff attend
Agricultural Extension's monthly meetings conducted at the sub-district
levels at which extension recommendations are formulated (especially
DCFs), and selected fortnightly training meetings at vhich Village Exten-
sion Workers are taught about recommendations to disseminate in their next
two week cycle of visits to farmers (especially Rangers, who would provide
appropriate technical input at these meetings on forestry recommenda-
tions).
4.09    The Training Coordinator in SFW Headquarters would guide social
forestry training activities in the Forestry Training Schools, Kerala
Agricultural University, and any other entities involved in
project-related training. Under the supervision of the CCF/SFW, the
Training Coordinator would supervise the allocation of funds to the
entities for training, and monitor their progress in complying with the
work program for social forestry training.
4.10    The DCF in charge of a given district would normally arrange for
participation of voluntary groups in that district, since the groups
prefer to select individual sites for their involvement in social
forestry. At the training session for each volunteer group, the
forester(s) designated for the area involved would attend to establish a
working relationship. DCFs would also arrange the participation of rural
groups in the district programs.
4.11    A Finance Officer deputed from the Accountant General-s Office
would handle SFW's finances and accounting. The Accountant General of
Kerala and SFW bave already set up a system of accounts which will be
compatible with SFW's needs as well as GOI's and IDA's. The revised
system includes amendments in schedules for non-cash transactions,
accounting procedures for withdrawals from IDA, and a "project balance
sheet".
4.12    As of March 1984, a Steering Committee was constituted for Social
Forestry in Kerala, and has already held meetings. The Committee consists
of the Commissioner for Economic Development (Chairman), Agriculture
Production Commissioner, Special Secretary to Government/Agriculture, the
Secretaries to Government for Planning and Public Works, the Secretary to
Government Finance/ Expenditure, Chief Conservator of Forests/Development,
Chief Conservator of Forests/ Social Forestry, Chief Engineer/Irrigation,
and Director of Agriculture.



-26-
V.      COST ESTIMATES. FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Proiect Cost Estimates
5.01    Project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at Rs 599.1
million (US$54.5 million), of which Rs 40.1 million (US$3.7 million) or
6.8X would be foreign exchange. Duties and taxes are estimated at Rs 16.7
million, equivalent to 2.8% of total project costs. Cost estimates a-e
based on January 1984 prices projected to July 1984. Table 5.01 below
summarizes project costs; details are provided in Annex 3, pages 1-7. The
project includes local consultant assistance in training, publicity, and
research .
5.02    Physical contingencies (US$2.6 N) amount to 6.2Z of base costs and
were estimated using the following rates: (a) civil works 1OZ; (b) plan-
tation establishment 5%; (c) vehicles, equipment, and furniture 10%; (d)
operation and maintenance 5%; and (e) staffing 5%. Price contingencies,
(25.4% of base costs) were based on the inflation rates below. These
rates are expected to apply because of the amount of civil works and the
upward trend of wages in Kerala because of strong unionization.
Inflation Rates   FY: 84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/9Q
Local                       8       7       7        7       6       6
International:            4.75   8.25       9        9    8.63    7.13



-27-
Table 5.01:   PROJECT COST SUMKARY
INDIA
KRALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROET
PROJECT COST SUHARY/
(RuPees Nillion)     (USS Nillian)             I Total
Z  Fortig  Bse
Local Foreign Total Local Foreitre Tota  Exchange   Costs
A. DRANZATION AND  1AAENE          158.3    8.6 166.9  14.4    0.8 15.2          5       37
B. PLANTATIO ACTIVITIES
SEEDUNG PRODUCTION              141.6   15.8 157.4  12.9    1.4 14.3         10       35
LARGE BL=CK PLANTATIONS          70.0    0.5 70.5   6.4    0.0  6.4           1       15
SLL BLOCK PATATIONS               4.9    0.0  5.0   0.4    0.0  0.5           1        1
STRIP   ATATIONS                  8.7    0.1  8.8   0.8    0.0  0.8           1        2
TL  FUELODB PATATIOGNS            9.0    0.1  9.1   0.8    0.0  0.8           1        2
TR-BL EDICINAL PILOT SCE          0.6    0.0  0.6  O01    0.0  0.1            4        0
PLAATION PROCTION                 3.8    0.0  3.8   0.3    0.0  0.3           1        1
Sub-Total PLANTAION ACTIVITIES     238.6   16.6 255.3  21.7    1.5 23.2          7      56
C. EXTENSION AND PUICITY            2.8    1.0  3.8   0.3    0.1  0.3           26       1
D. TRAN1N                           23.5    4.0 27.5   2.1    0.4  2.5          14       6
E. RESEARCH AI STUIES                1.7      -  1.7   0.2       -  0.2          -       0
Total BASELIIE COSTS                425.0   30.2 455.2  38.6    2.7  41.4          7     100
Physical Contingencies             26.4    1.9 28.4   2.4    0.2  2.6           7       6
Price Contingencies               107.7    7.9 115.6   9.8    0,7 10.5          7       25
Total PROJECT COSTS                 559.1   40.1 599.1  50.8    3.6  54.5          7     132
June 229 1984 12:07
1/ Differences due to computer rounding



-28-
B. Proposed Financing
5.03    An IDA credit of US$31.8 X, equivalent to about 60% of total
project costs, net of taxes and duties, is proposed. GOK vould supply the
remaining US$22.7 N, to be allocated under its Fifth and Sixth Plans. The
proposed IDA credit would be made to GOI on standard terms and conditions.
GOI would channel the proceeds to GOK in accordance with GOIVs terms and
conditions for development assistance to constituent States.
5.04    Retroactive financing of up to US$1.0 M would be provided to cover
the following expenditures incurred after March 31, 1984: nursery develop-
ment, advance soil works for plantations, procurement of essential
vehicles and equipment, incremental staff employed on the 1984 planting
operation, and consulting services.
C. Procurement
5.05    Civil works (US$10.8 M) would be small and scattered, both
geographically and over time, consisting mainly of simple housing, office
and training facilities which would not be of interest to international
bidders. Therefore contracts would be let after competitive bidding
advertised locally according to goverrment procedures which are satisfac-
tory to IDA. The local contracting industry in India is well developed
and adequate competition should be offered. However, if due to the small
size of the individual contracts, (below the equivalent of us$50,000) no
responsive bids or no bids at all are received, force account work would
be utilized.
5.06    Vehicles, equipment and furniture (US$1.8 M). Most vehicles
(US$1.1 M) H) would be purchased in the first two years, except for motor-
cycles and mopeds for staff recruited in subsequent years. As adequate
maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount impor-
tance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types
already used by government departments. Thus, procurement would be under
local competitive bidding according to government procedures which are
acceptable to IDA. Imported research and other technical equipment
(US$0.2 M) would be specialized, often proprietary, and required in small
quantities and, therefore, would not be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. These items and other equipment, materials and furni-
ture would be bulked, whenever appropriate to facilitate purchase and
procured through local competitive bidding except when individual con-
tracts are valued at less than US$20,000 in which case prudent shopping
would be used which involves comparing prices from no less than three
independent foreign or local suppliers. In cases of proprietary and
highly specialized items, such as seeds requiring special qualities, and
books, direct purchase would be used.



-29-
5.07    Plantation activities (US$31.4 M) would be scattered over large
areas throughout the state and would be carried out under Forest Depart-
ment force account. Consultant services (US$0.1 1) would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines.
5.08    For the procurement in paragraphs 5.05-5.07 above, all contracts
over US$150,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review.
D. Disbursements
5.09    Disbursements under the project would be completed by December 31,
1991, about 9 months after project completion (Annex 4). The six and
three-quarter year disbursement period compares with about 10 years for
the typical forestry and fishery subsector project in the South Asia
region. The difference is justified by the experience from other IDA
financed social foreatry projects in India which have proved to be quicker
disbursing than other projects in the subsector (see Project File, Item
11). In particular, civil works and the small volume of procurements
would be done early during project implementation and most funds would
be disbursed against plantation activities which experience has shown move
more quickly.
5.10    Disbursement of the proposed US$31.8 M Credit would be as follows:
Credit
Allocation           X of Expenditures
Category                       (USM  0001            to be financed
1.  Civil works including          5,400                        50%
architects' fees but
excluding land purchase
2.  Vehicles, equipment,             900                100% of foreign expen-
furniture, books,                                   ditures, 100l   of local
materials                                           expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 70%
of local expenditures
for other items procured
locally
3.  Plantation activities         18,400                        60X
including nursery estab-
lishment, seedling production
and, plantation establishment
and maintenance



-30-
4.  Consultancies, studies,        1,700                        100Z
foreign and local study
tours, training
5.  Incremental staff salaries    3,400                         60Z
6.  Unallocated                    2.000
31,800
5.11    Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would
be against statements of expenditures certified by the CCF/Social
Forestry, the documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for
review but would be retained by the project authorities and made available
to IDA review missions for their inspection: (a) plantation costs, local
and overseas training costs; (b) payments under civil works contracts not
exceeding Rs 300,000 and those carried out under force account; (c)
locally procured vehicles, equipment and furniture costing Rs 150,000 or
less, (d) research, studies and local consultant costs. Disbursement
against all other items, excluding the above, would be contingent upon
full and satisfactory documentation. All disbursement applications would
be submitted to IDA through the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of
GOI. Assurances covering the foregoing were obtained during negotiations.
E. Accounts and Audit
5.12    The Forest Department's Social Forestry Wing, at headquarters and
throughout its field offices, would maintain separate project accounts
in a readily identifiable form to enable them to be audited independently
from overall accounts in a timely manner. The Chief Conservator of Social
Forestry would be responsible for the consolidation of the accounts. The
project accounts, in addition to normal government cash based entries,
would record non-cash transactions (e.g. procurement under procedure III).
For easy identification and monitoring, the classification of development
expenditure would be similar to that discussed with IDA during appraisal.
The principal format of such accounts has been agreed with the Accountant
General in Kerala and GOK. GOK has designed such accounts and introduced
the new accounting system. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
separate project accounts would be maintained by FD/SFW. Such accounts
and statements of expenditure would be submitted for independent audit
within 4 months of the fiscal year end and that audited statements would
be made available to IDA not later than 6 months after the end of such
year. The audit report would include a statement verifying that funds
reimbursed by IDA against statements of expenditure had been used for the
purposes of the project.



-31-
VI.     PRODUCTION, MARKETING. FINANCIAL RESULTS AND COST RECOVERY
A. Yields and Production
6.01    Projected yields and production of the principal species to be
planted are summarized in Table 6.01 below. It should be noted that wood
yields for farm forestry are expected to be higher than for departmental
plantations because many trees would be planted individually, or with wide
spacing between trees crops, and therefore they would grow faster. In
calculating the total yields from farm forestry plantations, an initial
mortality/waste rate of 40% has been anticipated.
Table 6.01: PER HECTARE YIELDS OF MAJOR SPECIES TO BE PLANTED UNDER PROJECT
MEAN ANNUAL INCREMENT (MAI)
farm      public
forestry     lands      total: metric
m3/ha/yr  m3/ha/yr      tons/ha/year
Ailanthus malabaricum                        15            -         6.9
Eucalyptus grandis                           15           15         6.9
Eucalyptus tereticornis, midcountry          15           12         6.9 (7.2*)
Eucalyptus tereticornis, dryzone             15           10         6.0 (6.9*)
Acacia auriculaformis, midcountry            15           12         6.0 (6.9*)
Acacia auriculaformis, dryzone               15           10         6.9 (7.2*)
Acacia auriculaformis, coastal               15           15         6.9
Casuarina (3000poles and 46m3
fuelwood per ha over 15 yrs.)           11.5        11.5        6.9
Leucaena, albizzia and others interplanted 15             i/         6.9
Grevillia                                    10            -         6.0
*Indicates when farm forestry figure is higher than that for public land
I/ Same estimated average yields as the major species with which they
would be interplanted.
6.02    For farm forestry the main output is expected to be:  timber and
peelers (28Z), poles (48%), and fuelwood (24%). A large proportion of
Ailanthus is likely to be sold to matcnbox/splint and packing case
manufacturers. The utilization of produce would be somewhat flexible; for
instance, trees originally envisioned for pole production could be cut and



-32-
sold as fuelvood if the farmer so decided..J Fuelvood would be the main
output of plantations established on state property as well as those
established near tribal areas. On government land, only Casuarina would
be managed for other purposes, i.e., pole production. In farm forestry as
well as departmental plantations, leaf fodder could be obtained from
Leucaena, Ailanthus and Neem; also, grass, deadwood, twigs and other
matter would be collected by farmers for fuel and fodder during growth and
at felling. Only the material devoted to fuelwood and other wood produc-
tion has been included in the calculation of economic/financial viability
of the project.
6.03    Based on the estimated MAI, the incremental production of wood
under the proposed project is estimated to be as follows:
Table 6.02: ESTIMATED INCREMENTAL PRODUCTION (M m3)
Source
Farm           Public
Product                                 Forestry       Lands             Total
Fuelvood (including lop & top)--          7.7            4.2              11.9
Timber and peelers                       13.9             -                13.9
Poles                                    19.5            4.5              24.0
Total production                         41.1            8.7              49.8
B. Marketing of Produce
6.04    It is anticipated that a considerable proportion of the farm
forestry produce would be marketed in the form of timber, peelers and
poles. Farmers would also sell some wood as fuel; branches and fragments
of wood matter would probably be consumed by farm families themselves. On
the other hand, a major proportion of produce from government lands would
be marketed as fuelwood.
1/ The project has not accounted for the possible sale by private farmers
of some wood to pulp and newsprint mills (described in paragraph 2.18),
because the mills are in the process of establisbing capacity. However,
given the large potential demand of the mills and the attractive prices
they would offer, it would not be surprising if private farmers entered
that market and local brokers took initiative for wood transport to mills.



-33-
6.05    There would be no marketing constraint to the incremental produc-
tion of wood because of the rapidly increasing shortages for fuelvood and
wood products and the existence of a marketing infrastructure. Poles from
government lands would be sold through current auction practices or
marketed from sales depots following standard FD procedures. The existing
system for marketing would provide an outlet for wood to be sold for poles
or wood from farmers' own lands, and to be transported to urban and
semi-urban areas where it is in demand. Information on the longterm
marketability of wood products still needs improvement, which is why the
wood supply and demand study (paragraph 3.34) would be conducted.
6.06    In marketing the fuelwood produced on public lands, GOK would
distribute the wood to Forestry Department depots and other sites located
throughout the state. For the most part, the wood would be marketed
nearby the plantations where it was grown, thereby saving on transporta-
tion costs. Distribution would follow the method used presently by "fair
price stores", which were created by GOK to sell basic commodities to the
poor at concessional prices. These fair price stores have heretofore
dealt essentially with consumption goods such as rice, selling them to
ration card holders. jj The ration-card system has been utilized for some
time and works fairly efficiently. Assurances were obtained at nego-
tiations that principles governing the sale of fuelwood from the Forest
Department's lands would be finalized by June 30, 1986, in consultation
with the Association. It was understood that in finalizing arrangement
for sale of fuelwood GOK would take into account, inter alia, the finan-
cial implications for the Government of Kerala, the consumers' ability to
pay and the administrative feasiblity of these arrangements.
C. Financial Results and Cost Recovery
6.07    Financial Results for Government.  For plantations on public land,
which account for about one-quarter of seedling production, GOK would
recover its investment through the sale of fuelvood and poles produced
there. Poles would be sold at their market prices, and fuelwood would be
sold at concessionary prices (paragraph 6.06). Jf the Government priced
the stumpage value of fuelwood at about 30% of its estimated market value,
it would break even in terms of costs incurred and benefits derived from
its plantations. If the Government priced the stumpage value at 50% of
the estimated market rate, it would earn a 4% rate of return on its
investments.
1/ GOK distributes public rati3n cards which entitle the bearer to a
certain level of discounts and benefits, based on the bearer's finan-
cial status.



-34-
6.08    As for farm forestry, the operation of family and school-operated
nurseries would help reduce the costs of seedling distribution through
reduced transportation costs. Already the total cost of plantation iB
low, since farm forestry costs about one fifth the amount for plantation
on government land, and farm forestry constitutes over four fifths of the
project.
6.09    Financial results for farmers.  Since farmers are expected to sell
a large proportion of their produce (rather than consume it directly), the
financial returns to farmers would be very attractive. They would pay no
charges for seedlings up to the distribution limit, and only a nominal at
cost charge for the rest. Maintenance costs would be negligible in the
case of trees planted individually. For Casuarina trees planted in
blocks, farmers would have to supply protection, but the financial costs
to the farmer would be minimal.
6.10    Annex 5 shows the financial cost and benefit streams under the
project.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RILZS
A. Benefits
7.01    The direct beneficiaries of the proposed project would be those
farmers planting trees. The "Land Use Survey" for social forestry con-
ducted by GOK showed at least 50Z of Kerala's approximately 3.5 M farm
families wish to plant trees; GOK expects that the number would be
expanded by extension and publicity. Other beneficiaries would be the
rural and semi-urban population in Kerala who depend heavily on forest
produce such as firewood, small timber, and poles for their everyday
living. The rural poor, including landless laborers, small and marginal
fan *rs, members of tribal groups and of other disadvantaged communities,
woui6 be particularly benefitted by the additional output generated by the
project and by part of the output from plantations on public land that
would be distributed to them at cost price.
Institutional Development
7.02    In the longrun, institutional development would constitute the
most important benefit generated by the project, because it would enable
Kerala to sustain increased economic and environmental achie.ements under
social forestry. In addition to strengthening SFW and related institu-
tions, the project would create a network of small nurseries sradually
taken over by farmers and schools. Most of the farmers selected would be
small holders. Beyond benefitting the small nursery operators with an
additional personal livelihood, this scheme would help the gradual trans-
fer of skills and responsibilities to them.



-35-
Production Impact
7.03    The emphasis of more than 80% of project-financed activities on
farm forestry, combined with intensive extension and publicity support to
farmers for good quality agroforestry methods, would increase the direct
benefits to farmers from social forestry. Since farmers would sell a
large proportion of their produce, and would take VI'm of the revenues
from these sales, the increases in production woul generate substantial
income for farmers. Keeping in mind that 90% of Kerala farmers own less
than one ha of land, and that seedling distribution would aim at reaching
all farmers in targetted areas, the large majority of beneficiaries would
be small farmers.
7.04    Since the production of fuelwood and poles on departmental planta-
tions would be distributed principally through a special scheme to ration
card holders (paragraph 6.06), it would provide needed access for the poor
- particularly the landless - to wood products. Adjacent populations
would also gather twigs and other small matter for fuel and grass for
fodder from departmental plantations, thus providing another benefit.
Conservation
7.05    Pressures on existing forestland have mounted in recent years, and
would continue to do so if fuelwood shortages were allowed to become even
more acute. The project would help diffuse those pressures, while at the
same time helping restore trees to many areas now subject to erosion
because of poor grecwing conditions for crops or careless cultivation
techniques. In backwarer areas, plantation of trees would help reclaim
agricultural land.
Employment Generation
7.06    Unemployment in Kerala has been running above 10%, with the
proportion of persons in lower education levels growing over the last ten
years. The project would generate employment primarily for lower educated
persons. The 550 new jobs created in social forestry operations would
include nearly 200 Foresters, 34 Forest Assistants, and many others con-
nected with field operations. More importantly, the 1055 small nurseries
ultimately established would provide employment for approximately 3,000
farmers and school staff; ultimately, many of the nurseries vould comprise
a ne- source of income to farmers taking them over. Finally, the
project-financed plantations would generate 9 million laborer-days of work
on establishment and maintenance during project operations.



-36-
B. Justification
7.07    The loss of forest land, coupled with increasing population pres-
sures on available wood resources, is quickly carrying Kerala to a criti-
cal point in terms of wood shortages. Already the poor are feeling the
brunt of the situation. The project would help head off more serious
problems threatening the state in the immediate future.
7.08    Besides just alleviating wood shortages, the project would posi-
tively stimulate the economy by providing increased incomes for those
planting trees, additional sources of livelihood for over 1000 small
nursery operator groups, and Pasier access to fuelvood for the poor,
including the landl#ss.  The 26X Pstimated economic rate of return is
conservative, in view of the fact that over 80% of nlantation would occur
under farm forestrv, where coets are low and income high for fprmers-
7.09    Experience in ongoing Bank-financed social forestry projects, and
the last two years of social forestrv operations in Kerala, has shown
substantial farmer interest in planting trees. The main problem now is to
improve seedling quality, recommendations to farmers, and aftercare of
seedlings, and this is symptomatic of the need to strengthen institutions.
The project would play an important role in supporting the institutional
development of social forestry in Kerala.
C. Economic Analysis
7.10    Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return of the
project is 26%. The rates of return of the component plantations range
from 33% for farm forestry, which is the most economic and also the
largest project component, to 15% for departmental strip plantations which
is still well above the opportunity cost of capital assumed to be 12%.
Details are given below:
Table 7.01: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Percent
Farm Forestry                          33
Departmental Plantations
Large Block P'lantations             26
Institutional Plantations            17
Strip Plantations                    15
Tribal Plantations                   25
Total Project                          26



-37-
7.11    The component rates of return have been calculated on the basis of
direct costs only. Overheads (37% of costs) were included only in cal-
culating the return of the total project. No benefits have been included
for the pilot tribal program for cultivation of medicinal plants (0.2Z of
costs) because of the speculative nature of its results. All values are
in 1984 constant prices. The economic analysis has been made in border
rupees, with international prices converted to rupees at the exchange rate
of US$1 = Rs 11. Local costs, including labor, have been converted to
border rupees by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.8. The finan-
cial cost for labor (46% of costs) has been taken as Rs 20 per man-day
which is fixed statutorily in the Minimum Wages Act; there is a strong
upward push on wages through the influence of unionization. Because of
this and because of the high un- and under-employment in Kerala the cost
of labor has been adjusted by a factor of 0.6 to reflect its real value.
Traded goods and services have been valued on the basis of their c.i.f.
import cost. Although tree planting by farmers is supposed to be on
unutilized land where it is not in competition with other crops this may
not always be the case. Therefore an opportunity cost for land has been
included for farm forestry in the base case (para 7.12). Departmental
plantations are on waste land and no land value has been imputed. Prices
and conversion factors used are shown in Annex 5, Table 1.
D. Sensitivity Analysis
7.12    As suimmwnrized in the table below, the economic rate of return
s-hows little sensitivity to changes in most variables. For example, wood
prices or yields would have to fall an unlikely 73% before the rate of
return of the project would fall below the opportunity cost of capital of
12% assumed for India, or total project costs would have to increase by
over 278% for this to happen. The true average opportunity cost of land
is difficult to estimate since farmers may plant trees under varying
conditions. However, even if the opportunity cost of land is valued at
the price charged by farmers for renting land for Forest Department nur-
series, the project rate of return remains satisfactory at 17%. In the
hypothetical situation that the markets for poles and small timber were to
be saturated and all the project wood output had to be sold as firewood,
the project rate of return would still be 14%, above the opportunity cost
of capital. Of the individual plantation models, only departmental strip
plantations show any greater sensitivity to changes in project cost and
benefits. As a result, roadside plantations due to their high fencing
costs did not meet the economic investment criteria and were excluded from
the project.



-38-
Table 7.02: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Switchint Values jj
Total Proiect
Total benefits, prices or vields                     -73Z
Total costs                                          278%
Farm Forestry
Total benefits, prices or yields                     -81Z
Total costs                                          438%
DeDt. Block Plantations
Total benefits, prices or yields                     -69%
Total costs                                          223Z
Institutional Plantations
Total benefits, prices or yields                     -381
Total costs                                           62Z
Dept. Strip Plantations
Total benefits, prices or yields                     -151
Total costs                                           171
Tribal Plantations
Total benefits, prices or yields                     -61%
Total costs                                          1591
Economic Rate of Return
Total Project:
Base Case                                                261
Total benefits, wood prices or yields
down 101                                25Z
down 50Z                                181
lagged 1 year                           231
lagged 5 years                          171
Total Costs     up 50%                                   211
Cost of farm forestry land equal rental value            171
All wood sold as firewood                                161
Labor priced at financial costs                          231
11  Opportunity cost of capital - 12%



-39-
E. Proiect Risks
7.13    The project faces no major risks that might endanger its overall
viability. The Forest Department has sufficient capacity and experience
to implement the departmental plantation program. In the past, lack of
funds has resulted in neglect of the weeding of young plantations so
necessary for satisfactory yields. The project provides necessary finance
for weeding and also for protection against forest fires vhich can cause
serious damage. In farm forestry the levels of seedling distribution
under the project would not exceed levels already attained in the 1982
and 1983 programs. Therefore, farmer acceptance would be no problem.
There will always be some wastage of seedlings but the risk for such
losses would increase if other seedling distribution programs in Kerala
were to be superimposed on the IDA project and create an oversupply of
planting stock or overextend the staff and other resources available for
the production and distribution of seedlings and for extension advice to
farmers. It was understood at negotiations that GOK would consult with
the Association with regard to any new social forestry programs over and
above the project-financed e.ctivities and other social forestry activities
for which budgetary provision has already been made.
7.14    Compared to other social forestry projects in India, the extension
staff employed by the Forest Department for social forestry has been kept
at a minimum. Instead the project would use the existing agricultural
extension service to give advice on proper tree planting and maintenance
techniques. This new approach necessarily involves certain risks. To
minimize risks and promote effective coordination and cooperation between
the Agricultural Extension Service and the Forest Department, which both
report to the same secretary, a Government Order was issued by GOK (April
21,1984) stipulating the plan and schedule for coordination at various
levels of organization.
7.15    Certain occurances of insect damage on Ailanthus trees, which are
included in the farm forestry program, have been observed. Insecticides
are, however, available and extension messages under the project would
include advice ou how to deal with the problem.
7.16    Since it has been assumed that farmers under the project would
plant a large proportion of trees for sale as poles, timber, etc., there
is also a theoretical risk of market saturation. Given the already
apparent shortage of wood, this risk is considered as remote. But even if
all the wood produced under the project were sold as fuelwood, including
the large number of poles grown with Casuarina. the rate of return would
still be above the opportunity cost for capital (paragraph 7.12). The



-40-
wood supply and demand study to be carried out under the project would
help to provide the data necessary to effectively quantify and monitor
the situation.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01    During negotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(a) Beginning in the 1985-86 planting season, up to 3500 Casuarina
seedlings (including replacement for losses) per family and up
to 500 seedlings for all other species per family shall be
distributed free of charge by GOK; GOK shall assess a charge
for seedlings in excess of that limit at the actual cost of
production. In addition, Forest Department nurseries shall
maintain registers on the number of seedlings distributed to
each family, and the Social Forestry Wing shall conduct
reviews during each planting season to ascertain that wastage
of seedlings is being minimized (paragraph 3.07);
(b) GOI and GOK would review the nurseries scheme every August
in order to assess progress and formulate plans for its
development, and submit a report to IDA (paragraph 3.17);
(c) GOK would complete and submit for IDA review the wood supply
and demand study by December 31, 1985 (paragraph 3.34);
(d) GOK would fill the posts of the tvo Regional Conservators of
Forests by December 31, 1984; in addition, it was agreed that
the two Social Forestry Circles as well as the following
positions would be maintained: Conservator for Training,
Extension and Publicity, Conservator for Planning and Program-
ming, Deputy Conservator for Forests for Monitoring and
Evaluation, Finance Officer, and the 14 district Deputy Con-
servators of Forests (paragraph 4.02);
(e) GOK would undertake a joint Mid-term Review of project
implementation promptly after completion of the third year's
planting program, and not later than March 31, 1987 (paragraph
4.06);
(f) GOK would provide for annual auditing of expenditures and
submission of an auditing report to IDA immediately after the
end of each fiscal year (paragraph 5.12);
(g) GOK would finalize arrangements governing the sale of fuelvood
from the Forest Department's lands by June 30, 1986 (paragraph
6.06), and in finalizing arrangements it was understood that



-41-
GOK would take into account inter alia., the financial implica-
tions for the Government of Kerala, the consumers' ability to
pay, and the administrative feasibility of these arrangements
(paragraph 6.07); and
(h) GOK would consult with IDA with regard to any new social
forestry programs over and above project-financed activities
and other social forestry activities for which budgetary
provision has already been made (paragraph 7.13).
8.02    With the above assurances obtained, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of $31.8 million to GOI on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX 1
1UUI1  SOCIAL rOP3Th!Y PUOJICT: SPICID  IUOIIATION
Utili ation of Kneel.e                     Sumnested Species by Plantation Nodel                     AarcliaLatic  4ntssj/                      CbtazrseriLtia
Calv-  8ue.      Eue. dry   strip small   tribal                                              Density
A.  IeceeDded Spetsc  Fuel Polea suiier  od4er                                                        la DI     lnlnn          1   A   A   A 5     k  2 xotalen b.-    bare-root e oant rid.
Aeacia ariculiforeis         x                                           x                  x           x     x        x       x   x   x           x  x      6-8         4500                      x
Ailanthus malsbaricum        x      x     x       z      x                                  x                 x                x   a   x                    10-15        2500          K           K
Albiaxia mollucana           x            *              x                                                                          K   K   x   x-10                     1500                      K
Aaadirachta indica                                                                                     x                                              x        IS        2500                      K
Casuarina equiestifolia    a                             x               x                 K                 x                      x              x K        115       10000          x           x
rlithriana                   x      x     a              a                                                                                  x                                                                 K x
Eucelyptuucitriodora         K      K                             x      x                x                  x   x      x K  K                x K              15        2500                      x
Eucalyptus srandis           X      X     K              K                        K                                    K                        K X-8                    2500                      K
Eucalyptus tereticornis    K                                                    x                                              x   x   x           x  x       8-10       2500                      K
Gliricidia sepium            K      K     K              K    K                                                                x   x   K   K  K  K  K                                                         K
Graevilla robuste            *      x     K              a    K                                                                             x  K             15-25       2500          x           K
Leucealn   laucoceplbs       a                    a      a    a x                          x                      x      K        x     a x    K x            4-8        5000                      X
Uwietenia  ih5g',x                  x                       x    x       x                                 x                   x   x   x           1         30-50       2500                      a
Nacaranga rosb&izSi          x            K              K                                 K                  K                K   K   K                         15                                K
Taearindus indica            K      x     K                   K                                               K                K   x   K                     20-50       2500                                 x
Tectona grandis              x      a     x                       x         x                                                  x            x  x      K
I/ Zones: 1) Coastal belt, 2) baehvwter areas, 3) southarn midlands 4) southern highlands,
5) northern bighlands, 6) lateritic soils, 7) mid-east rain shadow.



-43-                               Annex 2
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Comparative Figures on Social Forestry Project
A. Plantation Type              Uttar               West
(Z distribution) Kerala   Pradesh  Guiarat  Bengal  JAK  Haryana  Karnataka
Farm Forestry           812        8%    10        56Z    431   452        80Z
Block/deg. forests    14U         26Z    26%        162    391    -         13Z
Strip plantations       21        51Z    32%       221   2.2Z   141          4Z
Village woodlots        -          6%    311         61  11.3Z   18%         -
Other                   31         9Z      1X        -    4.5    231           31
B. Costs
(1 total base cost)
Plantation &      56.0%      30.51    60.81   69.31  60.2    62%         63.41
nurseries
Research            .5%        .8Z       .7:      .1Z    .1    .2Z         .2Z
Training           6.0%       2.9       1.51    1.8Z   4.5%  1.81         1.7Z
Organization
& Management      37%  .    41.9      35.6Z   28.4Z  31.6% 34.11         34.71
Other              1.51      23.92      1.41      .4    3.6X  1.9Z
Total Project
Costs (1001)    $54.5M      $46.51    $76.OM  $43.5M $27.9 $39.2M       $56.6M



ANNEX 3
Table 1
-44-
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Project Cownmts bh Year
(RtPees Million)
Total
Base Costs
__  _ _ _ _      --               ~~~~~~~~( US,
1984 195 1916  1987  1909  199  Ruees Million)
zz cc=    2  2= -   =_ ==2        = = 
A. ORGNIZATION AND IWANAfT         45.30 38.62 29.62 25.40 14.88  13.10  166.92   15.17
B. PLWNATION ACTIVITIES
SEEDLING PRODUWTIGN             12.79 18.00 23.24 29.00 35.39 39.00 157.43   14.31
LARGE KOCK PLANTATIONS           9.15 6.52 10.25 13.03 15.47  16.11  70.53    6.41
SNALL MUCK PLANTATIONS           0.19 0.46 0.72  0.99  1.26  1.34   4.96    0.45
STRIP PLANTATIONS                0.18 0.42 0.85  1.70  2.34  3.36   9.85    0.90
TRIBAL FUELVOB PLANTATIONS       0.37 o.92 1.47  1.76  2.22  2,31   9.06    0.82
TRIBAL EDICINAL PILOT SCHEME     0.03 0.06 0.09  0.12  0.16  0.16   0.62    0.06
LANTwATION PROTECTION            0.33 0.45 0.64  0.97  1.39  0.15   3.82    0.35
Sub-Total PANTATION ACTIVITIES     23.03 26.83 37.27 47,47 58.23 62.43 255.26   23.21
C. EXENSION AND PKLICITY            1.41  0.70 0.45  0.45  0.42  0.42   3.94    0.35
D. TRAINING                         9.30 10.63 2.32  1.81  1.71  1.71  27.47    2.50
E. RESE6RDI ND STUDIES              0.39 0.39 0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23   1.69    0.15
Total DASELINE COSTS                 79.43 77.16 69.88 75.36 75.46 77.8B  455.18   41.38
Physical Contingencies             6.01 5.68 4.48  4.44  3.95  3.90  2B.37    2.58
Price Contingrncies                3.30 9.58 14.52 22.39 29.01  36.79 115.59   10.51
Total PROJECT COSTS                  89.75 92.42 88.89 102.18 108.33 118.57 599.13   54.47
223 SS  S 2S  =   = =      S SS== S 2=23
Taxes                              3.36 2.94 1.86  2.S2  2.95  3.12  16.74    1.52
Foreign Exchanre                   6.17 6.32 5.47  6.53  7.28  8.30  40.07    3.64
June 27, 1984 10:31



ANNEX 3
Table 2
-45-
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Sumsair. Aomuts bs Year
Totals Including Contirdencies
(Rupees Million)
1984 1985 1986  1997  1988  1989 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORKS                          37.49 37.89 24.91 17.10  1.30     - 118,69
D. VBEICIES t EDUIPHENT AND FURNITURE    9.17  6.79 1.01  1.71  1.15  0.35 20.17
C. SEEDING PRODUCTION 4 FARM FORESTRY )   11.14 17.04 21.99 28.79 30.19 45.08 162.25
D. SEEDLIN PRODUCTIOIN ( GOMMENTAL )     2.80 4.03 7.16 10.22 12.62 14.40 51.22
E. PLANTATION ESTABLISNfN                4.23 8.85 14.38 19.87 25.86 26.87 100.06
F. PLANTATION MANA1ENT                   6.96 1.51 3.24  494  6.82  B.67 32.15
6. TRAINING                              6.70 3.93 1.41  1.46  1.42  1.52 16.44
H. RESEARDH AND STUDIES                  0.48 0.51 0.35  0.31  n.33  0.35  2.33
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     78.97 80.56 74.45 84.41 87.70 97.23 503.32
II. RECURET COSTS
A. STAFF SALMIES                        6.28 8.14 9.57  11.72 13.59 13.71  63.01
D. Vehicle Operating Costs              1.17 1.19 1.31  1.58  1.83  1.94  9.02
C. Office Operating Costs               2.29  1.66 1.89  2.22  2.57  2.73 13.36
D. Building Maintenanrce Costs          0.04 0.87 1.66  2.26  2.64  2.94  10.41
Total RECUMET COSTS                         9.78 11.86 14.43 17.77 20.63 21.33 95.81
Total PROECT COSTS                         88.75 92.42 88.89 102.18 108.33 118.57 59.13
June 27v 1984 10:29



ANNEX 3
Table 3-a
MM  SOCINL F1ESITY "10T
Table 102. m LIE  R TONCT10  (11   FSt IYJ
btaled Coat Table
P.rintr
Totals Includird  .tleS incles
gmwtStv                                     1_IIilelo)                "w
U13t cost                  t                  Cait.      . Gos    AU V
Unit   tMU t1M  1    1917 IMU I    Total      11n        4 195 t7 19n6 11713 1M19 Tota  Rt  be. Tm bte kcmt
_ - -  -5 --    e                                    _         -          = =                =
1. IMSUIl0S T3J
;. Cttnt Ter
Labor                  NILLIUN    14  23  34  36  44  54  201           44,720  1t0  1.3  2.5  3.2  42  5.5  13,2  0.e5    0          0    UW
Naterlal               KILLION    14  23  30  3   44  54  201  22781m37    .  0.  0.C  11  14  1.3   6.3  0.05  0.25    0.07    5F
Rent                    ILLIUI    14  23  30  36  44  54  201            4.170   01     Oi.2 0.2 0.3.3     3 1.1 0.05        0       0    OF
Sb-Total Currnt Tear                                                                1.*  2.5  3,5  4.S 5.t 7.7  25.6
2. Fellelrn Yrir
Laber                 NIlLIO      23  30  36 4    54 1  4      241      66,720   1.7 2.33.0 3.  5.2 5.5  21.6  0.05    0             0    569
Noarial                NIUIIB    23  30  36  44  54  54  241  22,71,237   0,6  0.6  l.  1.4  1.3  1,   7.4  0405 0.25    007    9F
Kent                  NILLIONS   23  34  U  44   54  54  241             417   f.t O.  e.2 0.2 0.3  03   1.4  0.05    0               0    5F
Sub-Tatal Follouino Tear                                                            2.4  3.3  4.2  5.5  7.3 7.7  34.4
SUI-Total     TD    1l65                                                               3.3 S.3  7.3 1t.l DJ.2 15.4  56.0
3. 5ON1A3UllE smiiii
I. Cuuit ear
Labor                 IILLIS    It  17  20  24  31  3   13   203127.5  2.4 4.1 5o1  6.6  90 ll.1  38.3  0.05    0                    fb    5F
Notarial               HILLIUS    11  17  20  24  31  36  13           u 6.0.311   2,3  3.6  4.9  .3  3.7  3.7  36.6  0.05  0.21    0.07    Dr
Runt                   NIII      11  17  20  24 31 3          13       l3340   0.1 0.20.2 0.3 0.4 0.5  1.60.e05    0                 0    9F
S-Total Cwrrent Year                                                                4,9 O.1 10.2 131l 13.0 22.3  76.5
2. Follouird tYe
Lake                  W11615   17  20  24  31  36  36  1"             67,72.5  1.3  1.6  2.0  2.3  3.5  3.7  14,9  0.5    0           0    OF
Nutrial                NUUIOfh   17  20  24  31  36  36  164  64,201,47   1.2  1.  2.9  2.7  3.3  346  14.2  0,65 0.25    0.07    SW
Ibnt                  NILIIUI     17  20  24   1   3I     3   164      3,127.5  0          0.1  0.t 0.2 0.2  0.7  0.01    0           0    gr                     r
Sub-Total Folloiin Tear                                                             2.5  3.2  4.1  5.6 7.0  7.4 29.3
S-Total CUAT1IID  SEEPILIUS                                                            7.4 11.2 14.2 11.7 25.0 29.7 10.3
Total III3TENT  a1ST                                                                     111 170 22.e 2t. 3t.2 451 162.2
rUI                                                                                       Ro11.1 17.0 22.0 2,l 3.2 45*1 162.2
JMe to 1M 11123



lUll
WDMJ SIML F3MTRY OCt
Table 112. qDlWlU  J3T10CN (IWiTIIMTU
kalhd Co.s Table
Paraters
Totals Iwludird CUntildin
kantita                                       ZI,  lIllian)              "W.
Ihil Ct     -     - --- Canto Fer.   Gross  limitv
Unit    194 IM    9   1937 1t 1M  I    TOtal   (1w )    14 195 13  I"7?1 1M IM  Toal late  Wh. Tax Rate kcamt
1. IWYSTn  CMTS
A. uEOm mu.lSs
1. Current Yer
. .____. ___
Labor                   lillion,     2  2.3  3.6  3.9  3.9  3.9  19.6      6A,70   0.1  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4   1.7   0.0A       0        0 
materials              IMilims       2  2.3  3.6  3,9  3.  3.9  19.6  229781.237   0.0   0.1   0.1  0.2  0.1  0.1   0.6  0.05  0.25    0,07    5S6
Rent                    lillian,     2  2.3  3.6  3.9  3.9  3.9  19.         4,170  0.0  0.00  0.0 o.o   #  0.0  0.1 o0.05         0        0     sIB
Sub-Total Currnt Year                                                                   0.2  0.3  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.A   2.5
2. Followird Tear
Labor                   illion   2.3  3.6  .9  3.  3.r 3.9  22.5            66u.n    0.2  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4   1.9  0.05      0        0     s3
Materials               Nilling   2.3  3.6  3.9  3.9  3.9  3.9  22,5  22.732.237   0.1 0.1  01  O.l 0.  0.1   0.6  0.05  0.25    0.07    Su
hnt                     Alillian     2  2,3  3.6  3.9  3.9  3.9  11.6        4,110   0.o  o.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0   0.1  0.05       0        0      Sm
_ _     .- __ -                                                                        I  
Sub-Total Followirn  Year                                                               0.2  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  0.6   2.7 W
STotal    0OlO  KMtllS                                                                    0A4  O.6  O.   1.0  2.0  1.3   5.1
U. CGITAUUIZID SIR1S
1. CuYretear
Laor                    lillions  3.9  4.4  1.3 12.1 14.5 16.1  59.3   203,37.5   0.9  1.0  2.1  3.3  4,2  5,0  W6.5  0.05         0        0      SE
Material                Nillims   3.9  4.4  1.3 1221 14.5 16.1  59.3  193.4051l  o.3  1,0  2.0  3.2  4.1  4.3  15.3  0.05  0.25    0.07           36
Reot                    Nillian,   3.9  4.4  8.3 32.l134.2 26.1 53.9         3,340   0,0  0.0  0,1  0,l 0.2  0.2   0.7  0,05       0        0      W3
Sub-Total Current Tear                                                                  1.7  2.1  4.2 6.6  8.4 10*0  33.0
2. Follaird Tear
Labor                   Millian,  4.4  3.3 12.1 24.5 16,l136,1 71.5S    67762.5   0.3  0.7  2,0  1.3  fit  1,7   6.6  0.05         0        0    33
naltlal                 lillian    4.4 3I3 12.1 H4.S l6.l l2.l  71.5  64202,47   0.3  0.6  1.0  I.3 125  W6  6o.2  0.05  0.25            0.07     33
let                     Nillian    4.4  3.3 12.1 24.5 16.3 16.2  72.5      31227,   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2  O.l O.l  0.3  0.05         0        0    93
Sb-Totl Followird Year                                                                  0.6  2.3  2.1  2.6  3.1  3.3  13.1
9b-Total COTAIERIZ1 SEEIIIS                                                                2.4  3.4  6,3  9,2 H1.6 2l.3  46.1
Total tilWIT1  EUM                                                                            2.0  4,0  7,2 102 122 144  51.2
- --           - I1 - - AIAI 
total                                                                                          2,l 4.0  7,2 10.2 12,6 14.4 51.2
N          -         - -Iw1
,hulw9. IM3 11234



ANNEX 3
-40--                          Table 4
hUhA
ERAA 50dM  rnFRY PMEC?
Table 101. thhlCT OR 12*Ii(N O ID IIAOIEltT
Dlr illed Coat Table
Tohls Ircludir4 Continown         ..i
O4tstv                                       (bs   llllon                Phu.
-bitt LEst             W------              --  rt f. i         is    un
Lhit 194 1915 1936 39t7 190  It  Total    IRsees)    13 I 5 I 3  1937 190 1909 Total Rt   Each. Tax late kwAl          t
east    s= t a t e   at. _a  t soot   =at.tntnf   tan 46  aCt *ttt *-_ tat, ann   stat. _att  fatte  tean
1. lCSIlUlfECCtS
A. CIVIL HUtS
1. laldius  nd  M s - Residental;l
CCF &uartas                                       -9I    -   -    -   -           1      35,214      -0.4   -    -   -   -    .t4   0.1 0.05             0     Cl
CF Ourters n                                                -   -    -   -        4      35,214   3.3  0.9   -    -   -   - 2.?    0.l 0'05              0    ac
XCF Olartern                                      3   S    7   4                 1 -  9  359214   1.2  2.2  1.3  2.0    -   -   3.3   0.1  0. 5          0    co
CF Quarters                                       3   4   5   3                  ts      234270   0.1 1.2 1.5  1.0    -   - 4.5    0.1 0.0               0    VAK
AiM  oricECts                                    25  15    9   -   -    -    49  2031,26.27   5.3  3.7  7.4    -   -   -  12.0   0.1  0.05               0    VS
Front Gurds                                     1U    4   4    2   3   -    34  200,409.744   2.0  0.5  0.i 0.3  1.    -   4.7   0.1  0.05               0    III
Su-Total baldinr  adt (sirn - Re,.dential                                                            10.6  9.0  7.F  3.3  1.3    - ;2.0
:. bildudnu ad Ibasi  - MnRsi.3udmntlal
............................... .........................,_..
Soclal forestry 11                              0.5  0.5    -   -    -         -  I   1.249440   0.7  0.3    -    -   -   -   i.5   0.1  0.05            0     CEK
Carclp  U (CFI                                    1   I          '                2      624.710   0.7 0.8   -    -   -   -   1.5   0.1  0.65            0    C03
Distract cI tDrg                                  7    ,   -   --4                       41h6430   3.3  3.6    -    -   -   -   6.t   0.1 0.65           0    VlK
Rariw  Offices                                   25    3   9   -    -   -    47           52.060   1.5  0.3  0.6    -   -   -  7.9   0.1  0.85           0    co
Sorse                                            22  I8  14   -    -   -    54   54.734.372   1.4  1.2  1.0    -   -    -  3.6   0.1 0.o5                0    CVA
Franter Stare cI lnRidne                         70  63  5    52    -   -    731         104.120   0.3  3.1  7.  7.6    -   - 31.3   0.1  0.05           0    cs
Sut-Total  auldnirus ad Msam - tN-Residential                                                        15.9 15.2 8.9 7.6             47.6
3. land  maicaton
REsodontial Kr                                    3   5    6    4   -   -    1i          201,240  0.7  1.3  1.6  2.2    -   -   4.3   0.1  0.05          0    CO
Rtesidntial ACr                                   2   3   2   2    -   -          9      233240  0.5 0.  0.5  0.6    -   -   2.4    0.1 0.b5             0     03l
ta-Rasidontial Iasr                              14  10  10   -    *   -    34           104.120   1.7  1.3  1.4    -   -   -   4,3   0.1  0.15          0    017
doereudential Famnter                            St  40  40  40    -   -    17R           70,090   5.2  3.0  4.1  4.4    -   -  17,5   0.1  *.05         0     VA
Sub-Total Land kwoalitoh                                                                             3.0  7.2  7.7  6.2    -   -  29.0
SO-Total CIVIL HItS                                                                                    34.6 31.3 24.4 17.1  1.3    - 103.7
a.  _ .H .f
1. Heodowrters
Car                                               3   -     -    -     -     -    1   420.714   0.3    -           -   -         0.3   0.1   0.2       0.3    IVF
Rmizobus                                          I   -    .          .           3 1 55.20.714   0.2   -   -    -               0- .2   0.1   0.2     0.3    V1W
Trailer                                           I    I   -   -   -   -         2    25m.25   0.0  3.0    -    -   -   -   0.2   0.1   0.1            0.2    1WF
Sub-Total  eadmwrtars                                                                                0.5  0.0    -    -   -   -  0.5
2- aeltoral Offices
tar                                               2   -      2   V.335.714   0.2   - 0.2   0.1   0.2                                               0.3     Vf
2uIMe                                             4   2          -   -              -  6  07,t.071   0.4  0.2      -         -  0.6    0.1   0.2       0.3     DfV
Truck                                             3    1   -134,59.23  0.5  .5                                     --        - 1.0    0.1  0.2         0.3    DVW
Traler                                            4 ?         - -                     25.316.7%    0.1  0.1    -    -   -   -   0.2   0.1   0.2        0.3     Vff
Taskaith Pwn                                      3   3    - -             -      &  2. .76   0.1  0.1   -    -   -   -  *.2   0.1   0.2               0.3     VF
Ilalbus                                           2- -         -    -    -    -2  15-,240.714   0.4    -           -    -        0.4   0.1   0.2       0.3     VF
Se-lotl lgimal Offces                                                                                1.6  0.9                   -   2.5
1. Distraet Offices
ND IeJ                                           14  14    -   -    -   -    2a  87.91.071   1.4  1.5    -    -   -   -  2.9   0.1   0.2               0.3    Vff
Trailer                                          14  14    -   -   -   -    23   25.31.25   0.4  0.4    -    _                -   -   .9    0.1   0.1  0.2    VfF
Seal) leA 6   10    -   -    -   -                                               16  I0,3.714   3.1  0.1   -    -   -    -   0.2   0.1   0.2           0.3   IWF
Seb-Tota District Offic                                                                              1.9  2.1   -    -   -   -   4.0
I. H       Offices
Ntotarccles                                      21   5    5   a    I   -    47  I2.624.53   0.4  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.2    -   1.0   0.1  0.1    0.25             WV
Sd-total Rws Offaces                                                                                 0.4  0.1  0.1  0.2  0.7    -   1.0
5. Fteld Stff
|otarcveles                                      20   5    2   11   11   -       46    6,624.533  0.4  3.1  3.0  0.3  0.2    -   1.0   0.1  0.1    0.25    WV
Reeds                                            32  20    4  47  29   -    1822         6213.4  0.6  0.2  0.0  0.4 0.3    -   1.4   0.1  0.2    0.25    VEF
oats                                              I   I   -   -    -   -          2  103.293.747   0.1  0.1    -        -   -  *0.2   0.1  0.1    0.17    VW
Sb-Total Field Staff                                                                                 1.1  0.4  0.1  0.7  0.3    -  2.7
1bToaLl VENICLES                                                                                        5.5  3.5  0.2  0.9 0.7    - 10.6



AMSE 3
C. EfaNmE
lw#.n~~~~~~~~~ws                    2~~~~6  16    - - -    32    7M.7924    0.1 0.2   -              -         34 @ 0.1 1        04      WI
I            -               I   0462.0   042   -           -           LI4   @1 044       6as    w
Ulmlatasi                          ~~~~~~~~~             ~~~330 a      31    3.37.23  644 LI               0- @       0 41LO     045    %
1                            I     3610.13                          -    4   941 041       043    W
~sublo   ame                                                                                       0.6.2   - - - -1.0
3. FORTIUM
1.~
-           - 0.0         -   -   -  61 .0   0.1    a    0.12    31
Jr. Oqwm.tu,a.t                                -       2    ---            I    6.776        - 0.  0.4    -        - .094.          9    @42    WI
UCa -O3-*-                                                                         4.170    - 0.00.3    -          -.        9.1    9    9.52    wI
a0w1                                           -II.-                       2  2.241.325       0-0.0   I      6.0 -   - @. 9          9    042    WIf
13 Twist-                                            II                    2   2,241135    -9 9 0-             -   - .0 0.1          0    9412    wI
Confideninal  Iat                                                               2.241I.375     @4    - - - -   .                     0    0.12    WI
3'w.ev       -l.- -                      I      121.15    -@4    -   -   -   -0.9    9.1    6    9.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~02    WI
M2mrpr                                            12      - - -            2      321.25       0.4   -         - -.3         9        2 9  .2     W
UF (Raut1IWSIU   E,.alqagw,                   -   I   -   -   -   -        1   17.201-25    - 9.9 0                    0.9   9.1    9    0.12    my
MY                                            -   I1     -   -- -          1    7-1.7S1I     -09.0    -- -            .964.          9    0.12    WIf
An    asl                                          I     -      -   -      I    7.U9.75    -9.0       -       ---   -.0.9 4          0    0412    3
it. 1forlo, ofSLauticsI   -   -                                 I     741L3.2    - 9.0   - - -   -    6.0   9.           9    0.32    31
Osat. SLVtastilam                                  2   -   - -             2    6.104.75    - #4      -       -        0.0   0.3    0    @LO      WI
sgctal Vog.uukr,st.                                I 1 I                   2       4.317    -04  0.0   -                .0   0.1    0     0.12    wI
bust.,P P,MW~                                 -        -   -   -   -       1    742IL3.2       0.0   -   -   -   -  0.9   L.2    6    9.12    WI
compiler                           . ~2    -        - -     -    7      49507    -9.0       -- -      -6 .9       9.2        9L1       VWI
31*u-7usst                                    -     2 ----.                 1     4.7055    -9.9        -- -  -6 .0          0.1    0    0.22    31
LB ?..k1                                      -       *I-   -              I   b2Q.26.         LO44     -- --0         4.0   9.1    0    6.22    WI
OtLaI~                                        -         -I--                      521.25    -0.9        -- --6   .0          0.1    0    0.O      WI
a  iest                                       -   I                        t         4.27    -9.9       -- -- -6 .6    04           9    L.O      W
to  lut                                       -     1 -I--                 1        4.170    -9.0   -  --    -  40.99.               9    9.12    VW
UF Iflw.urg wA 7Pms1,)                        -   I - -              -     I   17.301.25     - 0.9   -   -   -   -  9*0   9.1    O    0.12    VW
Am-                                                        - I             1    7.391.25     - .0   -  --    - 4.    0.2    9    L.1              VW
La Twist                                           1           I                2 M.=94      -9.0   -0                  .0   0.1    0    3.1      IF
ti M"t                            ~~~- I--                      2       4.170    -04.00.0O   -   -   -06.0   0.1    0    L.12    WI
Sn.,,                                         -   I   -                           321.25    - 0.0        --     -      9.34              0L2    VWI
FurAe, Ot'mv                                  -   I   -                          7.3110.7.5    -.    -                 0-0.  094    9    LO3      WI
Sr. Sw,nut,ndmt                               -   I   - -            -     I    7410.15    - 0.0   - - - -  9.3   9.1    9    0.32    VW
Jr. S.perantanat                              -   2         - - -          2    6.77.3       - 9.0 -               -  0.9   6.1    9    0.IZ   VW
*C1mot                                        -   I                        1         4,170    -0.9      --    -       .0     0.I    9    0.12   VWI
LrI es                                        -     1 -I--                 1       4.1M         Ie 00 -       ---0.00.  01           9    9.12    VIY
to 1wns                                       -   I   -   -   -   -        1   2b241.32      - 0.0    -   -   -   - 0.0  0L1              9.12    VIF
L3lvwa,t                                      -   I   -   -                     7.241.373    -0L0    -   -   -   -9.  0.1 L         9    9.1    VW
bAdviutertzwvAlst.                            -   I                             71.5        -0.                         0 09.1    0    6.12    WI
Sqh-t#W  ioaa  rt4wb                                                                           -0.3  04           -       0
-.rg51w4 offices
r                                             I-          - -           -       27.201.23  0.0-             -     -     - 0.b   L.1    9    0.32   VW
x3r                                           2   2 -           -   --     4    7".31.504. 0.4   -                 -.        9.1    9    042    WI
lbokftst.sttwOwt.                             I   I   -   -   -   -        2    7.019.25  94.0M    -               - 0.   9.1    0    L.12    WIV
Jr. Oey,11mot                                 2   2   -   -   -   -        a 4   .773.13.096.09         -   -   -    L  0.0   3      0    L.3     WI
NU Fuld Sw ese ft                             -   2   .   .   .   .        2    6,904.73    - 4.0   -   -   -   -04.0   ,..1    0    042    39
NU1 71*14 Issestiantors                       -  ID   -   -          -    to       121.2S    - 01.0   -   -   -   -  0. 09.3    0    L.12    WIV
kcjel Vw,,t.,&soL                             2   2   -   -   -   -        4       4.37  0.9 3.3,  -   -   -   -  6.3   9.1    9    9.22    31
yibd A,tM.td                     1                      -  -   --          2    6#776.259DJ00.3         -- --0.9             9.1    0    0.12    WI
aUCletI 1-  ?- --    3    4.120 9.0 -06.0   ---6 0.0  .1   0  0.12  31
Sf.-1u4,t                                     I   2   2   -   -   -        A      4.7055  0.0 9.0 0.0   -   -   -  LO.09.2    0    0.12    IV
Un..,r                                        A   2   -   -   -   -        S      1I21.5  .090.0   -   -   -   -0.0    9.1    9    042    VW
pwajct NgIimsa                                I   I    -   -   -           2       121.25  0.0 0.0 - -   -         -  9.9   94       0    L.12    WI
attend,?                                      4  -2  ---                   6,    21430.0 - D.0    ---90490.1    9  0.2  IF
0*i-mow  &sI..a1 Offls                                                                       0.1 0.1 0.4   -          -0.
3. 1151,1* 010 ice
K?                                            7   7 -           --    -   14    7,131.75  0.1 0.1        -- -    -0 .1       9.1    9    9.22    WI
ha                                            7   7      -   -   -        24    7.201.75  0.1 0.4    -   -   -   -  9.1   4.1    9    9.12    31
.)P. Superintenet                             7   7   -   -   -   -    14   b677&.5.1 0.1   -   -   -                  -9.2    91    a    0.12    37
*0 ktawava                        77?- -                       1 4    #-'?Z.104.10.1        -- -- -0 L1    9.1    0    0L12    WI
SacssI7gv,sIAudt.                            13   3   A   A6         -    20       4..W     440.1 0.00 0.0   - -  3.2   6.           3      IZ    WI
St*&-lu1ot                                   13   3   O   a          -    23     4.M95.   0.1 0.0 0.6 0.6          -  0.2   9.1    0    9.22    WI
Oft.,,                                       21   7   - - - -    20                5232.5 0.30.0               -  -    LO9  6.1    9    9.32    IV
030u54"                                      47 - -              - -      - -42    221.25  0.0                  -9.9 L    6.1    0    0.12   VWI
1*TOWhI  istrict attic"                                                                       0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 - -69
4. uMW Off ices
Raw  s07lte                                  21   I   5   I   3   -    4Q    6,904.75 0.20.0 0.30.10.2    - 9.4   9.2    9    9.1Z    IV
UD IIeO                                       6   3   2   2   5   -    17          4,119  O 0.39.0.004h0.6    -0.1    0.1    3    0.12    31
Luclerk                                      11   2   3   7   3   -    30          4.179  0.1 9.00.9040.0L         - 0.2    9.1    0    0.12       WI
AUIIIO.                                      113 5  13  24  24   -    It          52.25  10.  0.@  0.0 0.o  0.4   -  9.1   9.1    0    0.12    WI
0*b-Mel 111oas, wrfit"                                                                        3.3 0.1 0.1  0.1 0.2   -  37
S. 7Fl3 WAIT
rOnwet.                                      706322132    - -   2X    4.30.215 LI3040.50.2    -   -2.3   0.1    t    0.12    WI
Sob-7.1    7111. STAFF                                                                       0.   .   .   .3   --    1.)
S*-l.3. FII137m                                                                                 2.1  .1.  0.  LS 9.    -  34
Total lNI2WW   9011                                                                               4.0 36.1 MI. 1IL5  2.1 -23.
eaa. - -- --



Vo                                                                                         Um rz~ Elc r*w  t-I
* efl     VI e   ri   Vs e n   -.I1 1 I-                                                                 i-i.
a s w                  *W re    mr  a,  W&        itr :  ns   wu            m  :tUC  -
ret   sr  reV  I  e'a rg  i re  iw ig                                                                      SAW  Aim *- -
in    p     fr sr       as Vt I, ra M.e i-        umL   eca              i D    *   St           -               ..eg    _
Ag   p   wegeVgC gire eVree                    ggehi   CU   eele.            LI-eg
La    re    _r  in    r  r   n    rv fr   r        wA  a IHX rr *  **   Tt- c
Am    re    grime r.e  r.  re re We  ..               i*i rtf. *   I                            t*  C  I*
M    r'e   gre  g          re rL   cf. rre  1.e   ilbigt '. *  ge                                                       A r  IC 
Ag   i.     ge f.   .  i  i  i. r         i.e -      i*    Li it *r re Pe       I a         
'a    to    W.        rer  r r    rr    r         tfrt           *1IIfJ*t_a
An   1i     I   W's r  .e  Wee re r.  reef        Cao  on                    ;I   .  .  .  .  . 
IVe s      e"I   I rg  -t Mrse   ilel  Li                                                    Ma il- 
VI    Pm   Wo re  re re   e      e r     r    er ...   .    i I. I C I C      -                              ghr   tir
am  ri                               i.e e.e-    ggrmt*i   c -3  i  a                                    W -  -u _ - ..'
A    r      ri.  e*   eW      . ri        ;V e ettia  ;ri        D  D       C' t
r  4             *r* re       rfir IV` r" "  tre  v  rdIPlTt  St   n. Ttt  Tl       V T" _  _
am  co    Ile  e WC  We rie TV  "We iL                                                           elifr  ileif igCIIi.IC
am  re    me  Is   Ve  re  C  ri.  i.e i.  sI     S -ci          e  C     I       I                                       i _
ra    .   .et   111,1 I-i  W-gee-gs-egre  so"t    ii   gleeII  Ij IeeM
re r             In  eI nr.  Ver          i.n   re e-erbSl a u   C M A  l        A i  irr
,    r      t-- rg  .e  ge : g r  re re       t  C.,  `1c    to ib  U       C I     -                                'T 
_   r  rr                                   elm       at   Ctes iI r    ci  g   e               er    i. t         eeee..g
,_em, re     .e       i - ic  eI.ie  ir e  gn.re ii eIC"T  ai   I     II    I -     i                                  _
i.    ii   re  I.e  .re ItT rie C.e i-.  I.  _iC      t   I       C C     t C *
"I z.!L" =e. I.eeee.e-SP-MM-                 a          e.       .   arnP_4
'a     a   stv       i.   rlge re r-. re                                      ~ggn
"       z  IVt   rer rT 0 tilr   11 V   *'l   fT   1_ -
n   *  .         v.. re  - '   .e.*- rie rie r - r iua "le   -  tT C Ii aU   ie r
_ i                    te tg-e-gZripgs-gieg-*    5.3   g            s   gg rt f
a S         i    .e    re IV i  re re   e   r-e V           C    * * *  I       t C   IA.
_T C   g.ee- I.ei.eI.eI- g iW n       -e rI           I     l i t             i                 Cs
in  6   eV    I t'o re t'o rt                9 I   I
WCii.  i.e VI i. t VIi                                                              gC.3. ieej eeeig1. 1.  I  m
=T e        g   g.e 're *-i *i *i 1e   i*i r iAi .l                     .: ii                                        le *c  enP
i.    re   We r1 ii iui                                                             l       Ow Sli
V *         * *s   s  -  rec                      wen           Cs a    cI                     r   f i  *-
n~~~~~~~"  !!Z  V, sr  r         rg V1  r,                                                          -.M tY oDs X   twsvv
i  Irs.  iC  IN  Li r.e .eV t.e e.    %ii       Kga         ,g       f                               -
- -~~~~~~~ r   * >                             t t               t *t                       4
m    $  $   f       r  rr  e   Ve ro **" re`          csD             DDD                                        1
in               g.e  all toe re re v* re re r'ZgiUsi.B  IC tt .                * c                                   t Vsd
u    e      e   UIe  rt -        rreWe rI  re   re ar"o    N do Wr.  .3 C" Ci iC   *
_    e      e   g.e  P   I.eg.e  . ie eIn  rs    its re  re3r  c ram  as   . c it .  . n .  .
U    C           C.  "- 1ig-r0-. Ct   I-f ti iiiNeei
*                     I, cn   n  r fe   re I      Ir w rs        e  ci i  i  e ff  a                             _
U    *      e   m.e  i     .SsIi-*- r nl r C .e% .1        .N1   _ C _ .            i
_~ e        e   g.e  c-i f e g-eg-e          . re eV re   i' l   * * 1 *1 *IN    I t
Cea   -tel I 
il 1    gC  g.se g.e1 CiIPe                                                       eeiP.-.q Ie-a."
.     e    re ri e ree   i C-c             L    L                                              _         _
=    e      e   g.eee n     -IIeg re  "   ra W,        r - rlle   ni   IC e                                          a i*
isU         0    W         . e  g   g.eiI...e .ege-ie-   Li-i-  9A  L e     .   L .   .                             i-eo
I    e      e   We i.e        Ilee 1-g r- eee v v        Iiat         t         i  I                             V--
_4          i     v  I.i  .eV   re                UVs  f    De s I * IC         i  C                           e a.*  iW
r4           r   rV I's eV   rro rr rn   rCtn,1    n   IXr
In   i      g   g.e  i-r   W      r e    r re  e   eeb i          C                                            et-l ep; r  -
_                I r ge  re   Ci  re "e      ri  q      l  n    -  :  :  t  :  i                             -_-    J.
U    *      e   fe - e  pge-gpgc-e Cr.  C rs rI                           I  C                                           J *   L
_ W g fe gr   We re .                                 t                    n t e e  t _-m__
l o         e    e UV  9-c  r- e   Vei Vgrere n  n  n   rt           II         t  I                                     U
_    e      e   *7e  ic  n           s - re  re Cr    & r          I                                       .1r :1  e:   I  i **1
U~    ~ i7 el ge  i.ee-eeeeg                rn-i      i    i  eC   Ii 
_    e      g   gs  r.  g-g-eie,- re r  ri 86   r   cl  LI.  *       I  C I    C  I
U    e      e rr-  Li eesreg e-g-    E-Urf_*g   l    I  i   I  i  3 
_ " @ B ~rt M  ro  r re rrrv     
e          g   ge  i   i  g  s  i.e  .e ge  f *3  *    I    I                  I                                  V . -    i
in               lev  .e  eV I  re  re  Weee      -re-*    I    Ie            I                                     - I
_    i      i   fre  ii  s-i g              gere V rf r   W.c  r  re st  I n     :     t    i   i S   C
_ i         i   g.e  r           e:eWV r e re    i  ere  rWrmea   ' I   e I  e  e  e                               ligi
14                        WS rr rrrr  t        re  21W 1                                                             _4
?    e      e   gre  re  r.C e  C-g                                              r                                    -. n   :    i  i   I  a i  - U
:                                     W  B*r          r"  Iv  rWe_"  * 1  1. "       | t 
a    .    e  r.W.  W                 r eW e iW        i  ia  * .   I      i  i                                 e  o
I    e      C   .3.e       n  e e ige r re  Crn.i    *    I  eII r e  r             I-
_    a                      . re rgc,: eeee           N  r       e   ii    i *                                       e P"_
U    e      g   g.e  i.e  ge e-eg-C-ee  r*i.    g    i  I  i  i  e  e                                            IiIAi.i
_    i      i   g.e ri    r  rf r.  e g-gegeeg-eg-eg-       LI Ir       C L     I                                        ,
_    a           W mr rf  r                  e r                 C  I  i  I  e  I
_ *              w. f.  W.* r.e re  i..e r.e   Wr*l  *         W,   1       C  3  1                         adWCeldt A
_           i   all  re W&er.e  i re   re i  1-lA: LI:: t L                                                              gL
_    i      i    f    .e  re   e  reV  re   re rf      - s      *    e      e       e_
_ u |  a-   e  rw  re    rwe "  e .e  ee     "g      r     *       1        I    I                 iitieiOW
_ e         e   ge  .re  i.  pg rp   e  re r                                                                       P"       a w.r__ f
_ e         g   g-e  re         rei   re I'l We  ie1re           Zi       i  I  e  C                         II   1-".-
_                 V  ri i.e r   reWe re we   r cWing    ae *             a t        I I  I                          nei-
_                 v    re  e  eV      -eew Ww re. U.`       .      I C Z    I  I  I                        P*'1.
_    i      i   ge Irv    "    r-ee rggre re   eiIt   et   Z          II          I                          d          -
w w w frz"I"W   re We  r, Wrre  "Il                             r1                        *        Pn    P  I -I  |- f
u   @ e     gr   ggeei.e           grger- eV-We..a r         r    .                 C :-
w & @ fr r *s r re r " fe 1           t           9     tII                               _    - B.
"m               o r: re W     e      r1  W. Ir.     C      1                                                        ~%  s** '
0% *-  w o  e    re   ra  r  f re           _r ba           Ia         C ;   I                      _4_@
_2  " r                  re re Inr  r    r a       .   8 @rt     I      X       [MI                          C
c.-I~~~~~~_
I-X_U                                                                                                        iii
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~in   -i



AIMNEX 3
-51-                                                    TablT 5-a
IVAU 91CU R=lW CTW
TaNb 103. LUE KM RMT*TnM
alli Cr.t Tab
tdas Irctfiu. C-m.doso
bit  o.t                                     Cara. FW. . sms  SWN
bit  1964 1i IV 3U      7  16   16 9 TotU     t_J)  1934 i                V 196 1917 9M  IN  Totl bt.e E c. TaK    OcmIt
1. jalm  cwIS
0. fTOUS  B1ULIWN
I. Cniw  P_atimo
Labor                                                 100 20   360 31C   300   360 1.5         260.7  0.3 0.7  1.1 1.2 1.3  1.3  5.   05    0               0  PLIES
nstoriflI                                             100 230  304 30    300   300 I.          103.ee   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.  0.0 0.e   0.2  0.15 0.J          0.47  PiB
Tramwort                                                -        -    -    -  -    --                                                  -  0.15  e           o  PLTi
-Th  Caoiiao 1,amt.tms                                                                                     03  0.7J  1.2  1.2  1.3  1.    .2
2. E. sradis Plmtati_
Labr                                                  2C  40  UO  m       .6    2     4.6lA   5.101.25   .1 2.4  30  5S  7.3 7.7 27.?  0.15    0            0  PB
4T.iAWs                                               32   400 60 00  b         2     4e40e   IC31  0.0  0.0  0.1 0.1 0.?  0.2  O.A  6.s 0.25            6a7  PU
Tr,mmwt                                               2e  4t0  tO  te  2.600 310  4.000    77.71  0.  0.0 0.3  .1 0.1 0.1  O.   0.s  0.2                   0  PLS
W*TvW  1. srvAs P1.1013mw                                                                                  1.2 2.5  4.0 S.7  7.6 3.0 20.9
J. E. toroico.rr   . anuciiiflus Pltsuom
LAW                                                   200 4   6000    1 KO  0   1.000 4.600   3.55   0.3  1.7  2.7  3.3  54  5.4  19.5  0.e5    0           6  KiB
atorls                                                200 400  M   3    JN   1.600  4-000   103.5L    0   0.0 0.1 0.L  0.  0.2  0.6  L05  .2S    0.7   PUB
Trawrt                                                2tO  ee40      NO I00   e1 e    04.60   7n.7n1  6.0 6.0 0.  0.1 0. *.1   0.3  0.4  0e5   .2           0  PLU
ub-TOWl C. ta.u 0tw    /. amgllittrors flatots                                                             0. 1. 1 2   4.0 5.  5.7  20.5
a. o., z2. nPIuut.
LAWr                                                  10  2M  J0  3c0   30   300  1.500    6421.3  0.7 1.5 2.4 2.6 23 2.9 12.9 0.                  0        0  FLUS
notolas                                               200 200 30  300   300   30 1.500   1.53   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.  0.4  04   0.15 02                    0e.7   LUB
Tr _oot                                               300 200  300 3       300   300 1.500    93.37  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.   0.2   .e5  0.2                0  PLIn
!bTol are Z. Plntatis n.7 1.6 2.5 2.7 2.6 3.  233
Toa P1417*11 ES BTa           T                                                                               3.0 6.510.5 13.6 17.1 LI  U1J
3. "UNIOT            ur
1.camel.. nluattthoo
Labor                                                   - 200 200 30    3St    3001 .200   1sS1.2    - 0.2 0.  0.6 0           0.7  2.5  6.15    0          0 e   LU
ratrls                                                  -    -    -    -     -     -      -               -    -    -    -    -    -       -  0.5    0      0      N
Trw    t                                                -    -    -    -    -      -      -               -    -    -    -    -    -       -  0.15    0     e 
aTotal Cloors    P n.      .                                                                                - 0z. 0.4 04  0. 6.7  2.5
2. C. sruao Pl3aU3.
Lab_                                                    - xe  40 e00   NO IAN  3e000  143J5    - 0.4 0.3  1.3  1.3 2.4  6A   0.15    0                      0   PUm
tderI0s                                                 -    -    -    -     -.e5    0                                                                      0   P3.0
T7p.t                                                   - 2M  40  o6    no l0ow   360          23.        - 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.e5  0.2           0   WN
S-Ttal E. gr&ds P10U0m                                                                                       - 0.4 0.3  1.3 1.0 2.4  *.7
3. E. torfuCoricum I. mwlliform F P1.oatins
Lbr                                                     - 2M0  410 600   NO  2oe 3.00    1.534            - e. 0a   1.3  1.  2.4  67  01          6        0   PLTN
Rial-s                                                     - -  -  -   -   -   -                          -  -  -  -  -  -  -                                    Po
Trwa t                                                  - 200 400 6e    SO  1         3.60    23.017    - 0.0  0.6  0.0  0.0  0.0  6.1  6.5  0.2            0    LUT
Sab-ToUl E. toroUtenlla,f .mtilitoas Plmt                                                                    - 0.4 0.  2.3  1.3 2.4  6.6
4. try 2.' nP tAlmi
Lab"r                                                   -100 23M           300   3001 200   1.76.7    -0.2 0.4  0.70.7 oJ   2.0  0.05    0                  0   PLL
a ia                                  --                                    -             -               -   -    -    -    -   -    -  0.05    *          0   PL3.
Tr  w2t -3002003 MO   NO   30 1.200    2J.07    -0.0 0.o .0 0.0 0.0   0.6  e1    0.2                                                                        0   RU
-TotI by lw  tl           im                                                                                 - 0.2 0.4  0.7 h7  0.o   2.J
5. Eai.tgi Tm'. pl_sta
LAr                                                 3.903.90   1564.6  1J.                                                      0-.15    0                 0   fT.I
Patorls                               L                                                                                              0.1S    0        0   FLu
Traowt                                              3.9103.90 2--007  0.1   -   -   -   -    -  LI   OM                                             *2     a    LT4
-Tool EaxIsId Tv" PIuAstiot                                                                                7.0                          7.0
UpTo1al  .T6TION iA0f1T                                                                                       7.0  1 I 2.4  3J  5.1 6J  2L.
ldo    U11V3  CllT                                                                                             IO1    7417.     17.5 22.1 24.4 94.1
TOW t1.0 74 12.9 17.5 22.1 24.4 94.6
1,   13  11:34



INDIA
KIERA SMCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 104. SILL ROCK   MIATIUS
Detailed Cost Table
Parmters
Totals Includirn  Cantinimnies    ---------------
Ouantitv                                   (Ruws mIllion)              P1.I
-------------------------------  Iit Cost --- ------------ Cont. Far. Itoms   Su.marv
Unit 198 15M  1 17 1901 1969 Total  (Rwuus)    1984 1905 1    197 IS  199 I         ital Rate   xc. Tax Rate Ac t
1. INIESTWIN  COSTS
A. PLANTATION ESTAILISHIIElT
Labor                              50  100  150  200 250  250  I,00    3M56535   0.2  0,4  0.7  1.0  1.3  14   4,9  0.05    0             0  PLTES
materials                          50  100  150  200  250 250  1000    103.551   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.   0.1  0.05  0.2S         007  PLTES
Transport                          50  100  150 200  250  250  19000      77,796   0,0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1   0,05  0.2           0  PLIES
Sub-Total PLANTATIO ESTAI ISlII                                                       0.2  0.4  0.7  1.0  1.3  .4  5.l
B. PWATATION NAJMEIENT
........ ...... ..........__
LabOr                               -  50  100  150 200 250    750    1,584.6        - O.l 0.2  03 O.5 06   1.7 0.05             0       0   ILTN
Iaterials                                                     -- -                             - - - -  - 005  0   0 PLTh
Tr ort                              -  so  100  ISO  200  250   750       28.007     - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.05   0.2         0    PLTh                            J!I
Sb-Tatal PLANTATION H EEMNT                                                             - 0.1  0.2  0.3 0.5  0.6   1.7
Total IISTN WCSTS                                                                        0.2  0.5  0.9  1.3  1.6  2.0  6.8
===         2 3282 2 2222 8=3222r=
Total                                                                                     0.2  0.5  0,9  1,3  1,8  2.0  6.8
July -  ------------------------  -  ----  - -------------------  -  ------. 1 4  11:36-- --- ----.- ---... ... ...
JUlY 90 1984 11:36



INDIA
KER&A SW ItL FOKSTRY PROCT
Table 105. STRIP PLMIATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
Paeawetrs
Totals Ircludiri rantirsneies       ------------------------
guantitv                                      (RureB  mill ion)            Phsw.
-------------------                     ilt Cost  -----------------------------------  rat. Fr,   mross   Summrsr
Unit  1984 185 1986 1987 19   19   Total   (Ruees)   14 11M5  986 1"7 1988 198  Total Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Acount
,.33  -:=3 :ams ais= 3.35 s.un .. sun  m ans: *un:::  lIEU 5538 nsa 133x  3353 33 S     2.-2   33.... 283.. 33    8 , 13gamo  85"3as
I, INWSTNENT COSTS
A. PFANTATION ESTAKISWNT
Labor                                50  100  200  400  500  750  2,000    3,294.3   0.2  0.4  0.8  1.8  2.4  3.7   9.3  005          0         0   PLTES
materials                            50  100  200  400  500  750  7,000    103l551   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.3   0.05  0.25          0.07   PLIES
Transport                            50  500  200  400  500  750  29000    140.036   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.2   0.4   0.05   0.2             0   PLTES
Sub-Total PLANTATION ESTABLISHNENT                                                        0.2  0.4  0,9  1.9  2.5  4.0  10,0
D. PLANTATION MANAGEMENT
....... .......... - - - - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I 
Labor                                     50  100  200  400  500  1.5        14376,1     -  0.1  0.2  0.4  0.8  1.0   2.5   0.05       0         0    PLTH
materlals                                   -    -    -    -    -                              -    -    -    -           -   0.05     0         0    PLTH                                 m x
Transport                             -   50  100  200  400  500  1.250       40455      -  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.    0.1   0105   0,2           0    PLTH                                 e
Sub-Total PLANTATION MNACCIT                                                                 -  0.1  0.2  0.4  0.9  l.l   2.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                       0.2  0.5  1.1  2.3  3.3  5.1  12.5
Munss  zz ::o sums - ns m1n ins::
Total                                                                                         0,2  0.5  1.1  2.3  3.3  5.1  12.5
8338 338U Ia a: mass Emmass s11: ma
Julv 9. 1994 11?37



KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PIJECT
Table 106. TRIMA FUELVOOD LANTATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
Pratsetes
Totals Includirw Continrecies      ........................
Auantitv                                    (Rups Million)               Phsw
-----------------------------------  thit Cost -----------------------------------  CAnt. For.  6ross   Smarv
Unit  194 1995 19   1987 IS99  Im   Total   (Runes)  1284 195 1986 1997 1999 1999 Tutal Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Accotmt
mass  na aa cuss s    aga gaas mz:: mama S:  a::a:::::    *uasas aa mama : aa ::m: a maca :::= 2  a2232  333a3 33a8:22   1310333
1. INVESTMENT coSTS
A. PLANTATION ESTAtLISHMENT
Labor                              100  200  300  400  500 500  2M000   3,565.35   0.4  0.6  1.3  1.9  2.6  2.7   9.7   0.05        0        0   PLIES
materials                          100  200  300  400  500  500  29000    103.551   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.3  0.05  0.25        0.07   PLTES
Transort                           100  200  300  40   500  500  2.000      77.9    ,O  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.1   0.2   0.05   0.2           0   PLTES
Sub-Total PLANTATION ESTAELIS&IIENT                                                     0,4  0.9  1.4  2a0  2.7  2,8  20.2
9B  PLANTATION IWACEIIENT
Labor                                -  100  200 150  200  250    900    1070907       -  0,2 0.4 0.3  0.5  0.6   2.1  0.05         0        0    PLTI
Materials                                  -    - -    -    -      -           -             -    -    -    -    -     -   0.05     0         0    PLTN
Transort                             -  100  200  150  200  250    900      28,007      -  0.0  0.0  O.0  0.0 0,0   0.0  O0S5  0.2           0    PLTI                                 w
Sub-Total PLANTATIONI MNAGElENI                                                           -  0.2  0 4 0.4  0i 5 07   2 1                                                                     x
Total INVESTliENT COSTS                                                                    0.4  lo 1  1.  2.4  3 2 J 5   2.
zzz-                        .  ... ras asaw
Total                                                                                       0 4 i11,1    2.44  3. 2 * 3 S12.
:-:: mama _::= a=za zata mama su===
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_____ ------------------------_____
July 9i 1984 11:37



INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Table 107. TRIBAL MEDICIMAL PILOT SCIENE
Detailed Cost Table
Parameters
Totuls Including Cantinaeic'ies      ---------------
guantitv                                       (Rupees Million)              Ph1w
-----------------------------------  Unit C45t  -----------------------------------  Cont, For.   Gross   Sumarv
Unit  1984 1905 1986 1987 1918 199 Total  (Rupes)   1984 1915 1986 1M87 1988 1989 Total  Rate  Exch. Tax Rate kcount
.33  3Z33 3=3= r::: Zama 3333 Can3  3-   3Z3333L33   3333 3333 33 333 3               -:: 3:::Va a-- :zz       =::: :::::::
1. IWVESTMENT COSTS
A. PLANTATION ESTABLISHHENT
Labor                                  5   10   15   20   25   25   100    5,129.1   0.0  0.1  0.1  0.1  0,2  0.2   0.7  005             0         0   PLTES
materials                              5   10   15   20   25   25   100  1,118,352   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.2   0.05  0.25             0.07   PLTES
Transport                              - - - - - -  -- 0.05  0    0 PLTES
Sub-Total PLANTATION ESTABLISIENT                                                           O.O  Ol  Ol  0,?  0.2  0.2   0,9                                                                    |*|
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        OO  01  0.1  02  0.2  02   0.                                                                       co w
Total                                                                                           O.O  Ol  O.l  0.2  0,2  0,2   0.9
:=r_ Z-:: 194   Zama :az   Rasa  *tn
u1v 99 198    ll:



INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FWRESTRY PROJECT
Table 108. PLANTATIOt PROTECTION
Detailed Cost Table
Pareters
Totals Including ContirMencies      ----------------------------
luantitY                                              (Ripe   Nillion)              Ph1.
-----------------------------------         -           - -Iit O   --------- ------                         Ct. er-.   6rDSS   Su.naiv              0
UInit   1914   1985   19P6  1987    199    1989  Total    (Ruees)   1984 1985 1986 1987 199 1M   Total Rate  ExCh. Tax Rate Accowit
1. INVESTMENT COSrS
A. PLANTATION ESTABLISHIENT
All Plantations /a  /b         ha      4,755  6.365  8,830  12,050  20,050        -  52.050       62.55   0.3  0.5  0.7  1.0  1.9    -   4o3   0.05        0         0   PLTES
Fenc-ng tC                   meters   1.500  3000  4,600   6,000   7.200  7,900  30,100          18.739   0.0  0.1  0.1  0.2  0,2  0.2  O.    0.05  0.05          0.1  PLTES
Sub-Total PLMATATION ESTAILISHMENT                                                                            0.4  0.5  0.8  1.2  2,0  0.2   5.1
Total INVESThENT COSTS                                                                                           0.4  0.5  0.8  1,2  2.0  0.2   5.1
Total                                                                                                             0.4  0.5  0.8  1.2  2,0  0.2   5.1
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~g .:s .. _
;a  Including Yomg Plantations at the befinnirn  Ot the ProJeCt P RS 3950 Per ha.
/b 1 3 sandaustlhalear.
/c Assunes 200 meters per ha.
---------                                                                                                                                                       -      -  _  _ -  ,_ -  _ - _  - _   - __  _
JUIY 9, 1984 11138



-5?-                                                               ANNEX 3
Table 10
1Iai
Ime  S&iiL FiK i  FROUECT
labIa 199. 0195194 AND PULICtV
Detailed Cast Table
Parameters
Totals Iirludaaa Cmtau'rmias
tadtity                                      Itwasst 0111mm)            Pin.
- -    --  Unit Cast  -- --                         ---  rant. fur.  Grass  Summary
W.Rit 1994 195 196 199" 1 19190 Totalu   (Mirns)   1994 190  1916 19? 299  1939 Tetal Rats Cash. Tax Rate Accost
I. IIWESDEMT COSTS
". VEHICLES
.4m it"                            I    -          -     -1  -    I   *1d?0.5   0.2                          -  0.1   0.3  0.2          0    WEV
Publicity Van                                  3              -               3     155.59    0.5   -     -    - - -        0.5   0.2  0.2          0    WVE
Sub-Total **IOIIMS                                                                              0.6    -     -    -    - -  0.6
I. EQUIPMENT
&AuDi-lisual                                                  -          -                        0   - -- .I   -    -   -    -  0.1   0.1  0.2    0.25    WVE
Cassette P2mev And Slide Projaclar                            -          - -. -   -   -    - -0.1..                 .    .      0.1 0.14.5    0.15    WV
Generator                                     I                        -    9-    25.412.!  0.2    - -         -    - -  0.2   0.1  0435    0.15    IWV
Films                                          - - -          -    - -       -               0.1  0.1  0.1  0.3  0.2  0.2   0.5   0.2  0.5    0.35    WVf
Caera ad kccssories                                       - -                 -              0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.2   0.1  0465    0.15    WVf
Public Ardss Suste                           14               -              2       4  201035   0.2 -    -    - -   -  0.2   0.1  0.65    0.15           WVE
Vzdu Camera                                    I   -     -    -    - -    1          30.495   0.0    -    - -       - -  0.0   0.2  0.65    0.35    WVE
TEA  nd limiter                                I              -               2      30,495   0.0             -             0.0   0.1  0.65    0.35    WVE
5th-Thts) tHDINS?                                                                               0.6  0.4  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.0
C. FLIRNITURE
KrV                                            -    I   -   -    -    -       2   7,8319.75    -0.0         -   --            -0.0  0.1    0    0.12    WV
Public Relations Officer                      -   I      -        -    -      1   6,994.35     - 0.0     - -   -    -       0.0    0.1     0    0.12      WVF
Artzst.flhutogaraper                          -    I     - -       -    -    1       7.506     - 0.0    -   -   -    -  0.0   0.1          0    0.12      WV
Draftsmanm-                                            - I             -          6.93.r5,-       0       -    -    - -0.0    0.1          0    0.12    WV
Proact iuuot                                   -    I    -                           4.120     - 0.0    -    -   -   -  0.0   0.1    0    0.12    WV
Slam-twirst                                   -    I   -   -    -    -        I    4r7M.5      - 0.0    -   -    -    -  0.0   0.1         0    0.22      WV
LO Clark                                      -    3   -   -    -    -    1          4.170     -0.0    -   -    -    -  0.0   0.1          0    0.22    vEr
Attaindr                                      -    I   -   -    -    -        1     121.35     -0.0    --         --     -0.0      0.2     0    0.22    WVf
braver                                         -   4   4    4    4    4   20        521.25        0.O 0.008.0  0.0O0.0   0.0   0.2         0    0.22      WV
Sub-Total FIAITIXE                                                                                -   .1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1
D. MitTs!,
PI*lcattv Cesultant. Lum Ses                     I       1    1   -I         4    26.062.5  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    -   -  0.1   0.05    0            0    SAt
Sub-Total COSLTMIT                                                                              0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0    -   -   0.3
Total I*9WEHIIE    COST                                                                            1.3  0.5  0.2  0.2  0.2 0.2   2.6
II. RtECIRET =OTS
A. STAFF SALARtES
AD                                            3    I   a   1        12    6        25.020   M.0@0.@0.@ 0.0 0.0@0.0   0.2   0.05    0               0     Si.
Public Relations Officer                      I    1    1   I   1    1    6  10.368.063   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1   0.05        0        0     SM.
Artastlflmntsraeher                           I   1    1   I    1   1    6   17,201.25   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1   0.05        0        0    SOL
Draftsman                                     1   I    1    I   I   1    6         14,595   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.O 0.0 0.0   0.1   0.05          0        0    54.
Prjactaouist                                 I    1   I    I    1   1    6  10,946.35  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1   a.05          0        0    SAL
Staso-lwpist                                 I    1    1    3   1    1    6    15.637.!  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   0.1   0.05        0        0    SAL
LOtlerk                                       I    I    I    I    1   1    6   YM.73.1   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0   0.2  0.05          0        0    SM.
Attanda r                                    I    2   I    1   1    1    6    9.312.5   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.O 0.0 0.0   0.2   0.05              0        0    SAL.
i vr-r                         ~~~~~4    4    4   4    4   4    24    9,302.5   0.0 0.00.0 0.l 0.l0.1   0.1   0.05           0        0    SAL
Sub-7otal STAFF SALMZ:ES                                                                       0.?  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   1.2
M. IsAYE ALOAmNCES
C0                                           1   1    2   I    I   I    6          10.425   0.MO0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05            0        0     SM.
Public Relations officer                     I    2    1   1    1    I    4        10.425   0.9  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.2   0.0  0.05       0        0     SAL
Sub-Total 7nsE  ALLWMCE                                                                        0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0   Rh)
C. Vlehicle fkerataru Costs
260JIM3                                      I   I    I   I   1    1    6          51400   0.l 0.1 0.1 0. 0.l 0.1   0.4 0.05  0.2                0.2   VW
Patucit.a Tans                                1   3    3   3   3    3    10        25.m0   0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1  0.1   0.6  0.05   0.2        0.2   VWM
Sub-Total W.iecle Deeratiri Costs                                                              0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2   2.0
Total Krjfsj  CMhS                                                                                 0.3  0.3  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4   2.3
333- --33333--33-- 35    --3
Total                                                                                               1.6  0.01 0.6 0.6  0.6  0.7   4.9
.kulht 90' ti:i' 2



l  xi      SE8ESS................                                                  W;.Wt;WtW;k;YEEES                                       ES
-1-l   i   tj   oooooooooooooooo   _"e   eeeeqqooqee4qeee                @o96o                  o@@@9             @~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g t
5;   t   ij   ecovesoooe^4eeee   voqe  sesN0a  qee             o_e^*o_oee-eee-o                         Ooe  o_e        evo
leJ4! ~          3                33         33o330330                   3eevow33ee8'8io,B88                                       .6
j{l ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ .e--tqqo@!  .^3!  .q2e^6;*3 .Se;zoeg3;eg:" .";S-q ."t! . . . .
|  1E                 1                                 e;   ef      |@@|@|@B@||^aove_o   |e                                      |   e  - 
5~~~ . . . . . . . . . . .                       . . . . . . . . . . .                                     e        3eoo    c
U~~ ~ E.        .    .   .   .   .   .      .   .    . f  .      . j            s @oee'ge       |ffS            ' S4          SO"            e.2eO          e    f    . .   .   .    .   .   .    .   -;
l~~~~~~ .il .@I eo .o .||""| .| .                                                             .  e . . . . . .      O             11      Ct eVI|3 
i3i .... !. . . . . .. . ..           ,                         . ... ... . . . ........                  . . . .. ......._  ........_...____...
X a X X 3 a   s   1 ga1
iX                                                 |1                                               llblbl~~~~~~~~~J



ANNEX 3
_59_                                           Table 11 (cont.)
11. REEEIiT COSTS
A. STAFF SLIES
ACF (Extenimon and Publicity                         -   I   I   1   1   1    5           25v020    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05    0              0    SAL
ACF (Trainins Coordimator)                           -   I   I   I   I   1    5           25.020    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05    0              0    SAL
Intructor                                            -   3   3   3   3   3   15    17,222.5    - 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1  0.4  0.0!               o 0      0    SAL
Forester                                             -   2   7   2   2   2   IC   20,946.25    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0                   0    SAL
IID Clerks                                           -   2   2   2   2   2   10           124510    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05    0              0    SAL
ID TIrists                                           -   2   2   2   2   2   10    9,903.75    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0                  0    SAL
Stwa-TYeIst                                          -   I   I   I   I   1    5    15,637.5    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0                  0    sAL
Prjectiowist/StorekL.per                             -   I   I   I   I   1    5         1,467.5    - 0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0            0    SAL
Librarin                                             -   I   I   I   I   1    5   10,946.25    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0                  0    SAL
Drivrr                                               -   2   2   2   2   2   10          9.312.5    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0              0    SAL
kttwsdr                                              -   4   4   4  4    4   20          9I302.5    - 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1  0.3  0.05    0              0    SAL
PMn                                                  -   4  4    4   4   4   20            9.340    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1  0.2  0.05    0              0    SAL
PTn S .er                                                 I   I   I   I   1    5           4,170    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0o.  0.05    0              o    SAL
Kitchen Asst.                                        -   I 1   1   I   1    5              8,340    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0              0    SAL
lan   Officr                                         -   2   2   2   2   2   10    17,72.5    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.2  0.1  0.2  0.05    0                  0    SAL
LD Twpst                                             -   I   1I         I   I    5       MU,93.75    - 0.o 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0             0    SAL
LD Clerk                                             -   I   I   I   I   1    5    9,903.75    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0                   0    SAL
Drivtr                                               -   1 I   1   1   1    5            9.302.5    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.0j    0              0    SAL
Sub-Total STAFF SALARIES                                                                               - 0.4 0.5  0.5  0.5 0.6  2.5
B. TRPAI. ALLOWAlCES
ACF                                                  -   I   1   1   1 l          5       10.425    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1  0.05    0               0    SAL
Trainul Coordinator                                  -   I   I   I   I   1    5           10.425    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05    0             0    SAL
Instructor                                           -   3   3   3   3   3   15    2,606.25    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0   0.1  0.05    0                  0    SAL
Ra:r   ficer                                         -   2   2   2   2   2    10    2,60.25    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05    0                   0    SAL
Forester                                             -   2   2   2   2   2    20    1,563.75    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05    0                  0    SAL
Sub-Total TRiWEL ILLUIIIdUS                                                                            - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1  0.2
C. Vehicle tbrating Costs
Nlinibus                                             1   I   I   I           1    &       25.v0    0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05  0.2         0.2  VEWP
Truck                                                     I   I   I   I   I    6          35.224  0.0 0.0o  .0 0.0  .0.l   0.3  0.05  0.2            0.2  9W1
21 JeeI   I   I   1    6                                                                  17.62  0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05  0.2             0.2  WIGP
Sub-Total Vehicle Overatinc Cosk                                                                     0.1  0.1 0.1  0.1  0.1 0.1  0.6
D. IUILDIII NAIITEIACE
Lecture Hall                                         -   3   3   3   3   3   15   94326.444    - 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05 0.05                0.1    MIT
S inrr RoW                                          -   I   I   I   I   1    5   6f246.333    - 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05 0.05               0.1   RNT
Readius Rum                                          -   I   I   I   I   1    5   8329.444    - 0.0 0.0 0.00 .0  0.0 0.10   .os 0.05                 0.2    BHT
Library                                              -   I   I   1   1   1    5   0,329.444    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0  0.2  0.05 0.05                 0.2    NIT
AFs                                                  -   2   2   2   2   2   10    4,684.75    - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1  0.05 0.05                  0.1   MNT
Rangrs                                               -   -   5   5   5   5   20   3.903.959         -   - 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05 0.05          0.1    oIT
Nhers I                                              -   -  20  jo  10  10   40   2.030.059    -   - 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05 0.5                0.1   INIT
Onrs IT                                              -   -  10  10  10  10   40          1,873.9    -   - 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05 0.05           0.1   MNT
Visitors Drators                                     -   I   I   I   I   1    5  10.410.556    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05 0.05                0.1    NIT
Dining Kall Plus Kitchen                             -   I   1   1   1   1    5   80329.444    - 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.1  0.05 0.05               0.1   MNT
Cm_onrFilities                                       -   I   I   I   I   1    5   1 249.267    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05 0.05                0.2    NIT
Store                                                -   I   I   I   I   1    5   4.164.222    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05 0.05                0.1    NIT
Social Forestry IMuse,                               -   I   I   I   I   1    5   6o246.333    - 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05 0.05               0.1    NT
Carags                                               -   I   I   I   I   1    5   2#186.217    - 0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0 0.0  0.0  0.05 0.05                0.1   rNT
Sub-Total 3U1LD.Il6 IIAINTENMCE                                                                        - 0.1 0.2  0.2  0.2 0.2  0.9
Total  WIRENT COSTS                                                                                      0.1  0.7 0.3  0.9 0.9 1.0  4.3
* ut. DE  .lE  *.  utE  nEt...... fltE
TOtal                                                                                                    10.3 12.8 7.9  2.4 2.5 7.6 33.6
MY 'o ,194  11:41



INDIA
KEkAA SOCIAL FoRESTRY PROiCT
Table 111. RESEARCH MID SlUDIES
Detailed Cost Table
Parnetrs
Totals Including Contirsencies     ------------
Qwntits                                      (Rinses hillion)            Phyw ,
------  ni rt ----------------------l----------- rAnt. For. Gross Siamt
Lhint    1984 195 1986 1     1909 1999 Total  (RuPfs)   1184 1295 1986 1987 IMl 199 Total Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Accmmt
==::::   =: ::==  3tS3== sass gunS                  __w nn333   SuES  *__=3 3    us  :3:: a:::: u:::__  3333  ::::: 3333fluL Susan.
1. INESTRENT COSTS
A. WRAL  RESEACH                    luw suN     I    I    I    I    I    1    6    125.100   01  O.1  0.2  0,2 0.    2  0.2   10   0.05      0         0     RES
9. WOO)D S1WLPY AN1 DEMAND STUDY    lump sun     I    I    -    -    -    -     2    104v250   0.1  0.1    -   -    -    -   0.2   0.05       0         0     RES
C. N I E Plus Other               lIsp SUN       I    I    1    1    I    1    6    104.250   0.1  0.1  0,1  0.1  01  0,2   0.9  0.05        0         0     RES
0. FORESTRY RESEARCH CONULTANT    lusp sum       I         -    -    -   -      2     52.125   0.1  0.1    -    -    -    -   0.1   0.05      0        0      RES
Total INWSTNENT COSTS                                                                             0.4  0.5  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   2.1
Total                                                                                              0.4  0.5  0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   2.1
-::- ==:: e::                 --        --- e-_
JuhA  9Y  1994  12:44                                                                                                                                                                            I



-61-
Annex 4
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ M)
Calendar                                                   Disbursement
Year     Quarter    IDA FY       Quarter      For guarter    Cumulative       Z
1984           I        FY84         III                             -          -
II                      IV             --                         -
III        FY85           I            0.4             0.4        1.2
IV                      II            0.5             0.9        2.8
1985           I        FY85         III            0.8             1.7        5.3
II                      IV            0.9             2.6        8.2
III        FY86            I           1.1             3.7       11.7
IV                      II            1.1             4.8       15.2
1986           I        FY86         III            1.2             6.0       18.9
II                      IV            1.2             7.2       22.6
III        FY87            I           1.2             8.4       26.3
IV                      II            1.1             9.5       30.0
1987           I        FY87         III            1.2            10.7       33.7
II                      IV            1.2            11.9       37.4
III        FY88            I           1.4            13.3       41.9
IV                      II            1.5            14.8       46.5
1988           I        FY88         III            1.4            16.2       51.0
II                      IV            1.5            17.7       55.5
III        FY89            I           1.4            19.1       60.0
IV                      II            1.4            20.5       64.6
1989           I        FY89         Ill            1.6            22.1       69.5
II                      IV            1.6            23.7       74.4
III        FY90           I            1.5            25.2       79.4
IV                      II            1.6            26.8       84.3
1990           I        FY90         III            1.6            28.4       89.3
II                      IV            1.6            30.0       94.2
III        FY91           I            0.9            30.9       97.1
IV                      II            0.9            31.8      100.0



-62-                     ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Prices Used in Financial and Economic Analvsis
Firewood   Small Poles  Larze Poles  Small Timber
Rs/m3      Rs/pole       Rs/pole        Rs/m3
Market Price           -         210          40            80             700
less felling,                   18           0.35          0.80          30
less handling & transport       42           0.80          1.90          70
Financial Stumpage             150          38.85         77.30         600
%      approximate:             150          39            77
Fertilizers (Rs/kg)                           5
Opportunity Cost of Lind (Rslhalyr)         200
Labor (Rs/man-day)                           20
Shadow wage rate applied to
labor wage for economic analysis            0.6
Standard Conversion factor applied
to all prices                               0.8
note 1m3-0.6t
Ij  6 m long,7.5 cm diam; F  x        x 600 x f(f-0.7)u0.0185m3/pole-55 poles/m3
or 88 poles/t
a/  8 m long,l0 cm diam;   x(') x 800 x f(f-0.7)-0.0440m3/pole-23 poles/m3
or 37 poles/t



INDIA                                                                 ANNEX 5
Table 2
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Financial Cost and Henefilt Streams
(Rs. Hillion)
Seedling
100                              ~~~~~~~~Production
-.140~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Years                                                                                                             ..... __ ..         ._       .o _.__  ___ ___,__,,_,_ ., ..... _ _ ..._.. __ _ SO  _7  _ c 
19841        33.40        1.50       12.00      44.99       10.40        2.70       10.60       70.10       0.00        0.00       000P        0.00      -70,0
852        30.90       0,60       12.10       43.80       IS.OO       3,50        9.10       71.40 '      4.00       0.00       o0oo         000       -71.40
863        14.10       0.00        2.40       16.50       17.Y0       5.180      14.10       54.30        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00      -54.30
874        14.30       4.00        2.40       24.70       21,.0       7.60       18.70       48,90       0.00        0.00        0,00       .000       -346.0
885        13.40      4C00         2.30       19,79       27.00       s.o0       21.00       78.60       000         0@00        0.00        0.00     -78.60
896        12.30       4.00        2.10       18.40       29.90       9.50       231.0       01140        0.s0       0.10        0,00        1.00     -60,40
907        0.00        4.00        04,00       4,00        0.0        4.00         .90        4,90 ,      1.40       0.40        0.00        1.00       -3.10
916        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.09        0,09         00       0o99         9.90 1    25,79        9.70        0.00       35.40       34.50
929        G.o         0.O         0.0         4.00  0      ,O. 0040              0.90 0"0O             44.40       16.90       0.00       59.30      5.40
930        0.oo         .o0        o.oo        0.00       0o00        0.00       0o.9         0.         49.90       31.40       0.20       61.50      60.60
9411        0.00       0.          0.0.00       09         0.00       0.00        00          0.901      63.0       4.70         0.40      109.70      106.N              L
9512        0.00       4.00        0.00        0.0 0       0.00       0.0               0.90  O."       207.40      57.S0        0.70      265.0       264,90 
9613        0.00       0.00        0,00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.90        0.90      291.00       62,0        0.70      361,50      340.60
9714        0.00       0.00        0.00        0:00        0,00       4.00        O.60       0o10       290.20       0.70        0.70     M260         29.60
9815       o.oo       0o00         0,00 0           !       000                 0.70 70     0.70 !     l1.4       9.40        0.70      341.70      1100
9916        0.00       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00       0.70        0.70      426.10       9.70        1.70      439.50 J    43.0
200017        0,00        0,00        000        400         0.00        0,00        0,70       0.70      59.00       16.50        2.00     529.50      526,60
0116        0.00       0.00        0           0.00        0.00       00   0      0.70        0.70 1     19,40       26.80       3.20       4.60 '    4.90
0219        400        0,00 4t00               0.0         0.00       4.00        0.70        0.70 1    2J.70       3M.10        3.20       62UG  I    61.10
0320        0,00       0.00        0,00       0*00         0,00       0.00        0.70        0.70      112.40       4570        3.10      161,40   i10.70
0421        0.00       0.00   00         0      .00        0.00       0.09        0.70        0.70      124,10       45s.       3J10       173.10      172.40
0522        0.00       0.00        4.0          000 0.00               0.00       0.70        0.10      145.50 0400              0.70      in 2.0      171.m0
0623        9.00       0.00       o0oo        o0oo         0,oo        oo00       0.70        0.70      165.50        7.50      00.       171.00.    172.30
0724        oleo       0.00        000         0.009       0.090       .00        0.70        0.70      206.9        14.50       4.00      m40o         2.70
0825       *0.0         ,00        0.00        0.09        0.00        0.00       0.70        0.70      24.30        24.10       0.00      273.10      272.40
.0926       0.00        0.00        000        0.00        0.00        0.00        0,40        0,40,      0.00       24.40        0.00       24.0       24.20
wo7 4.00               0.00        4O.O        0.00         .         4.00   0.40        04    o.40       0.00       J3.10       o.0o       33,10      32.SO
128         0.000      0.0         0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00        0.40        0.40        1.00      41.40        0.00       4140 i     4o.e
1229        .00        0.00        0.00        0.00 i      0400       0.40       0O50         0.50       0.00       41.40        0,0        41.:41     40.9
1310       0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00,       0.00       0.00        0.40        0.0        0.00        2,30        0.00        2.JO I      1.90



INDIA                                                                       ANNEX 6
KERAI.A SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
lRs Million)
Departmental Plantation Costs
6 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b 
o f  >^/  /  5  Ngt ^tqpg~~~NX t 4.f.>t*s'/ daSR o2 ^,2t e@/ 
r  .- ....... .                                                                                      .            .            ......       .                        .  .            ..
1984           3..83          4.50         0.09         0.09          0.1?         0.02         4.36         0.44         C1,4          6.50         l.50        57.37         0.G0       -57.39
85           34.61         3.:2          0.25         0.21         0.46         0.0          4.10        10.47         0.32        13,60         3,90         67,09         0.00       -67.09
86           13.27         5.07         0,41         0.43          0.73         0.05         i.69         13.52         0.4'        18.00         7.00        58.93          0.00       -58.93
87           13.43         6.44         0,57          0.86         0.88         0.07         8.31         Io.7e         0.61        21.50        10.60        '1.82          0,00       -71.82
88           12.45         7,65         0.73          1.18         1.11         0.08        10.75         20,59         0.!0         6.80        15.00        96.39         0.00        -86.39
89           11.43         7,97         0.79          1.70         1.15         0.08        11.69         22.69         1.01        32.40        2.30         99.52          0.S0       -98,72
90            0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         4.10        11.30        20.30         35.70         1,40       -34.30          1
91            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.G0          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         4.10         C.00        20.30        24.40         28,41         4 00s
92            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0,00         0.00         0.00          0,00         4.10         0.00        8t,.10       24,20         47,50        '3.30          1
93            0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0G00         0.00         0,OO         0.00          4,00         0.00        19170        '3.70         82.20        S8.50
94            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         O.O          O.O0         0.00          0.O          3.90         0.00        19.30        23.20        1:6.60        93,40
95            0.00         0.00         0.00        O0GO           O.O0         0.00         0.00         0.00       . 3.80          0.00        18.80        22.60        467.50       444.90
96            0.00         0.00         0.00          O.O0         G.OO         0.00         0.00          O.O0         3,60         0,00        17,40        21,00        679G90       659,90
97            0.G0 0.00                0.GO 0.00                  0.00 00,0                 000          0.00          3.20         0.00        15.40        18.60       768,10        749.50
98            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00                      0.00          0,00         2.90         0.00        13.70        16,60        98'.90       H66a.30
99            0.00         0.00         0,00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          2.60         0.00       1.l0         14,20       1161,00      1146.90
2000            00.)          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0,00         0.00          2.10         0.00         9.10        11.20       1396.50      1385.30
01            0.0O         0.00         O.0O         0.00          O.00         0.OO         0.00         0.00          1.50         0.00         t.00         7.50       204,90        197.40
02            0.00         O.00         0.O0         0,00          0.00         0.00         0.30         0.00          I.50         0.00         5.80         7.30        242l30       235.00
03            0.00         O.O          0.00         0G00          0.00         0.00         0G0 0.00                   1.50         0tO.O        5.60         7.10       519,20        512.10
04            0.00         0.00         O.GO          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         1.40         0.00         5 30         6.70        369.90       363.20
05            0.00         0.00         0.0G          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         1240          0.vO        '.30          6.7t       449,60        442.90
06            O'JO         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          00           M40         0.00         5.30         670G        450.20       443.50
07            1.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          1.40         0.03         S.i3         6.70       586,60        579.90
08            0.00         0.00         0.00                       G.C00  0.00  000          0.00          0.20         1.40         G.O0         '.30         6  G,       626.20       679.'0
09           O.CC          0G0          0.00         0.00         O0QO          0.00         0.00         0.00          1.40         0.00         5.30         6 70        I9.90         13.20
10           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.O           0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00          1.30         0.00         5.30         6 60        26.53         17.S0
11           0.OO          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00   .    0.00           0.00         0.00        21.20         0.50          5.35         .50        33.1^        '.F
12            OG.00        0.00         0.00         0.00          0,00         0.00         0.00         0.00          2.10         0.00         5.30         6 40        33.10        26.70
13           0.00          0.00         0.00         0.G0          O.O          0500         0.00         0.00         1.00         0.00           6. 6.30                  1'          - 4..



-65-
ANNEX 7
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
List of Materials Available in Proiect File
(draft- asterisk shows sectious completed)
* 1. Social Forestry Project: Kerala Document No. I. Preparation Report
prepared by Kerala Forest Department, 1983.
* 2. Social Forestry Project: Kerala Document No. II. Social Forestry
Land Use Survey prepared by Kerala Forest Department, 1983.
3.  Models for Plantation on Government Land, including tables
a. Description of species
b. Large block (includes 4 submodels)
c. Small block
d. Strip
e. Tribal fuelwood
f. Tribal medicinal
4.  Nursery .perations
a. Central nurseries
b. Family and school-operated nurseries
5. Farm forestry model
* 6. Agreement reached between Social Forestry and Agricultural Extension
officials in Kerala
a. Draft proposal for working relationship between Social Forestry
and Agricultural Extension.
b. Agreement reached between Social Forestry and Agricultural
Extension
* 7. Draft proposal for training program in Social Forestry (Social
Forestry Wing and Bank appraisal mission)
* 8. Wood Supply and Demand Study: draft terms-of-reference
* 9. Detailed project cost tables
a. Organization and management
b. Plantation
(i. seeding production, ii. farm forestry seeding production,
iii. large block model, iv. small block model,
v. strip plantation model, vi. tribal fuelvood,



-66-
vii. tribal medicinal, viii. plantation protection,
ix. plantation summary)
c. Extension and Publicity
d. Training
e. Research and Studies
10.     Sample letter of understanding between Social Forestry Wing and
individual/institution conducting research study
11.     Disbursement rates of proposed project and other social forestry
projects.
12.     Environmental aspects of social forestry in Kerala



-67-
INDIA
KERAUA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
Cunent Organkzatlon of Social Foredty Wlng
Perionco                      FI                           (wo( t thuqh Iflng
ACiMkttrotjvo Slaff  PtibliCitVOffco gwimfieIn of CCF/DepoTIm.ntat
Plkrlos wlth scpklon d
40 dsWdllto Socid FisshtyWhg)
Wodd Bari-26199



-68-
INDIA
KERA SOCIAL FOREST  PROJECT
Froposd Organbtalon   Socl Foytr Wlng
r~r                                   
a  CF                  Da~~~~~~~~~~~~~Fc
VWai w-2102bdt)
k *-, Mor*-2e003



IBRD 18106
h  T.   Iwo                                                                                   77                       ANPIL 1984
hb..1                                         ~~~~INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
u-wa-  \   r. . v.m
~~~~~    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~         
NiNA<NQRV-                                     K A ARNATAKA
8\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...._'-.......
0   Proposed Regional Social                                                            TAM IL
Forestry le1odlters   -lSt                     6 ?          >         r     r _NADq T
-110  oJ rpes                                                 T Co-aftm        NADU
ILaterite Soil
iBlack Soil
>. Peat Kion SLo
Fill and Forest Soil
Alluvial Sail
ilSandy Soil 
rT Red Soil    -
Normal Rainfall (in centimeters)
=Rosiads                                                <                      i
ir    (j) Slote Capital                                                                                -   oo
*   Distict Capitols
o  Selected Towns
District Boundaries
-~~~~~~~. _'-   a. ltV '-ct  !.t. 
pafl.  Vr... kb,  If    a-  ft..0
:Oa  na
I   ovN D  I   {At
w .ercc.ns. a,                                ;W                                    0,,,,,1 r
~~_ b &nia'-.4                                                                                                           i
0        '25     50      75       1W 00             
KIiLO ETErS
* e                                   ;gO 7'soC770






