Document of
TIhe World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C R e , t
Report No. P-385 8-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMEN-DATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 30.6 MILION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
July 11, 1984
This document bas a restricted distributio  and may be used by recipients only in the performace of
their oIcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withot World Rank authorintion.



-ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 26, 1984)
US$1.00      =  Rs 11.205621
Rs 1.00      =  US$0.089
Rs 1 million =  US$89,000
The US Dollar/Rupee excbange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rste of US$1 to Rs 11.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCF  -    Chief Conservator of Forests
GOI -    Government of India
GOK  -    Government of Kerala
LCB  -    Local Competitive Bidding
MEG  -    Monitoring and Evaluation Office
SAE  -    Secretariat for Agriculture and Forests
SFW  -    Social Forestry Wing



FOR OFFICIL USE ONLY
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SDU1NAR
Borrower:               India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:            Government of Kerala (GOK).
Amount:                  SDR 30.6 million
(US$31.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
On-lending Terms:       From the Goverument of India (GOI) to the Government
of Kerala as part of Central assistance to States for
development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time. GOI would bear the foreign
exchange risk.
Proiect Description:    The project would increase supplies of fuelvood,
small tizber and poles through the establishment of
about 85,000 ha of plantations. It would also
execute a pilot program for producing medicinal
plants and strengthen the institutional capabilities
through provision for training of existing personnel;
additional staff; investment in research and addi-
tional vehicles and equipment. A wood balance study
would also be undertaken. The project faces no major
risks. However, wastage of seedlings could occur if
the Social Forestry Wing's capacity for distribution
is overstretched. The risk would be minimized by an
undertaking that GOK would not expand the seedling
distribution program without prior consultation with
the Association. Since it is intended to use the
existing agricultural extension service instead of
expanding the extension service of the Department of
Forestry, the new approach entails a risk regarding
effective coordination. Bovever, GOK has finalized
arrangements satisfactory to IDA to ensure effective
coordination between the Department of Agriculture
and Forestry Department with regard to providing
forestry extension services. Furthermore, insect
damage could occur on Ailanthus trees. However,
effective insecticides are available and extension
advice would focus on the potential problem.
Thidocument has a resricted distribution and may be used by repents only in the performance of
ofeixial duties. Its contents uay not otherwise be didowd without World Dank sutorizatzion



-iv-
Estimated Cost IJ:
(USS millions)
Local        ForeiJn         Total
A.  Organization and Management             14.4           0.8           15.2
B.  Plautation Activities
Seedling Production                    12.9            1.5           14.4
Large Block Plantations                 6.4            0.0            6.4
Small Block Plantations                 0.4             -             0.4
Strip Plantations                       0.8             -             0.8
Tribal Fuelvood Plantations             0.8             -             0.8
Tribal Medicinal Pilot Scheme           0.1             -             0.1
Plantation Protection                   0.3             -             0.3
Sub-total Plantation Activities             21.7           1.5           23.2
C. Extension and Publicity                  0.3            0.1            0.4
D. Training                                  2.1           0.4            2.5
E. Research and Studies                      0.1            -             0.1
Total Baseline Costs                       38.6            2.8           41.4
Physical Contingencies                       2.4           0.2            2.6
Price Contingencies                          9.8           0.7           10.5
Total Project Cost                         50.8            3.7           54.5
Financina Plan:                                      (USS millions)
Local        Foreifu         Total
GOIIGOK                   22.7            -            22.7
IDA                       28.1          3.7            31.8
Total                50.8          3.7            54.5
~~==
Estimated Disbursements                            (USS millions)
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91
Annual            2.6      4.6     4.7      5.8     6.0     6.3      1.8
Cumulative        2.6      7.2    11.9    17.7    23.7    30.0    31.8
Rate of Return:    About 26%.
Appraisal ReDort: No. 5036-IN, dated July 11, 1984.
j1 Includes taxes and duties of US$1.5 million equivalent.



INTERNATIOTAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDAION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUITrVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO MNDIA
FOR THE KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
Credit to India for SDR 30.6 million (US$31.8 million equivalent) on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a social forestry project in order to increase
supplies of fuelvood, poles and timber to rural and semi-urban areas in the
State of Kerala. The proceeds of the Credit would be channeled to the
Government of Kerala in accordance with the Government of India's standard
terms and arrangements for financing State development projects. The
exchange risk would be borne by the Government of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY jJ
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex 1.
Backzround
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
750 million (in mid-1984) and an snnual per capita income of US$260. The
economy is dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the
labor force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those
who own little or no land. Growth of value-added in agriculture - 2.2Z
since 1950151 - has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.3%
per annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost) from 52% in 1950/51 to about 33% in
1981/82, while the share of industry rose from 202 to around 26Z. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic grovth has been
slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6Z per annum since
1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress, with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: the gross national savings rate more than
doubled from 10.8Z of GDP (at factor cost) to 22.7Z in 1983/84, while the
gross domestic investment rate rose from 12.5% of GDP to 24.8% in 1983/84.
Foreign savings (balance of payments deficit on current account) have never
I/ Parts I and II of the report are similar to Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the National Cooperative Development Corporation
III Project (No. P-3833-IN), dated May 30, 1984.



-2-
financed a major portion of domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was
reached during the early 1960s. Currently, foreign savings account for about
8Z of investment. External assistance has been low both as a percentage of
GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3Z of GDP and averaging below
12 for the past five years. Net use of foreign savings has never risen above
3Z or GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume grovth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during
the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced
various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the
volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s
as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is
possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle
East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and
more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain
output. As a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial
value-added substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 3) averaging 5.3%, 3.3% and 8.1%, respectively, during the 1975/76
to 1978/79 period. In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the
worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil
prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain
production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a relatively large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks coincided with the preparation of
the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that aimed
at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2% per
annum.
Recent Trends
7.      Despite the effects of two severe droughts in 1979/80 and 1982/83,
India's economy in the early 1980s continued to grow at the faster pace of
the second half of the 1970s. Between the two droughts (from 1979/80 to
1982/83), GDP growth averaged almost 5% per annum, while between the two
recovery years (from 198C!81 to 1983/84), it was 4.5% per annum -- substan-
tially higher than India's long-term growth rate of 3.6%. Continued rapid
economic growth has resulted from a development strategy which includes
higher investment levels and liberalizee policies on imports, industrial
'icensing, prices, and commercial borrowing. These policies, by easing
constraints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities, were 3
determining factor in the improved performance of the economy and the
industrial sector. This overall improvement in performance, combined with a
more restrictive monetary policy in 1981/82 anid 1982!83, resulted in a sharp
decline in the rate of inflation. The growth rate of wholesale prices
declined from over 18% in 1980/81 to only 2.6% in 1982/83, but rose to over



-3-
9Z in 1983/84, mainly due to the effect of the 1982183 drq5zht on food
prices. Further improvements in the policy envirouwent will be required to
maintain these higher levels of economic growth and investment without put-
ting undue pressure on the balance of payments or reviving inflationary
expectations.
8.      Economic growth in the' early 1980. has not been steady, reflecti'g
the uneven rainfall during the period.  In 1980/81 and 1981182, the economy
substantially recovered from the 1979 drought, with real CDP growing by 7.6Z
and 5.3X, respectively. While industrial output expanded by 41 in 1980181
and 8.6Z in 1981182, recovery was particularly robust in agriculture where
normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15Z and 5.5Z, respectively.
The supply of power, coal, and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81,
was further expanded in 1981182, recording growth rates of about 101, 9.6Z
and 12.5S, respectively. This overall improvement in the Indian economy was
halted in 1982/83 by a severe drought in aid-1982 which reduced agricultural
production by 4Z, brought down the GDP growth rate to 1.8Z, and put further
strains on the already difficult balance of payments and domestic resource
situation. The timely implementation of various economic policies relating
to foodgrain imports, procurement and distribution, and the allocation of
power to irrigation pumps mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of
the poor monsoon. The economy recovered ia 1983/84, led by a robust agricul-
tural sector - GDP grew by about 6.51 to 7Z with agricultural production
growth in the 91-10% rsage and industrial growth of 4.5x. The major factors-
contributing to the good economic performance during 1983/84 were the excel-
lent monsoon, combined with adequate agricultural policies and programs, and
satisfactory performance of the coal and transport sectors. The power
sector, however, emerged again as a constraint on higher growth, especially
in industry.
9.      Agricultural production rebounded strongly in 1983184 in response to
the monsoon, improved use of inputs and continued expansion of irrigation.
Overall fooagrain production rose by 10Z-121 over the previous year, reaching
a new record of 142-144 million tons, a substantial increase over the pre-
vious peak of 133 million tons in 1981/82. Corrected for weather variations,
foodgrain production continues to grow at a trend of 2.6Z per annumr-
sufficient to maintain a broad balance between supply and steadily increasing
domestic demand. Nonetheless, the balance remains delicate, and the need for
foodgrain imports to saintnin consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks
could arise from time to time. Thus, adequate management of foodgrain stocks
and programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the
efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.    Basic infrastructure services had a mixzed performance in 1983184,
partially because of sluggish demand from industry during the first half of
the year but also due to a failure to maintain the productivity gains of
1980-82. Electricity generation grew only by about 3.7X due to low reservoir
water levels during the first half of the year, delays in the commissioning
of new capacity, and a deterioration of capacity utilization in thrrmal
plants. As a result, power generation was about 11.5X below requirements
and constituted a maior bottleneck in the economy. Key industries which were
adversely affected by power constraints included steel, fertilizers, cement,
and coal. To improve performance in the pover sector, the Government
recently increased incentives for higher labor and managment productivity in
thermal plants. Railway freight traffic, measured in ton-ims, grew by only



-4-
0.5% in 1983/84, reflecting sluggish demand. Coal production increased by
about 6.5Z in 1983/84 reaching 139 million tons. When combied with stocks
already available this level of productiou was sufficient to meet the rela-
tively slov demand growth. Infrastructural constraints would have emerged
much more sharply had the pace of industriaj growth and demand been more
rapid. It is therefore critically important that India maintain the pace of
investment in these key sectors,,mobilize sufficient resources to do so, and
implement programs to enhance productivity.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus
in the late 1970s to an aggregate resource deficit. The gap between gross
investment and national savings increased from negligible levels during the
late 1970s to an average equivalent to 2.1% of GDP in 1980-84. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.6% of GDP in the last four years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the
large proportion of its population below the poverty line. The scope for a
substantial increase in the savings rate is therefore quite limited. If
India is to maintain investment at about 25% of GDP, a major effort will be
required to raise additional domestic resources particularly in the public
sector. Future increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced
profitability of public sector enterprises which would require better
utilization of capacity, more efficient operations and adequate pricing
policies. This would also allow a marginal decline in the use of foreign
savings from the recent 2.1%-2.3Z of GDP to 1.5Z-l.8%, to ensure a sus-
tainable external debt service burden.
12.     India's external resource position has changed notably since the late
1970s. The current account balance, which recorded surpluses from 1976/77 to
1978/79, reverted to deficits averaging US$3.5 billion and 2.1X of GDP during
1980/81 to 1983/84. Several developments contributed to these relatively
larger current account deficits. First, the terms of trade deteriorated
sharply in 1979/80 due to the second round of oil price increases and con-
tinued to move against India during the first three years of the 1980s.
Second, a more liberal import policy towards industrial inputs was pursued.
Third, net invisibles declined as travel receipts fell off, workers' remit-
tances stagnated (reflecting slower development activity in the Middle East),
and payment of interest on higher levels of foreign debt increased. Faced
with severe infrastructural constraints and a deterioration in its balance of
payments, India initiated an adjustment program in 1980/81 designed to raise
the growth rate from its historical level of 3.6Z to 5.22 while adjusting the
country's external balance to the adverse price developments in the world
markets. The main elements of this strategy are export promotion, import
substitution where economically justifiable, implementation of a coherent
energy pqlicy designed to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing
the growth of oil imports, and continued movement toward a more liberal
import policy aimed at providing producers with access to inputs for higher
capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology and capacity
expansion. The program is being successfully implemented, and is leading to
substantial improvements.
13.    A positive development in India's balance of payments is the reduc-
tion in the trade deficit from US$7.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$5.9 billion in
1983/84 despite unfavorable world market conditions and iuport
-~~~~~~~~~~~               _



-5-
liberalization. Export volume growth and import substitution of oil and
petroleum products, metals and fertilizers more than offset the substantial
increase in "other" imports. These "other" imports consist mainly of
industrial imports and capital goods which historically have been in chronic
short su'ply and which are of critical importance to capacity utilization,
product quality, and plant mddernization and expansion. A major factor in
the decline of the trade deficit was the lower net import bill for petroleum,
which dropped from US$6.7 billion in 1980/81 to US$3.4 billion in 1983/84 in
response to a successful oil development program that reduced import needs
and allowed crude oil exports, which totalled about US$1.5 billion in
1983/84. These structural changes in the balance of payments are to a sig-
nificant degree the result of India's development and adjustment efforts over
the past three years. It is expected that the balance of payments vill
continue to be under strain for the next several years, since the adjustment
strategy vill continue to require high levels of imports.
14.     Even assuming a favorable export performance, India will need exter-
nal capital flows to augment its own resources for the foreseeable future,
given the low per capita income level in the country, the already high
savings rate, and the import requirement associated with improved growth
rates. Faced with a growing need for external capital inflows and stagnation
in the availability of concessional assistance, India decided at the start of
the Sixth Plan to increase borrowings from the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) and commercial banks to substantial levels. In the period covering the
fiscal years 1981/82 to 1983184. India drew SDR 3.9 billion from the Extended
Fund Facility of the IMF. In addition, India borrowed significant amounts on
commercial terms from the Euro-dollar market and increased the use of
suzppliers' and export credits. In the period 1980-84, India contracted
commercial loans totalling over US$6,000 million and suppliers' credits of
over US$1,000 million. The bulk of this borrowing has been used for specific
development projects in the public and private sector (mostly for petroleum
exploration and development, steel, power, aluminum and shipping). India's
favorable debt service position and the nature of its borrowings, for
project-related purposes instead of direct balance of payments support,
enabled it to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads. This
larger commercial borrowing and transfer of funds under the arrangement vith
the IMF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reserves which had fallen to
less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
Development Prospects
15.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for
additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India also has a wide range of institutions capable of fostering
development and is well-endowed with human resources. Finally, India has an
extensive natural resource base in terms of land, vater, and minerals
(primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic



-6-
policies and reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the capability
for managing these considerable resources to accelerate its'1ong-term growth.
16.     The Government is currently preparing the Seventh Plan which will lay
down the development strategy for 1985/86-1989/90. This strategy is expected
to continue the emphasis of the Sixth Plan on agriculture, energy
development, export promotion, domestic import substitution where economi-
cally justifiable and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall
Sixth Plan performance has been encouraging, with aggregate real investment
projected to be about 30X higher than in the period 1975-80-a creditable
performance indeed. The Sixth Plan expenditure targets, however, will not be
fulfilled as resource mobilization by the public sector will fall short of
the financing requirements of planned public investment. Actual aggregate
real investment is projected to be about 7Z below the original target for the
period 1980-85, private investment being 5Z to 1OZ higher and public invest-
ment about 20% lower in real terms than actually projected. In terms of
meeting Plan expenditure targets, the performance of the Central Government
is considerably better than that of the State Governments. The Central
Government's Plan outlays are likely to reach about 80Z to 902 of the
original Plan allocation in real terms, while the States' will probably
achieve only about 50% of their targets. Bottlenecks in key sectors such as
power, transport and irrigation are likely to persist as a consequence of
real investment shortfalls relative to original Plan allocations.
17.     Although Sixth Plan expenditure targets will not be met, India's
capital formation rates have increased from 22.6Z in 1975-80 to 24.7Z of GDP
in 1980-84. Recent higher capital formation rates are encouraging for future
income growth, but returns to investment have so far been relatively low.
Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of development, in which a
large and groving proportion of investment has been needed to build up basic
infrastructure services which have inherently high capital-output ratios.
However, there is scope to reduce capital-output ratios through improvements
in efficiency. As discussed in greater detail in our recent economic
reports, performance in the basic service sectors can be improved through
better planning and management, thus leading to higher productivity and
capacity utilization throughout the economy. At the same time, programs to
expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of tradeable commodities
like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the grounds of comparative
advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and transportation, expan-
sion of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of the rest of
the economy will be vital for sustained growth.
18.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil development program
backed by substantial financial comitment.  Performance under the program
-has been excellent with real investment and oil production levels running
yell ahead of Plan Targets. In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for
exploration and development were raised by successive price increases for
domestic crude and products. While the gap between domestic consumption of
petroleum and production remains large, India's dependence on oil imports
dropped from 63% of consumption in 1979/80 to about 41% in 1983/84 and is
expected to decrease to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined vith the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's



-7-
longer-term energy prospects. At the same time, the increases in domestic
petroleum prices have helped encourages conservation and slow demand growth.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can he brought into both internal and exter-
nal balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the
past.  This will require the continuation of the current development strategy
which assigns high priority to export promotion, public finance discipline,
improvement of economic efficiency, and investment in infrastructure, sup-
ported by adequate flows of external borrowing and aid. In the short term, a
relatively large level of external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowLing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of pay-
ments consequences of such a growth strategy.  However, an important element
in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate
flows of concessional assistance since India is still a very poor country
with a large rural sector and enormous investment requirements for human
development and basic infrastructure. Although India is currently in a
position to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels
of the past, there are, of course, limits beyond which India will choose to
sacrifice growth objectives rather than accept debt on unfavorable or
unmanageable terms. The fact that India has been able over the past decade
to maintain a rate of growth above the long term trend, despite the poor
monsoons of 1979 and 1982, suggests that a more open trade policy and
expanded efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of both foreign and domestic savings, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than to the long-run trend
of 3.6Z per annum. If the rate of population growth can be brought to below
2.0% per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of 1.4% per annum. Success in these efforts
would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing poverty in
India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
to accelerate Iadia's development efforts. The 1981 Census indicated there
was no decline in the rate of population growth, which remained about 2.2%
per annum in the 1970s despite a measurable decline in fertility rates. The
population growth rate failed to decline in the past decade due to a reduc-
tion in the infant mortality rate and an increase in life expectancy,
reflecting larger availability of food and health services. While this is a
welcome development, it implies a greater strain on the economy and re-
emphasizes the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the health and
family planning programs in a broad range of activities and services. These
efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise in
the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85. The Government
is reviewing its population policy for the Seventh Plan, with indications of
a determination to retain the emphasis on the implementation of family
planning, health, education and literacy programs aim2d at reducing fertility
rates.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic and
social policy. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and
more than 80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless



laborers and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 40% of
the urban population subsist below the poverty line. Srgnificant reductious
in poverty will depend primarily on an acceleration of economic growth,
particularly in agriculture, combined with effective implementation of
poverty alleviation programs. India's poverty alleviation strategy
appropriately recognizes that production-oriented programs, which aim at
accelerating the overall pacq of economic growth, and poverty alleviation
programs, targetted at those least able to participate in the general growth
of the economy, can be mutually reinforcing rather than substituting for each
other. Major poverty programs operating on a nationwide basis at present
include: the Minimum Needs Program (MNP), the Integrated Rural Development
Program (MPDp), and the National Rural Employment Program (NREP). The IRDP
and NREP are targeted programs aimed at increasing the incomes of the poor
rapidly, either through the transfer of productive assets or direct
employment. The MNP, aims at broadening the provision of social infrastruc-
ture and basic services which enhance the human capital of the poor and
improve living standards. Thes. programs represent a vitally important
commitment of the Government to address the needs of the poorest. The scale
of the poverty problem in India, combined with the inherent difficulties in
implementing poverty programs in any country, imply the need for continued
efforts to enhance the effectiveness of these programs.
PART II - BANR GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 164 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$12,016 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,452 million has been
repaid, and US$5,723 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1984.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1984 totalled US$1,072 million, representing an increase of about
6 percent over the same period last year. Annes II contains a sumary state-
ment of disbursements as of March 31, 1984.
23.     Since 1959, IFC bas made 29 comuitments in India totalling US$224
maillion, of which US$32 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$17
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$118 million, US$111 million repre-
sents loans and US$7 million equity. A sumary statement of IFC disburse-
ments as of March 31, 1984, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and
seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the grovth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have
hampered economic growth in India, particularly through pover generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importauce of improving



-g-
the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural
roads project, as vell as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastruc-
ture development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and
growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on
improved efficiezcy in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery
to fazmers' fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large
Narmada River basin will be vital to India-s efforts to increase agricultural
production. Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer
production and distribuzion, agricultural credit and extension, will continue
to receive support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly
increasing the domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India
is to curb the cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical pover shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Exploitation of oil and gas resources is a central element of this program,
which should be supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power
generation, and in the expansion of the transmission and distribution
networks. Industrial projects to increase the domestic production of basic
commodities, which have been in short supply and which India has a compara-
tive advantage in producing, should also receive high priority. Finally,
raising the e:ficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would
mitigate a key cons traint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so
that further support of the railways and for ports development will be par-
ticularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid co=zmmity, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the nid-1970s. However,
India continues to require a substantial level of foreign assistance both to
offset the overall deterioration in the world trade envirozment, and to
sustain the relatively higher investment and growth rates achieved during the
first four years of the Sixth Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance
for projects in India should aim to include the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry.
Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most
projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as
agriculture and irrigation.
27.       India-s poverty and needs are such that -whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessional terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India in the past was provided from
IDA. However, IDA lending to India has declined from a peak of US$1.5 bil-
lion in 1980 to below US$1 billion since that time, mostly due to funding
constraints related to IDA 6.  Lower IDA 7 replenishment and uncertainties
about IDA 8, coupled with increasing claims for IDA funding from other



-10-
countries, indicate that the amount of IDA funds available to India is likely
to continue declining, even in nominal terns, and will remain small in rela-
tion to India's needs for external support. Thus, this requirement for
additional assistance vill have to be met, in part, through larger Bank
lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is judged
credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A continuation
of efforts already undervay to achieve growth in productive capacity, trade
expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a reduc-
tion in the rate of population growth should rebult in continued economic
growth and improvement in tue balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still wanageable. The ratio of India-s
debt service to the level of exports of goods and services and receipts of
current transfers was about 12.9% in 1983/84. Over the next several years
this ratio is projected to rise to around 20X and remain around that level
through 1995196. As of March 31, 1984, outstanding loans to India held by
the Bank totalled US$3,884 million, of which US$2,021 million remain to be
disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,863 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969170, the Bank
Group accounted for 34Z of total commitments, 13Z of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 62%, 33Z and 37Z, respectively, in
1983184. On March 31, 1984, India-s outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was estimated to be about US$26.9 billion, of which the Bank
Group's share was US$9.6 b1llion or 36Z (IDA's US$7.8 billion and IBBD's
US$1.8 billion). In 1983184, about 19.0Z of India-s total debt service
payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - FORESTRY IN INDIA AND KERAILA
Backaround
29.       India's forest reserve land covers about 75 N ha, or 23% of total
land area, but only about 50% of this designated land is tree covered. One
of :he serious problems facing India is the degredation and depletion of its
forests, which is causing considerable harm to the environment. Forests have
been depleted through uncontrolled lopping and felling of treee for fuel and
fodde&. Overgrazing has also taken its toll on young trees and grasslands,
further removing the groundcover necessary to protect and replenish the
topsoil. Unless the decline in forests and other tree resources is steened,
the shortage of fuelvood, timber, poles a-d other forest products will become
_ncreasingly critical.
30.     A study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research
estimated total fuelwood consumption in 1978/79 at 95 N tons (125 H m3) or
62 M tons of coal replacement equivalert. Of this, one-third was in the form
of logs, the rest in twigs and branches. In addition, 71 M tons of cowdung
were burnt (22 H tons coal rep.acement equivalent). The estimated demnd in
the year 2000 would be 200 M m3 without considering any substitution of dung
with fuelwood. If 502 of tLe energy consumed by dung burning was substituted
by fuelwood, the total fuelwoci demand would be about 230 H m3. For
industrial wood, the demand has been estimated at about 27 M m3 in 1980 and
65 M m3 in 2000. The total annual wood demand for the year 2000 is therefore



likely to be nearly 300 X m3, equivalent to some 20-30 N ha of mature
plantation.
Government of India Policies and Social Forestry ProRrams
31.     Over the years, GOI has taken an increasingly active role in
forestry, which traditionally had been left to private interests and the
commercial sector. To meet future fuelvood needs, a Fuelvood Commission
Report of 1980 recorxmended a five-fold increase in the current level of
social forestry planting. This is reflected in the country's Fifth (1974-79)
and Sixth (1980-85) Five-Year Plans, which devoted respectively, 49% and 78%
of forestry allccations to social forestry.  It  8s expected that about
1.93 N ha of social forestry plantations would be established under the
auspices of State forestry programs by the end of 1988, amounting to a total
public investment of Rs 5,950 M (US$540 N).
Forestry in Kerala
32.    Kerala covers 38,663 km2 and is one of the cou atrys smallest States.
The State generally enjoys good sunlight, has fertile soils, a plentiful
network of water resources, and good rainfall from both the May-August south-
west and September-October northeast monsoons. Agroforestry orientation in
Kerala is strong. Besides commercially grown tree crops such as coconut and
rubber, other trees, including those which provide support for pepper vines
or shade for cocoa, cardamom and coffee, compleoent important agricultural
crops. In addition, private farmers grow trees like Ailanthus for sale to
matchbox/splint and packing case manufacturers, Casuarina for sale as poles,
and other species for sale as small timber.
33.     Forests cover about 11,239 km2, or 29Z of the Sta:Ces land.  The
growing stock comprises 167 K m3 of wood, expected to be utilized as follows:
53! fuelvood, 11% plywood, 2Z matchwood, 2 pulpwood and 32% other industrial
wood. The increasing difficulty in satisfying local demand for firewood, as
well as other uses such as timber and poles, is reflected in the recent rapid
price increases for these prodicts.  Moreover, the commercial market for vood
does not fully reflect the current situation, since non-commercial consump-
tion constitutes a major portion of total demand.
34.     Decline of Forests.  Forested areas have declined for several
reasons, and have not been replanted at an adequate rate. Population pres-
sures have led to deforestation. Landholdings are quite small (90X of them
are under one ha), population density is the highest in India, and Kerala has
a population growth rate of about 2.6% per annum. Natural sources of fuel
including private trees and agricultural waste, have not increased at the
same rate as the population. Formerly productive forest land has been
encroached by farmers, submerged following hydro-electric and irrigation
works, and redeEignated as wildlife sanctuaries and parks. Moreover, the
growing stock available for annual harvesting will further decrease since the
Govez-rment of Kerasa (GOK) recently decided, as an environmental measure,
to stop clearfelling operations.
35.     Fcrest Policy and Organization. GOK aims to protect the existing
forests and establish new plantations, and expand the area for tree planta-
tion throz_-g  farm forestry.  It has devoted increasing resouzces to social



-12-
forestry and has established regulations for protection. GOK's social
forestry expenditure vas Rs 0.4 million and Rs 4.5 million under the Fourth
Five-Year Plan (1969-74) and the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1974-79),
respectively, and it is planned to be Rs 19.6 million under the current Sixth
Five-Year Plan (1980-85).
36.     Forestry Institutions.  The Government Secretariat for Agriculture
and Forests (SAF) administers both agriculture and forestry. The Forest
Department has four Chief Conservators of Forests (CCF) and one Additional
Chief Conservator, each of whom is directly responsible to the
Secretary/Agriculture Production Commissioner of the SAF. Two Forestry
Training Schools provide a basic training course for Foresters and Rangers.
In 1982, GOK established a separate Social Forestry Wing (SFW) in the Forest
Department. Currently, the SFW is staffed with a small headquarters staff
and very limited field staff.
37.    SFW distributed 103 M seedlings for farm forestry, and planted
4,418 ha (on degraded land, block plantations, strip plantations and plots in
tribal areas) in 1982-83. SFW nov aims to strengthen its organization in
order to improve the survival rates of seedlings, the quality of advice given
to farmers and the impact of its programs.
38.     Villages are grouped under panchayats, which undertake a vide variety
of both compulsory and discretionary duties regarding forestry. In addition
to Government agencies, voluntary organizations also are active in Kerala.
Many of them have collaborated with the SFW in the distribution of seedlings
and in advising farmers on planting.
The Bank-s Involvement in Indian Forestry
39.    The Bank Group, as well as other donors, including the United States
Agency for International Development, the British Overseas Administration and
the Swedish International Development Agency, have supported India's program
for forestry development. The Bank has financed five social forestry
projects in India, one of vhich includes two States: the Uttar Pradesh
Social Forestry Project (Credit 925-IN; US$23 million; June 1979); the
Gujarat Com0uuity Forestry Project (Credit 961-IN; US$37 million; April
1980); the West Bengal Social Forestry Project (Credit 1178-IN;
US$29 million; February 1982); the Jamu and Kashmir and Haryana Social
Forestry Project (Credit 1286-IN; US$33 million; September 1982) and the
Karnataka Social Forestry (Cr. 1432-IU; US$27 million; February 1984). The
recent mid-term reviews of the Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat Social Forestry
Projects, and supervision of the social forestry projects generally, indicate
good overall progress in implementation.
40.     The relative emphasis on different types of plantation components
has changed in social forestry projects. Focus is nv on farm forestry,
which is less expensive than planting on Government land and it yields higher
and more direct benefits to farmers, since farmers take all produce/revenues.
Farm forestry performance has exceeded appraisal expectations. Other social
forestry components are generally progressing well, except for the self-help
village woodlots schemes in which performance is below expectations, mainly
due to the inability of village administrations to mobilize adequate funds
for development works.



-13-
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
41.    The project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited India in
January/February 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington D.C. in June
1984 with an Indian delegation coordinated by Mr. P. Singh, of the Government
of India's Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Staff
Appraisal Report, No 5036-fN, is being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. A Supplementary Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Rationale
42.    Kerala, like a number of other Indian States, is experiencing a
severe deficit with regard to forest products, especially fuelvood, building
poles, small timber and fodder. The deficit is creating social, economic and
ecological problems. GOK has devoted substantial resources in order to
overcome the problem. However, assistance is needed to (i) adequately
expand resource availability for the subsector; (ii) improve project design;
(iii) foster family operated nurseries; (iv) implement a pilot program for
cultivating medicinal plants; and (v) introduce key institutional changes in
order to launch and execute effective social forestry programs.
Proiect Obiectives and Description
43.     The project's primary objectives are to (i) increase production of
fuelvood, small timber poles and fodder; (ii) increase farmers' incomes;
(iii) reduce soil erosion and conserve soil moisture; and (iv) strengthen
forestry institutions. The project would consist of:
(a) forest planting of approximately 85,000 ha;
(b) establisbmeut/improvement of nurseries;
(c) extension and publicity;
(d) training;
(e) research and studies; and
(f) institution building.
Detailed Features
Plantation Proaram
44.     Farm Forestry (69.200 ha-81% of Total Planting Program Under the
Proiect). The project would provide funds for establishing of 69,200 ha of
forestry on private farm land through development of additional nurseries
and provision of advisory services. For this purpose, GOK would raise and
distribute, particularly to small farmers, about 340 million seedlings over a
six year project period. A network of small family and school operated
nurseries would support this effort. In line vith GOI's policy and in
accordance with previous agreements betveen the Bsnk and GOI, only a limited



-14-
number of seedlings-3,500 Casuarina and 500 for other species, would be
distributed to each farm fa;lly free of charge.  This is the estimated number
of trees required to meet the domestic needs, mainly for fuelvood, of an
average family. Seedlings in excess of the free limit would be charged at
the full financial cost of production including the cost of trausportation.
Farm forestry, which would constitute the largest portion of the plantation
program, is expected to be the most beneficial to farmers, and more flexible
with regard to species mix and product utilization.
45.     Block Plantations (12.000 bha-14Z of Total Planting Program).  Funds
would be provided under the project to finance establishment of 12,000 ha of
block plantations on Government land; 11,000 ha would be in large blocks and
1,000 ha would be in small blocks. Block plantations would produce addi-
tional fuelvood and poles on otherwise unproductive land. The pLantations
would be established by the SFW. Laborers from nearby villages and some
forest guards would be employed for establisbhent, maintenance and harvesting
of the plantations. SFW would bear the cost of establishment and
maintenance. Hovever, GOK would recover the direct costs by selling forestry
produce at Government depots. GOK would finalize arrangements for sale of
fuelwood by June 30, 1986 (paragraph 2 of Schedule 2 of the draft Project
Agreement).
46.     Strip Plantations (2.000 ha-2Z of Total Planting).  Under the
project SFW would establish plantations along coastal belts, roadsides,
railway and canal strips. SFW's role would be the same as under block
plantations.  The design of strip plantations would take into account the
existing land use patterns so as to avoid adverse conflicts between competing
needs.
47.     Involvement of Tribals (2.100 ha-3Z of Total Planting).  Funds would
oe provided to enable SFW to extend special assistance to tribals by
(i) establishing 2,000 ha of plantations adjacent to tribal communities to
produce fuelwood; (ii) establishing, on a pilot basis, 100 ha of medicinal
plants to be cultivated by tribals who would market the plants, and increas-
ingly assume responsibility for running the operation; and (iii) setting
up a limited number of small nurseries to be run by tribals. In addition,
tribals would be employed on GOK plantations, and after acquiring forestry
skills, progressively take over responsibility for the plantations adjacent
to them.
48.     Nurseries and Seedlings.  The project would provide funds for
establishment/improvement of a large number of small nurseries on family
holdings, and to a limited extent, on school grounds. SFW already has been
operating about 100 small nurseries, and 472 such nurseries are planned for
the first year of the project, increasing to 1,055 by the fifth year.
Foresters would closely supervise and assist the operators of the small
nurseries-contractor operators.  SFW would take an agreed number and type of
seedlings for distribution and planting from each operator each year. The
seedlings would meet agreed quality standards. Farmers would have easier
access to seedlings through these nurseries, which would reduce dis.ributiou
costs. The nurseries would be a source of income to the families employed to
operate them, and vould reduce SFW's costs. The nurseries would also be used
as locations for extension advice to farmers. It is expected that SFW would



-15-
establish about 50 large nurseries of its own. Meanvhile, every August, GOI
and GOK would reviev the small nurseries scheme and submit a report to IDA.
49.     Extension and Publicity.  Given the broad scope of the farm forestry
component and the fact that farmers would be responsible for the planting and
care of about 340 million seedlings, extension and publicity activities would
play an important role in project success. On the field extension side, the
Social Forestry Wing would have a relatively small but trained cadre of
Rangers and Foresters to take responsibility for farm forestry promotion at
key distribution and meeting points. As for follow-up with individual
farmers, the existing agricultural extension system (vith nearly 2,000
Village Level Workers making fortnightly visits) would lend valuable assis-
tance in reinforcing messages on tree planting to farmers. SFW and
Agricultural Extension staff would coordinate social forestry activities, in
line with similar trends in other States with Bank-financed projects in both
social forestry and the Training and Visit system of agricultural extension.
The project would also provide funds to enable SFW to sponsor a variety of
extensiou and publicity activities including: Ci) a special promotion by
voluntary organizations; (ii) extension and publicity publications and
materials; (iii) radio announcements and dissemination of information through
newspapers and other news media; (iv) talks and demonstrations at meetings
and schools; (v) organizing farmers' rallies and meetings; (vi) tours by
publicity vans, and (vii) hiring of a local consultant to prepare an informa-
tion and publicity program.
50.     Training.  The project would provide funds for improving the capacity
of the forestry training schools to conduct orientation, basic and inservice
training for existing staff in social forestry techniques and extension. In
addition, training programs would be developed for voluntary organizations,
farmers and other interested parties. Training and accommodation facilities
at Walayar and Arippa Forestry Training schools, would be expanded and exist-
ing buildings would be renovated. Tender documents, including detailed plans
for the first year civil works, would be submitted to IDA and contracts are
expected to be let by November 30, 1984.
51.     Research and Studies.  Funds vould be provided for institutions and
individual consultants to undertake research related to social forestry,
including tree quality, effective extension and appropriate monitoring and
evaluation procedures. Funds would also be provided to finance a wood supply
and demand study to be completed by December 31, 1985.
Organization and Management
52.     The Secretary/Forests, Government Secretariat, would have the overall
responsibility for all coordination. However, the CCF/Social Forestry, would
have the primary responsibility for project implementation by the SFW. The
SFW will include at headquarters, four support divisions: (i) training,
extension and publicity; (ii) planning and programming; (iii) monitoring and
evaluation; and (iv) finance. Two regional Social Forestry Circles each
headed by a Regional Conservator, have been established and would be respon-
sible for field operations.



-16-
53.     The SFW would be strengthened through improved organization, training
additional staff and vehicles and equipment. The newly created position of
the CCF/Social Forestry has been filled. The positions of Conservator for
Training, Extension and Publicity, Conservator for Planning and Progra-ming,
Deputy Conservator of Forests for Monitoring and Evaluation and Finance
Officer have been sanctioned and filled. The two Regional Conservator posi-
tions have been sanctioned and will be filled by December 31, 1984. In
addition, 14 positions of District Divisional Conservators of Forests have
also been sanctioned.
Monitoring and Evaluation
54.     The Monitoring anc Evaluation Office (MEO) would monitor progress
of project implementation, and undertake an evaluation of the impact of the
project, in accordance with the "Operational Guidelines to the Monitoring and
Evaluation of Social Forestry in India" formulated by GOI, FAO and IDA. The
HEO would carry out a mid-term review after the third year's planting season,
and, by March 31, 1987, submit to IDA a report concerning the review (draft
Project Agreement, Section 3.02).
Cost Recovery
55.     The primary objective of the project is to meet critical basic needs
of rural and semi-urban people.  The Govervment investment associated with
the project is seen as part of a rrogram for the uplifting and welfare of the
rural population, costs of which traditionally are not recovered from the
beneficiaries. However, substantial cost recovery would be made for planta-
tions on public lands, by selling the fuelwood and poles produced on such
lands. In addition, the costs of seedlings in excess of the free limits
would be fully recovered. Moreover, the project would aim at reducing GOK
involvement in small nursery operations and thereby gradually divesting
itself of a substantial fiscal burden associated with farm forestry
development.
Project Cost and Financing
56.     Total project cost, based on January 1984 prices and projected to
July 1984, is estimated at US$54.5 million equivalent, including taxes and
duties estimated at US$1.5 million equivalent, or 2.8Z of total project cost.
The foreign expenditure component is estimated at US$3.7 million equivalent
or 6.8% of the total. Physical contingencies amount to about US$2.6 million
or 6.2% or base costs, while price contingencies of about US$10.5 million
are based on expected annual price increases for local expenditure of 8X,
7Z, 7Z, 7%, 62, 6Z for the Indian fiscal years 1984-90, and 5%, 8%, 9%, 9%,
9Z, 7%, for foreign expenditures for the same years.
57.     The credit of US$31.8 million equivalent would cover about 60Z of
total project costs net of duties and taxes. GOI and GOK would contribute
the balance of US$22.7 million equivalent, or 40% of the total project cost.
Retroactive financing not exceeding US$1.0 million would be provided to cover
expenditures incurred after March 31, 1984, for nursery development, advance
soilworks for plantations, civil works related to construction of training
schools and Trivandrum and regional headquarters, essential vehicles and



-17-
equipment, incremental staff employed on the 1984 planting operation
(paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the draft Credit Agreement) and consultancy
services for the wood supply and demand study.
Procurement
58.     All items to be procured under the project would involve local com-
petitive bidding (LCB) or force account procedures. Civil vorks
(US$10.8 million) would be small and scattered geographically and over time,
consisting mainly of simple housing, office and training facilities.
Consequently, contracts would be let on the basis of LCB under GOI's proce-
dures satisfactory to IDA. If no responsive bids are received due to the
small size of the individual contracts, work would be done by force account.
Contracts over US$150,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review. Vehicles
(US$1.l million) comprising small numbers of several types, would be pur-
chased over two years and, would require purchase of locally made vehicles of
types already being used by Government departments. Procurement would be
under LCB according to Government procedures acceptable to IDA. Imported
research and other technical equipment (US$0.2 million) would be specialized,
proprietory, required in small quantities, and therefore, would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding. These items, together with
other equipment, materials and furniture would be bulked wherever possible
and purchased under LCB, except for contracts valued at less than US$20,000
which would be purchased through prudent shopping. Plantation activities
(US$31.4 million) would be scattered throughout the State and would be car-
ried out through force account according to Government procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA. Consultant services would be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
Disbursements
59.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:  (a) 50X
of total costs for civil works; (b) 100% of CIF price of imported vehicles,
equipment and furniture, or 70% if locally procured; (c) 60% of total planta-
tion costs; (d) 100% of total costs for foreign and local study tours, and
studies, including consultancies; and (e) 60% of incremental staff salaries.
60.     Disbursements against expenditures for the following items would be
against statements of expenditures certified by the CCF/Social Forestry, the
documentation for which would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be
retained by the project authorities and made available to IDA review missions
for their inspection: (a) plantation costs, local and overseas training
costs; (b) payments under civil works contracts not exceeding Rs 300,000 and
those carried out under force account; (c) locally procured vehicles, equip-
ment and furniture costing Rs 150,000 or less; (d) research, studies and
local consultant costs. Disbursement against all other items would be con-
tingent upon full and satisfactory documentation. The estimated disbursement
schedule has been based on the disbursement record for the ongoing IDA
financed Social Forestry projects in India.



-18-
Accounts and Audit
61.     The Forest Department's Social Forestry Wing would maintain separate
project accounts in a readily identifiable form to facilitate their being
audited independently from overall accounts. Such accounts and statements of
expenditure would be audited anuually by the Government or a private auditing
firm satisfactory to IDA in accordance with general auditing principles
consistently applied. Audited statements would be made available to IDA not
later than six months after the end of each year (draft Project Agreement,
Section 3.01).
Benefits, Justification and Risks
62.     The annual incremental production of forestry products comprising
11.9 million m3 of fuelvood, 13.9 million m3 of sawlogs, 8.0 million m3 of
small poles and 16.0 million m3 of large poles would assist in reducing the
groving shortage of these products. Most of the production would bec2fit the
rural and semi-urban poor, particularly, the landless laborers and small
marginal farmers. The farm forestry and small nurseries components would
directly increase farmer incomes. Over the six years, the project would
generate 530 semi-skilled jobs in the SFW. The small nurseries would provide
employment for about 3,000 farmers and the plantation activities would gener-
ate 9 million labor days of work on establishment and maintenance of the
plantations. In addition, the project would strengthen the SFW and related
institutions and enable them to provide effective social forestry guidance
and extension services. The project would also help to improve the ecology,
soil fertility and climatic conditions.
63.     The economic rate of return is estimated at 26Z.  The economic rates
of return for the individual plantation components range from 15% for strip
plantations, to 332 for farm forestry. The sensitivity analysis indicates
that the benefits would have to go down by 73% or costs increase by 278%,
for the project to be economically unattractive.
64.     The project faces no major risks.  Hovever, wastage of seedlings
could occur if seedlings distribution programs exceeded SFW's capacity for
efficient distribution. However, the risk would be minimized by an assurance
that IDA would be consulted regarding the introduction of any new distribu-
tion programs. It is planned to use the existing agricultural extension
service to advise on proper tree planting and maintenance instead of expand-
ing the existing extension staff employed by the Department of Forestry. To
minimize the risk involved in the new approach, GOK has finalized arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association, to ensure effective coordination
between the agricultural and social forestry extension services. It is also
possible for insect damage to occur on Ailanthus trees included in the farm
forestry planting program. However, effective insecticides are available and
extension advice would focus on this problem.



-19-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.     The draft IDA Credit Agreement between India and the Association, the
draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of Kerala, and
the Recommendation of the Coumittee provided for in Article V, Section l(d),
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
67.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VT - RECOMMENDATION
68.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
July 11, 1984



AMNE I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                 - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IDIA                               RUEERENCE aours (tE:lQ AV  A        {S) a
MtOST                   (MST RCT  ESrmA7t) /b
I7galb     b      "T   b         LOW IM IDDLE INCCRE
lb 1970.-ETMA&-             ASIA & PACIFIC        ASIA 6 PACIFIC
1960-      t70  ESTmAT                rs     cso*-Ar
A  (T 9A SQ. 00
TOTAL                            3287.6     32U7.6     3287.6
AURtICLTUL.                      1760.7     1780.5     1811.3
cp MM CaPITA CUSB)                   70.0       100.0      260.0             276.7                   1028.6
a cums   ar
(KILORAMS OF COA.L FIVALERr)      114.0      165.0      210.0             398.4                    792.8
PMATI0  AM WIl SDT;SCS
POPULATION,MD-YEAR. (TIMOSA-MS) 434850.0   547569.0   690183.0
Ur"  POPILATIOM C2 OF TOTAL)-     18.0       19.8       23.7              21.5                     32.9
POPOLATIO  PROJECCION
POPULATIO  IN YEA 2000 (KMLL)                        1001.3
STAXIOrAIR POPUATION (HILL)                          1838.3
TEAR STATI0RtM P. REACtU                              2140
POPULATION 0E1357
PER 9Q. 1.                      132.3      166.6      205.3              161.7                   260.7
m  SQ. U. ACRt. LAND            247.0      307.5      372.7             363.1                   1696.5
POPLATION AGE STRUCURE (2)
0-1 4TILS                       40.9       42.7       39.7              36.6                     39.4
15-64 IRS                        5C..5      54.2       57.2              59.2                     57.2
6 AID *AOW                        4.6       3.1         3.0               4.2                      3.3
POPILATONF CQtE RATE Ct)
TOTAL                             1.0        2.1        2.1               1.9                      2.3
URBAN                             2.5        3.3        3.7               4.0                      3.9
CRUDE  IRTI RATE CPER  5)          43.7       40.0       35.4              29.3                     31.3
OuD DEKATH RJTE  t I TDOUS)        21.8       16.7       13.3              10.9                      9.6
CROSS REPROOUCrIOI RATE             2.9        2.7        2.4               2.0                      2.0
FAI.Y PLANIC
ACCETORS, ARNA. (TUOCS)          64.0     3782.0     6826.0
USEIS CE OF NRID VWO)              ..       12.0       23.0              46.1                     46.6
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
C1969-71-100)                      98.0      102.0      107.0             111.4                    125.2
ER CAPITA SUFFLY OF
CALORIES (2 Or IAUROMI ST's)     96.0       90.0       87.0               98.1                   114.2
PROrEINS (CIMS PER DAT)          54.0       50.0       47.0              56.7                     57.9
OF URQCH AIII!I AN1D PULSE      17.0       15 .0      13.0/c            13.9                     14.1
CHILD CAGES 1-4) DEATH RATE       26.2        20.7       17.0              12.2                      7.6
LSFE WECr. AT SIMTH (TEARS)        43.2       48.1       52.2              59.6                     60.2
IWAMT HCRT. XATE (PER 3OU3)      165.0      139.0      121.2              96.6                     68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE VATER (%PO0)
TOTAL                              ..       17.0       33.0/d            32.9                     37.1
URBAN                              ..       60.0       83.07rd           70.8                     54.8
RAL                                ..        6.0       20.0rd            22.2                     26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
C: OF POPILMATION)
TOTAL                              ..       18.0       20.0/.            18.1                     41.4
URBAN                              ..       85.0       87.07              72.7                    47.5
RURAL                              *-        1.0        2.67i             4.7                     33.4
POPTLATION PER PHYSICIA         '850.0      4890.0     3640.0/f          3506.0                   7771.9
POP. PER  ORSINTG PERSOY        109IO.0k   83O0.0      5380.077          6797.9                   2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOtAL                          2180.0     1650.0      1310.0/d          1100.6                  1047.2
URBAN                             ..          ..      37v0o7x           298.4                    651.1
RURAL                              ..         ..    1010.0 7d           5941.6                  2591.9
ADtl;SS IONS PEU HOSPITAL ZED        ..         ..         ..                ..                     27.0
AVERAE SIZE OF HDSEHMO
TOTAL                             5.2        5.6        5.2/.
URBAN                             5.2        5.6        *.87..
RURAL                             5.2        5.6        5 . 37
AVRACE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                             2.6        2.8
URBAN                             2.6        2.8
RURAL                             2.6        2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (: OF DWELLINCS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URUAM                              ..         ..
RURA                               ..         ..          .                 ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
Da                     - SOCIAL IIrATORS IDAA SHeE
IDI                                 R             PS  (E1iz AVIWS) 1a
MOST                     (HOST RtECIT ESTMTE) lb
7 MCNTNI           LO IrO IDDLE ICOut
t9 0f-    _ 1970b CzST;&A1T&        ASIA & PACIFIC          ASIA I PACIFIC
ADJUSTEM EWlNU.HIf RATIOS
FIKAXT:  TOrAL                   61.0        73.0        76.0/f            96.1                    101.2
MLE                    80.0       90.0        9o.o0             107.3                    106.0
FENALE                 40.0       56.0        61.07f            82.9                     97.5
SECONDARTY: TOTAL                20.0        26.0       28.0/f             30.2                     44.9
ALXE                   30.0       36.0        37.07F            37.3                      SO.O
IOCALE                 10.0       I5.0        i.o7F             22.2                     44.6
VOCATIONaL (t Or SfOHRY)            2.8         1.0         0.71.             2.3                     16.5
PPIJL-TACHIER RATIO
PRnIt                            46.0        41.0       43.0/f             34.4                     32.7
SECONDARY                        16.0        21.0          ..              18.4                     23.4
ADILT LITEmCY RATE (Z)             27.8        33.4       36.0               53.5                     72.9
a- r
PASSEUCR CASTRWIAIU POP             0.6         1.1         1.31f             1.6                      9.7
RADo R     vI?ER s/TOus    POP      4.9        21.5       44.4-              96.3                    113.7
nT ROCCIVERS/TROUSAND POP           0.0         0.0         1.7               9.9                     50.1
NEYPAPR (-AILY GENER
INTEREsr) CIRCLMATTO
*ER TIIIAID POPLATION             10.6        16.2       19.7               16.4                     54.0
cINl AnIrAL ATTINDAICE/CAPITA       3.2         4.1         3.7/e             3.6                      3.4
LABOR I
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TlOUS)       115951.0   219194.0   271179.0
FINALZ (P"MCE)                   30.7        32.5       31.8               33.3                     33.6
A=ULSURE (PERCENT)               74.0        74.0        69.3              69.0                     50.9
IMUSTm   (PERCENT)              11.0        11.0       13.2               15.8                     19.2
PARTICIPATON RATE (PERCENT)
TOM                              42.8        40.0        39.3              42.5                     38.6
KWE                              57.0        52.4        51.9              54.4                     50.7
FIALF.                           27.3        26.9        25.9              29.6                     26.6
EC-R IC DEFENDEDC  RATIO            1.1         1.1         1.1               1.0                      1.1
DEa    IsUTDIO
PERCEN OF PRIVATE DNCCIE
tEcEIVED BT
UIGAEST 52 OF NOUSERLOS          26.7        26.3/h      22.2/1            16.5                     22.2
HIraSA 202 OF NOUSEUaLDS         51.7        4a.97F     49.47T             43.5                     48.0
LOES 20U OF NOUSEHOLDS            4.1         6.776       7.07*             6.9                      6.4
LOEST 402 OF HOUSECILDS          13.6        17.27C      16.27             11.5                     15.5
P-vil!Y TANT aOm"
ESTICATED ABSOLUTC POVERTY 1fC0
LEVM (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       132.0             133.9                    196.5
RUAL                               ..          ..       114.0             111.6                    155.0
E_STIMED RATIVE POVERTY INCON
LEV  CUSS PER CAPIrA)
URA                                 ..         ..          ..                ..                    178.0
RURUL                              ..          ..          ..                ..                    16'. 
ESTIDATED POP. BELOW ASSMUTE
POVERTY INDC LEVEL (I)
UAt                                ..          ..        40.3              43.8                     26.6
RauAL                              ..          ..        50.7              51.7                     41.1
NT AVArLABLE
.OT APPLICAILE
N O T E S
- /s The group everqgu for each indicator are popu1attem-we1ghted arltimetic mea.  Coverage of countrimn amorg the
Indicator. depends on availabllty of data and is not umiforo.
/b Unless otherwise noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; 'Date for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for '!ost Recent Eatimte' betw"n 1979 and 1931.
Ic  1977; /d 1976; to 1975; /f 1976: 1  1962; /b 1964-65.
May 1963



Page 3 of 5
31314, 441045  I11 4314...  40- 4.31 -.  a.1414LL? jod54d g331mo  4014thti1tatl     .44"1.1,40..Iat 3041.1.. 44 -*l.a U.. it.,4  314  1-I4...33a5I 
31404144s.=445  .4 Ch. 444 .4 .Pat40 A.d   ..4 4.21.1-  .4  a.. ...  It 01134rI0 ro-allo  1. .3.41114 I- 3. A-..   10.0 . ,.t  I....0.13
f.tt4tba _.- .4.  aaaafit   * PA.141  1404.40- 'Noaamorla 313.14 Po141al 4113         ,1t.ova1  40 aoL9.
low ml......  ,-'q, Pro (13 skI "   v1043  gr-3  .1 331 100"  4          Pat.0.)). -.U"  -w. .114 .woool  44440r 044   a~   ~1    h ..rp g-                4. l
9ab)1ct .0401? Iw.P. Ill 14050 Ottawas 413 304sq.41s  00 30.  1 %4344  Smoot 104 At""w oad 511644. Go.,1 * Paar3 h.-.  .4 *44.-fta0r                  14
h143.l1t.).  1.40. CONtraft14  41  4.15 a 31    mapa lt .0o   .34416to ....ht4  -1411011  3140 t14  a40  PoOk.3.t  44  .01o,  -..,   -0 14241417*  30  -1311   L. 1 
54- 0 4I.. 14. that I'maa..34.. Rhait l411a 1 raaaart1t4144 at sd30tr 4441.-..4, aa11 443 1.hbtaaap f 4 o . 4.444t4 ..lt. .40la Loot 4.
40 t     3 4o 4                                                                    73.414.31 4.14131 4*444t - Ft.3.th 44.140 by L.60w .3r            Its
W t                                                  or1t..130  113144  1   W,14   P~ar*                               aftal4'. 4.41113101.  -       .0
one .1 Peru            ft aday~ ~~~ ~~~~~4.- e., .44 e4403  ..41..1.44
""P "'Na 1443d 4t.133110 414  W 44 It. 31404 4.44.                     .c1.   "Mto 0141. 4.II  3-.0I.a330041 hd
340.441s 40  4.1 .Gm pa   Pty 41a aretaab1paco                                            44Iab-1. Pul 3141.4.  S4t1U34t    . morlm p4.tisl 441.Ipa.41 atdt
1341 40  1541 aPtiod P4".Fid 11440 14 ML.                                           %-b. .3  .ltle t31. .314.1.. vov.".3 .4..3. atta.p.e 1.0144044  tafro
also. JIM0. 40a in53 4.14.b - .441  114.1. 3311.4o. 440   13.tp.t1g.aa~t1 l40I.1*. 4. i44
aaharo ot.3t. 013 44 Rarl  h10431.Il* ar 4003 1.4 0 4041l 1404.
two. JS1t1"t 14011U11.Itl.drb   soap'tat                                                                    1 - 4d  "ft 1.4.4 311Woo,4 1.141a..a 
4.   ,  of4 .1aIy  1 14Sab. 1431. . ..  3I. IS     Ao - b- 34111  -ha 44 aftl.todo 1. or 41.111.4.
mil ',-.~ .tO  404   .4.4-
OvIa'a P4ts  j43314  411    I114 W 0   34 14.4  4.4.3134
W133..-Uim       41404431.44 W _4h,,.17.4 doe.                                 44
4PP  aoatoog ISM. two. 4013121 4m.1.w.h3                                                           400d14.0.hlaL-   0.00.441
7      - carroL po.3. 110 projo.tooo04  11444a  -  1431           40a hPalf tagl ..l.. 4 4.314  -  144440? Par or? tat h.Saa 1.1 A1. 
toptica 444313, .4 U.d.. - mp4.  an  141e.  l-   .Pa114t 14474 4.4                   44 4m. 5-apm.11.0..  saa144. 40rs                                   oo4 .44  311.4
4004.13..53 4414411 40 f.143L4t, L.404 ft, W.Jstgao s..rp....                   of tSta. -aa..* o4d  -0.3 4034 d-     ..   italy.
0tk   3.      ti.4..- 3. 4.4ll.4.rw  411414410o 144 3.1t m.o.4
P3144.       :m3 ht.3..414 104.1.lt.  40 I Pt. 14 9 14 ft.                   4.131"
a1444l4041 404-   1. - 3    1.4    AT1 .41.4r- I4.1t, 3444.e-    gt
4.143. 31131 3,0.41 144. .4wIll141  .4444  134 441. 40                    `1j.0.I- ..44341-4 - 44   e-.344444
40 4.3131331        I.3..L 1111.419   141  14.11.4.                       7     V.44    0   ..413474.3  a37..404-4.13
~4ha44 .31 111  a 1.43..                                                        4.T.444,.4449-  140.3  ~ o-141.140.4   343134 -  l oth.a. ,  4*44  4.4
f44 31. 0. tt4411141 3sm.  -d       44.310  144 .544Soon41 340                           4314413  .131.4.        I?Fa    r
4.Sy  ham.. 4413 4   34ss      .           d....0kStI  -d4~a..... aogsa...                                         4314444-4.10    t..
45,41.11.. 10  11.11. -44..WC -                a1444  0.4  ftnr 3.                        -I,445     II141  40 P134 -3.  1.11t * 41.  4440*11400 4T.
4.4.4431443 354. two.4.  3.0lo4dat.                                                  143110   .0.4344.443444  - h*.1 *                      tta4444..41.1.43
403 31444.14 314390.44.  44orb.                    or -b3443.                   .14f 14  R34.-41..Sba                                     a    _"
,oar'Moatt              140tf    363.$dL14-.    . P"                                    097*1o
C." &-a    to Co 4r 5- Aa41.  4.4511. p. O.-5d atl 0.4-  3.                        4.3-"I-.3111.14.
PO4111 t4.4; 34111 1317.-ragoo4 4.l31 L. 31"0. 1930. O".                          144445  44334   11. p4410-4.r 9.9.1413..t; -31.6r*..
1443t.A,              --      .    e      f!R.1  nb214-ataaw. S.4 so44411 14401414 f                                              -0It341 .0  4. 3.113t3.4 .1.44.
4401 910...b                    111144. -S         l  LI,r        3414                  141. 31, 4.Ia 4314; 4.34  444.1   313731041044141
11..4   414  . 1 3 4.                                                                    14.1 ~11-343.4.. 4.31..4 44143.   Tv                  1. --4.1
3 p14114..141   131 4441114.  k4..43a .44.44144414            4 ha .31 I-  31_ p-.41 1 34...4...41..                            L 44*
4314401. 41311.4... 4313.51.. 4.04.3134.  , at."  ao" mad.                ft.s   14441.1 4d.111.4.44t p-. 4113  -. .    t 10. 3 
40444    141d t  .444044" .41.3. 44. 4.d114 4  .0.1 p1133.1 P". 4-.                    *k1.4--  144.-4 - 10  41m1-434  .443.1  t44- 4. 43                  4
404.40aa   114o   ' OaVF1144).  4.1.54  3L14. ad44.A. .3..4.4 44047 tam3L433.01111.
40t.A   dta-- ~               f&s          -.      f-b~           g .                       -I.
"Y41. -4. 10.1  133..-m -""          oo 1   .13.    I...131   3314. 4.4.3.             431414443.4134   464   344"392 4...p.&   a. 
pa~.1 -41 1.4t 314  144k.1%I`43 40.14.. atid 414.1 14.3      -.   .                 !jr4040)o. il 4144   3.0. 34-.  I 44411 1113414
movair4La01t 544  3113444.    FAD441014  l- pa".111.41141 ae .4w4. 31r40.1-WC 144   .s   I  .3404. rLo"  1131t4. 4
at'al1111? _4 %.1011  313144.113  t11-p4t.41 t31414.hdy aot14..                                      oarlp W34404.i146   4431.1 1404r N.,l; 140. 111 L 40331  ft.14
3114701.440  47 3-1.31431 43403144304also3tt341h 343. (                                                     -.3   a- o.tI   -f. r.13 .I L14..13t3141 44
4.13. wa.4.. 44  4.11  04...4  h 41111.  aPCo P.,1414. 4.                         140.1934 40d 1143 dot...7414444.30    4119144
11144"f014"I4.31 l314   144145.351  .44334.31W.  I.WFP10   -94 P                                    "    4.114 43      . -14413  404411 W.444p 45  -14
441..                                                                    01411 435333U5p4331y PAt1.  k.-S
4433 1...11 ata.t1 1f01461     33.4044) .3  -4  4.4.?. 447v .1 Ioad.4                    C                   44   11  .410    84).3134   1
40rl8. 4-o 4.4114   4.- 334. 1443. 3140. 397)4-a3313414.                               0.1014
414111;I160  441 .4PM3  40.                                                      .4I.33  1111A W14114  11441.3 140131.I e
"A44 "34.11. 4414 3i.4   04..44143   4 141.141 40.4r"LI.t44-44*l3.. 144   ...3.115  414.    .4  I  41
441 p 4 4. 3140134. 33               Lra or640   34434  453a 414.                 14434.4 31-114  4431-r141114  14-111413   3444
M4~4l .1  e4. 1140  .444. 14 ..~l~~f44   1314.l baroala. 40 1444                amr.43140443  V4411 I334.44.   1.44  4.                     4I 
10414 44 4312.) (411  ...0.*am   of VW401  1114   posa04414."aa   So 4.31              *4o3.l4.43.f.                                                .
troa. 401   1141.1 143114  at1 solos       14 .1    434 o-aa. Ctoo                   l4144.153too1443134144  33144111040  47.4 
0431101414.  1154 3.4 3101 4414.14.041..6311   0101441. ,s3" "M                                            M44  144   4 a.4144  4.4443  4
34443.  t14  .a         C. 410.P.. lesat rapa4t 411. P0 400 or.  444..4.4445.414  4143   140..
So *   t.mas4 0. Fetly.4 1401r1 44d1.43.41   41711113141.3.ta414131.  1t1   14  e.  411.    3
Y0 S.p1.6 ch1.13  11_I    aadaoo.                       S=037T4 31141I4-
317 34344 "  1A ...   33..41.14.144.30134.       T....4SM.4  403. AM                                                                            . ...



c   c         v3mo=m 198ZAS bi                        _Ai am 0-                                Cc,  ca.    PricesJ
155/56-1959160  060/'6-196&/5  L95/66-1956/70  197071-I1974175  1975176-1979M
uss &z_   2
at g_c  hm.                      170.7I    10-0                  3_7              3J6              3.7             2.9             41
aCos  n        Z nl               4_C99   256-
cou   Eomlm  s_sa                 33U12   2L.3
Caz    CO    ae.m               - 3.37  - 2.3
.3 . tAw0   Wm nriuro    13 1961
1.1. aUai (at fato c                   rot)    Il 1    _ P erMocke
U -s s               az           -                  _    :
hg     aT.                        U-51.7              3.2       7L27    70.6                   50
zmy                               35.2                233 3                19 1M114           1l5
Servce                            60.4                41.0        60.3    14.5    1I54        29
Cecal CGove        ae o                         CiNtra Go.a_
2. 3,_ .      S       f cup                 an. S3-            I of CW
1162t3    1i2/63  -17`t-1M623               119623    1962/3   1913/29-I119=13
mica                      333.34      23            9.5               175_61      10.7          10.5
3G0.9     20.7          1.0   -            IL59         U._S         10.
e          surpZuawfaf            - G-75    - 0.4            0.5              -   9e       - 0.8        - 04
C6          _        f             131.2      8L0            LL                 95.l3        5.3          5.7
:.l  saeatmm  Ct)                   19330      L2            1.0
.9w     iyd=  am mmi           1970M   1         19177  1977 3/79  2979130  1160/3  1361/3  1962/6  Pabruar-, 1963 VaeUar 16
30..  I9 Oado u                    109.8   224.J      320.1    011   423    53_5   624.9   723.           711.7         845.7
=k CrM  ato I              C (na)   54.6   1063    137-3   15.3   200.1   257.2   309.1.  352.4           353.5         40.
-    1z to Cmmtial  Seto            64.6   156.2   212.2   255_3   31I0.    3a35   630.5   505             3-7          576.4
O7urec    or laden par.)                               pr-fob 1962/33  erJ-Fab 1133"
3..., ma Q'Aai mumy as a I
cc CDP                            27.3    30.3    36.7    41.1       "-.1    436    42.0    64.0
Ua3lom. Price Inamu
1171 - I1                        100.0   1.0    35.8    15         217.6   2S,73   201.4    M.6         203.              314.
A1    p       _ra     dl_ 1a
Mb2IAaa1. PritS 1Mftft               7.7    -L-I      5.2     -       17.1    13.2      9.4      2.6        2.3               9.3
-n  a_r to  0r            (Cme)     15.0    2Z_7    163    16.0    25.6    20.5    20.2    l4.0            21.0 sr           1s.9 hi
_Cr2?to Caeit a Sector              19.4    2t.7    1M       20.2    21.5    17I2    18.4    17.2          13.5_5            17.9 if
W          CmW  _C12   auti  I& at  m.tc pr         . a1ln 3.w1  3m  Ulm   rboda1gy. beer period 19  1331.
41 e_ba ct19a    to donea  So this tlA-  at Me ewurq  uac a rat pem"as darius thu vauald Cw-a&
i wick Notar ,. Crtnrl SctLt ical O19n,9. m
c          from      L lisaf atW  at facto couriam, Iac1dun oa o_eatin before fizuc eau .n   usbar.atJn  eftar Iat yw of
ls   dar
W     lbrId 3e rnlrnaa Ge    dL*int  se comeml_ml diJ ad    1.
I   m         I      Core sad StatS  bKe ula emn6
Tf   ul   _  anOm. to Phin   uca _e _em   tt    t.
i       _acerne  Chd   Ire  _nd-th 132  to  _-rabcom  1963.
h/ .2aer      cbae f ru_ -abcb 1163 to *-vabm7 1964.
I Tal labor P    a" p cr            baum  fr.m 1161 Cmman.   cluid  dets fow Aass.



kw 5 C15
-m mS'  WeUam Is 
er3.1mm                      - 7.60  / 6.*1n   *.Ams  - Simm lZ9
as (mc                                1-.63      574       S0o      am _                                        573        7
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1a.5 ?za                                                               46        61St
tomb  etXtb                    0        6
_hSe- 1.1mm                         - 6335  - *6.57    -  5.   3i50               .1.1      _    w              333       4
r    am                       30    0   5
1m    c3ms (MC) fr/            660       MG  - 35  -  60                                                          4
m   133        1.54      1.,                                            6-       I
3.5*       46
1.1m  a. _zrmc  -                   - 2,366  - a3.43    3.54    3 3
Gros 66ukrainc.                       2.431    Z.        3. 1     3.64                   .    . W        31. 113
_   _mcSm                        -  760  -  64  -                 M - 
_      _.  Fz  3W C-c)                *.13    1.03  630    1.360   1.2           i.uewo1       " DAIbwumi                19.6
au Or  USE o                            367  - 1.31         12      331                         1__ lI_I
Ls Sm  _ _ C-)                          3      2.31   -   3   -   3
G        C"um  Cmi   r) Al                     4.461    4.9*,    S.                Mr 3CiSz   31        1162163  .1    104 W     ..
mot oe       _ Cwmd YOM) *Bm                   3.46      2.,      1.49
D 253W                31 116 3
EMPOTo UC1M1WA  aI                    6.612    3.130    4. 613    3.US                                              ra 
_~  Ka
Ja   I6_ a10   S ci dm  I7      :  551.00 - ft 7.30
Be 1.60 -  60.13333
Sia-&Ecmw  zmn co em-imm1,  2:  SSLIS-  - ft 7.379v
~~~_ s3. LU-504156
lb 1.10 - IO.13m1
sptae_ oww7r   __               t     n    :tl.O - Sm UL
66 L     WS*31-r-)
=s~~~~~~T  _ S . - MCAu
out 0 oI.Ikrb 16                =$Iso  so 10.715e
$~~~~~~~~6 -A  -5.03
k/ 13me         ew a.1 Invetmen Zamm (met). 1.j. p.ymcm  me 101tmt m  6 cst            Isa1mm, ad cbmW  3ald1  3W. a"  sdu vm1cs 6. I
*atmat MeimanSm 6    cm_t_.
1   Sm     -   latf  et ' _oLtm    butl s.cl_d  ffea  _d9g z_em satoe%I  to icle    __l ecsx lam. ad g_o m _
of _wu_u_ Mt sw o  f eg=_c fec-.
a'     cm.Uascl  mg ~Mcw  pswome a fameSW Loam anm pinmemtq  of total cmgzmc gem.mps.
o" Zac1ud.m  -     mm  mijmse. to th v.1umtU. .e z0ewo an f10mLat  of tmmcmI rapewe                    .
ZI la1Um soi-



s. ~~~~~~~~~~~~Pw  I--of 4=
A.SATNMT OF MX LANSA   IDA CrEDIT
(As of arch 31, 1984)
US$ zilIion
Loan or Fiscal                                              (Set of Cgceliatwios)
Credit Year of
So.   1flAy-o-lan                                               IDA af    UndoisBkse 11
49 Loans/                                          1,766.5        -
85 Credits fully disbursed                             -      4,858.4           -
482-IN    1974    Karnatka Dairy                     -          30.0         10.28
521-I1    1975     jasthan Dairy                     -          27.7          4.78
598-IN    1976    Fertilizer Industry                -         105.0          0.21
604-IN    1976    Power Transmision nV               -         L50.0          0.13
610-1N   1976    Integrsted Cotton Developmet        -          18.0          0.95
1251-IN    1976    Andhra Pradesh Irrigation        145.0         -           37.55
1273-1I   1976    National Seeds I                   25.0         -           14.29
1335-U    1977    Bombay Urban Tranport              25.0 -       -            2.84
680-U    1977    Kerala Agric. Development            -         30.0         10.19
682-U    1977    Orissa Agric. Deelopment            -          20.0          1.86
685-U    1977    singrauli Themi Power                -        150.0          2.82
690-3    1977     West Bengal Agricultural
Extenion & Resedar              -          12.0         8.92
1394-N    1977    Gujarat Fisheries                  14.0         -            4.08
712-i    1977    K.P. Agric. D     celopmet           -          10.0         0.29
720-U    1977    Periyar Vaigmi Irrigation           -          23.0          4.00
72B-U    1977    Assa  Agricultural Dev' ipet        -           8.0          3.38
736-IU   1978    Nabarashtra Irrigatio               -          70.0          1.91
747-UJ   1978    Second Foodgrain Storage             -        107.0         56.87
756-IU    1978    Calcutta Urban Developmet rr        -         87.0          1.88
761-U    1978    Bihar Agric. ztension &
esearch                         -           8.0         5.22
1511-IU   1978    101 JointPublic Sector             25.0         -            1.97
1549-U    1978    Third Trambay Thermal Poer        105.0         -            4.20
788-U    1978    Karnataka Irrigation                -         117.6         45.64
793-IN    1978     orba Thezaal Power                -         200.0         33.59
806-UN   1978    J-Kssbmir Horticulture              -          14.0         10.76
808-IU   1978    Gujarat Irrigation                   -         85.0          3.99
815-IU    1978    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries           -           17.5         9.51
816-IU    1978    National Seeds II                   -         16.0          6.74
1592-U    1978    Tetec_nuications VII               120.0        -           20.61
824-IU   1978    Ratioal Dairy                        -        150.0         60.67
842-IU    1979    Bombay Water Supply 1I             -         196.0        148.04
844-I    1979       ailway Nodernizatieu
& Maintenance                    -         190.0        34.79
848-IN    1979    Ppnjab Water Supply & Sewerage     -          38.0          6.88
855-I    1979    Rational Agricultursl Research      -          27.0         15.87
862-U    1979    Composite Agricultural Extemion   -            25.0          4.82
871-U    1979    National Cooperative Developmnt
Corporation                      -          30.0          1.76
1648-IU   1979      Smsgundm Thermal Power           50.0         -           50.00



ANE II
Page 2 of 4
US$ milo
Ladn or Fiscal                                              (set of Cancellations)
Credit  Ye"r of
NIo.    Approval       Puzuose                       1an         Im. jj       is        
874-IN    1979    lamdam Therml Power                 -         200.0         18.95
889-IN    1979    Punjab Irrigation                   -         129.0         48.83
899-IN   1979    Nabarashtra Water Supply             -          48.0         12.19
911-IN    1979    Rurl Electrification Corp. II       -         175.0         16.16
925-IN    1979    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry       -          23.0          5.42
954-IN    1980    rabsraahtra Irrigation II           -         210.0         58.97
961-IN    1980    Cajarat Comunity Forestry           -          37.0         10.82
963-IN    1980    Inlad Fisheries                     -          20.0         16.86
981-IN    1980    Population II                       -          46.0         30.84
1003-IN    1980    Tmil Nadu Nutrition                 -          32.0         21.19
1011-in    1980    Gajaat Irrigation  I-                         175.0        111.93
1012-IN    1980    C"aewnut                            -          22.0         16.98
1027-IN   1980     Singrauli Thermal II                -         300.0        172.64
1028-IN    1980    Kerala Agricultural  xtiensxon      -          10.0          8.08
1033-IN    1980    Calcutta Urban Transport            -          56.0         21.32
1034-IN    1980    Karataka Sericulture                           54.0         35.56
1046-IN    1980    Rajasthan Water Supply & Seerage  -            80.0         57.17
1843-IN    1980    Industry D3FC XIII                100.0         -            7.71
1687-IN    1980    Farakka Thermal Power              25.0         -           25.00
1053-IN    1980    Farakka Thermal Power               -         225.0        118.94
1897-IN    1981    Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                30.0         -           22.73
1925-IN    1981    Bombay Nigh Offshore Development 400.0          -            2.92
1072-IN    1981    Biar Rural oads                     -          35.0         17.11
1078-IN    1981    Naba-di Barraes                     -          83.0         51.69
1082-IN    1981    Nadras Urban Development II         -          42.0         20.91
1108-IN    1981    M.P. Iediu  Irrigation              -         140.0         9.94
1112-IN    1981    Telecommunications VIII             -         314.0        111.50
1116-IN    1981    Karmataka Tank Irrigation           -          54.0         41.97
1125-Il    1981    Razira Fertilizer Project           -         400.0        165.74
1135-IN    1981    Nabarashtra Agricultural Ext.       -          23.0         15.75
1137-IN   1981     TaIil Nadu Agricultural Ext.        -          28.0         19.09
1138-IN    1981    M.P. Agricultural Ext. II           -          37.0         30.42
1146-IN    1981    National Cooperative
Development Corp. II             -         125.0         80.24
1172-IN    1982    Korba Thermal Pover Project II      -         400.0        297.60
1177-IN   1982      Iadhya Pradesh Major Irrigation    -         220.0        175.64
2050-IN   1982     Tamil-Nadu Newsprint              100.0         -           28.41
1178-IN    1982    West Bengal Social Forestry         -          29.0         22.42
1185-IN    1982  - upur Urban Development              -          25.0         18.67
2051-IN    1982    ICICI xiv                         150.0         -           81.49
2076-IN   1982     Rsagundam Thermal Power II        300.0         -          300.00
2095-IN    1982    ARDC IV                           190.0         -            5.43
1219-IN    1982    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.   -            6.0          5.05
2123-IN    1982    Refineries lationalization        200.0         -          123.52
2165-IN    1982    Rural Ilectrification III         304.5         -          290.68
2186-IN    1982    Kallads Irrigation                 20.3         -           20.00
1269-IN    1982    Kallada Irrigation                  -          60.0         34.69
1280-IN    1983    Gujarat Water Supply                           72.0         66.53
1286-IN    1983    Jamu/1Ksbmir and



Page 3 of 4
Loan or Fiscal                                                (Met of CancllatJi
Credt  Year of
,F 21    A,^Vrov        pr e                           DEgoda "  it
laryan  Social Forestry           -           33.0         27.65
1288-I1    1983     C lbl  adhya ftadh                   -           -
Irrigation UX                     -           31.0         22.87
1289-IN    1983     Subruawrekba Irrigation              -         127.0        117.32
2205-IN    1983     KrisDbn-Godavari Exploration       165.5         -           148.22
2210-IN    1983     Railways Nodermizatiom &
Na4itenauce 1I                   200.0         -          197.04
1299-IN    1983     Rai-ways kodernizatimn &
Nainetnauce II                    -          200.0        192.83
2241-IN    1983     South lass*ia Gas Developueet      222.3         -           133.71
1319-1N    1983     Naryan. Irrigation II                -         150.0        129.18
1332-IN    1983     U.P. Public !ubewslls II             -         101.0          96.62
1356-IN    1983     Upper indravati Kydro Power          -         170.0        158.07
2278-IN    1983     upper Indravati Nydro rower        156.4         -           156.01
1369-IN    1983     Calcutta Urbai Deuelopa.t III        -         147.0        145.05
1383-IN    1983     Mbaarashtra  ater Utilition          -          32.0         31.13
2308-IN    1983     Nharahtra Water Utilization         22W          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983     Central Power Transmission         250.7         -           250.07
2295-IN    1983      imalayan Watersbed Man gement      46.2         -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      dbtaya Pradesh Urban               24.1         -            24.04
1397-IN    1984     Orissa Irrigation Ir                 -         105.0          97.97
1424-IN    1984     Rainfed Areas Watershed Dsv.         -          3L.0         31.0
1426-IN    1984     Population III                       -          70.0         70.0
1432-IN    1984     Karuataka Social Forestry            -          27.0          27.0
1454-IN    1984     TaLil Iadu Water Supply*             -          36.5         36.5
Total                                   5,183.2   12.015.7
of which has been repaid              1.29L.8       153.5
Total now outstanding                  3,684.4    11,862.2
Acount Sold                   133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8         -           -
Total now held by lank and IDA j,      3,884.4    11,862.2
Total undisbarsed (excludin  *)         2,021.25    3,701.25
jj  IDA Credit  iounts for SDR-denominated Credits are *zprssed in tor=s of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the tim of Credit negotiations gnd as
subsequently presented to the Board.
O Undisbursed mouncts for SDK-denouinated IMD Credits are derived from cw alative
disbursemats converted to their VS dollar equivalents at the SIRIU dollar
exchange rate in effect on March 31, 1954.
]/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESSTKES
(As of March 31, 1984)
Amount (US$ million)
Fiscal.
'year                   C-ompany                     Loan   E3uity    Total
1959            Republic Forge Company Ltd.           1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.            0.8        -        0.8
1960            Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.3. Pumps Ltd.                     0.2        -        0.2
1963-66         Precision Bearings India Ltd.         0.6       0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster industries Ltd.          0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.        11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Laksabi Machine Works Ltd.            1.0       0.3       1.3
1S67            Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.               1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.            15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                       6.6        -        6.6
1978            Housing Development Finance
Corporation                           4.0       1.2      5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.       7.5       1.2      8.7
1981            Coromaudel Fertilizers Limited       15.9                15.9
1981            Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.   38.0          -       38.0
1981            Nahindra, Eshindra Limited           15.0        -       15.0
1981            Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.           2.9       0.3       3.2
i9gi            Ragarjuns Signode Limited             2.3        -        2.3
1981            Nagarjuza Steels Limited              1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Asbok Leyland Limited                28.0        -       28.0
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.            18.8        -      18.8
1982            Ibarat Forge Company Ltd.            15.8        -       15.8
1982            The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.           8.3        -        8.3
1984            The Owalior Rayon Silk Kanu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.       4.3        -43
TOTAL GROSS COMMlTMEN15        211.8      12.1    223.9
Less:   Sold                         53.0       3.4     56.4
Repaid                      32.0         -      32.0
Cancelled                   16 s        1.4     17.4
Now Held                    110.8       7.3    118.1
_r       _ _
Undisbursed                  81.2        -      81.2
o     _      - __



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
KERAIA SOCIAL FORESTRY PtOJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the countrY to prepare the proiect
15 months.
(b) The azencl which has prepared the proiect
The Government of Kerala, assisted by the Association.
Cc) Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the proiect
October 1983; January/February 1984.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 1984.
Ce)  Date of completion of nenotiations
June 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1984.
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:    Snecial Couditions
(a) The Government of Kerala would, within specified dates:
Ci)  finalize arrangements for sale of fuelvood
by June 30, 1986 (paragraph 45);
(ii) review the nurseries scheme annually and
submit a report to IDA (paragraph 48);
(iii)  complete the wood supply and demand study
by December 31, 1985 (paragraph 51);
(iv) fill vacant positions (paragraphs 52 and 53); and
(v)  carry out a mid-term reviev (paragraph 54).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) GOK would consult IDA regardiug introduction of any new
social forestry programs other than activities financed
under the project (paragraph 64).



IBRD 18106
r7                    APRIL 1984
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
_12e~~~~~                                                                              ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 120r
\ NNANORE                                         KARNATAKA
-R>n  t     . t - o-        _T. -,
0 ~ ~ ~ \ pm0w Regiona so1x                                                    TAMIL
o  o  tr Hw                                      'RMs Cal                               NADU                   19
Sod,                          _ Tyes            --"            T. Aw       M  I
-   Laterite Sod              300
. ---Blackc Satil     .          ..... IcaK )/
- -Peat Ka ri Sd355P                                            L(      K     8T   "
. II and Forest Soil
tSandy Soil                      3G    .o50              /1
Red Soi I                                G w-
---Normal Rainfall (inceimeers)
-RoodsG _
-10    (3  Store Copitcl                             310
e  District Capitols
o  Selected Towns *
District Bons/naso
d~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ 'i a'0    - --55*
> ~~300    ,.
> 0,-0-                                                                                                                go
r~                                                             ;     U I                       To- 4ftj,'
INDIA~~~~
I N D I A          |,  ''S'Z'        , J
.                            ~~~~~~~0_  25    50      75      100        ;              
KILOMETERS
-                         ~~~~~~750                                720






