Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  13588
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1514-IN)
OCTOBER 6, 1994
Agriculture Operatins Division
India Department
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1514-IN)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Name of currency (abbreviation) = Indian Rapee (Rs.)
Currency Exchange Rate:
Appraisal Year Average (1984/85):            US$ 1.00 = Rs.11.89
Intervening Year Average (1985/86-1991/92):    US$1.00 = Rs.15.94
Completion Year Average (1992/93):           US$1.00 = Rs.26.41
FISCAL YEAR
GOI and all States: April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
CPCRI                          Central Plantation Crops Research Institute
ERR                            Economic Rate of Return
FD                             Forestry Department
GOI                            Government of India
GOK                            Government of Kerala
KAU                            Kerala Agricultural University
KFRI                           Kerala Forest Research Institute
KSFP                           Kerala Social Forestry Project
M & E                          Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR                            Mid-Term Review
NGO                            Non-Government Organization
SAR                            Staff Appraisal Report
SFW                            Social Forestiy Wing
WB                             World Bank



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Of foe Dof.atotoe-G&~
Opwatonm Evaluaon
October 6, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
Subject:     Project Completion Report oll India
Kerala Social Forestry Project (Credit 1514-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on India: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Credit
1514-IN), approved in 1984. Parts I and II were prepared by the South Asia Regional Office and
Part II was prepared by the Borrower.
The project was the sixth in a series of ten Bank-supported social forestry projects in India.
The main objectives of the project were to increase farmers' incomes and self-sufficiency in wood
products; establish plantations to increase production of fuelwood, poles, and small timber; and
strengthen the Social Forestry Wing of the Forest Department. The project included a component
to promote production of medicinal plants and benefit tribal people.
The project satisfactorily met its main objectives: incomes have been improved; wood
production has been increased; soil erosion has been reduced; and institutional capacity for social
forestry in Kerala has been strengthened. Returns to plantation investment are higher than expected
at appraisal because of high value wood production. These achievements were made possible because
the project was implemented flexibly. The appraised project was not closely tailored to agroecological
conditions in Kerala, nor to the priorities of stakeholders. The blanket approach to farm forestry
adopted by Bank-supported social forestry projects in India was successfully modified during
implementation.  The project did not, however, benefit the tribal population significantly, and the
modest targets set at appraisal for this component were reduced following the Mid-Term Review.
The quality of the PCR is satisfactory, with one exception: the weak performance of the
tribal forestry component is not explained. But in this and other regards, the PCR findings of the
Bank and the Borrower are consistent.
The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory, with modest institutional development
impact. Sustainability is uncertain because the future availability of financial resources to operate and
maintain project components appears to be in doubt. The project may be audited.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard K6pp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1514-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE                       ......................................................  i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ......................................................................... iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ......................... .                  1
1.     Project Identity ...............................  1
2.   Background ...............................                                                 1
3.     Project Objectives and Description ...............................  2
4.     Project Design and Organization ...............................  2
5.     Project  Implementation ...............................                                  3
6.     Project Results  .............................  8
7.     Project Sustainability ...............................                                  10
8.     Bank Performance ................................................................................. 10
9.     Borrower  Performance .......................                                           10
10.   Project Documentation and Data ..................... 10
11.  Lessons Learned .......................                                                  11
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ............ ............. 13
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ....................................................... 40
1.     Related  Bank  Loans and/or Credits ...............................                    40
2.     Project Timetable ............................... 40
3.     Credit Disbursements ............................... 41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performunce of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



4.    Project Implementation .............................                          41
A.   Physical Targets and Achievements .............................. 41
B.    Staffing, Civil Works and Vehicles ....................... ............................. 42
5.    Project Cost and Financing         ............................. 43
A.   Project  Cost ..............................                            43
B.    Project Financing .............................. 43
6.    Project Results .............................. 44
A.   Direct Benefits .............................. 44
B.    Economic  Impact .............................                         45
C.    Financial Impact .............................. 45
D.   Price of Outputs .............................. 45
7.    Status of Covenants ............................. 46
8.    Use of Bank Resources  .............................. 47
A.   Staff Inputs (staff weeks) ..............................               47
B.    Mission Data .............................. 48
TABLES
1.  Exchange Rate and Inflation Factors .49
2. Cost Overruns.                                                                   50
ANNEX 1: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION. .                                    5 1



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr.1514-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Kerala Social Forestry Project for
which Credit 1514-IN for SDR 30.6 million (US$31.8 million equivalent) was approved on July
31, 1984. SDR 4.5 million was cancelled on December 5, 1991 during the funds redeployment
exercise. The Credit closed on March 31, 1993, 15 months behind schedule. Final disbursement
from the Credit was made on August 19, 1993 and the balance of SDR 1.3 million was cancelled.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, and Parts I and III of this report were prepared by
an FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission which visited India in September/October
1993. Part II was prepared by the Government of Kerala (GOK).
Preparation of this report is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the legal
documents, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal
Bank memoranda and reports, field visits and discussions with the Kerala Forestry Department and
the Bank staff in New Delhi and Washington.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1514-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.        The main objectives of the project were to increase farmers' incomes and self-
sufficiency in wood products through plantation of trees, making special efforts to involve tribal
people; increase fuelwood, small timber and poles by establishing plantations on land belonging to
the Government and other institutions; and strengthen the Social Forestry Wing of the Forest
Department and related institutions with provision for investment in extension, research and
training.
Implementation Experience
2.        The project was implemented over a period of eight years and four months as against
the six years planned at appraisal.  Total planted area surpassed the appraisal targets.
Implementation of the institutional development component was slow at the start, and the targets
for additional staffing and vehicles were still not met at completion. The number of private
nurseries which emerged during project operations, exceeding the appraisal estimate, declined
dramatically following the discontinuation of the buy-back arrangement towards the end of the
project. Seedling quality improvement undertaken by the project included identification of "plus
trees" for seed production and collection, and formulation of seedling grading standards.
However, limited attention was given to the management of "plus trees," and seed procurement for
project plantations continued to be from uncertified sources and with limited quality control.
Seedling grading standards were not used in day-to-day project operations, partly because of the
large scale seedling production. Plant mortality was high. Technical guidance and supervision
provided for private nurseries was not up to the level recommended at appraisal, and the project
initiatives did not lead to major technological improvements either in nursery operations or in
plantation development and management.
3.        Farm forestry has been dominated by  high value timber species compared to
casuarina, acacia and eucalyptus recommended at appraisal. This change in stand composition has
arisen from the farmers' preference for species of commercial value. Establishment of plantations
on government lands has prevented further degradation of these sites. Similarly, plantations in
coastal areas have become effective shelter-belts against wind and water-induced erosion.
Plantations in institutional lands have not been protected well, resulting in illicit felling and damage
to growing stock. Given the high literacy rate in Kerala, the project's publicity efforts have
worked well. However, the expectation that the existing agricultural extension system would
provide follow-up guidance did not materialize.
4.         Compared to several social forestry projects in other parts of India, the implementation
of the project's research component has been successful. Training activities, however, have come
to a stand-still following the termination of the project and the training facilities established under
the project remain underutilized due to budgetary constraints. For the same reasons, new
plantations have recorded a sharp decline after project closure and the services of almost all the



iv
staff belonging to the Social Forestry Wing are not fully utilized. The actual cost of implementing
the project was Rs.897 million - with about 50 percent increase over the appraisal estimate of
Rs.599 million (US$54.5 million).
Results
5.         The project proved successful in achieving its main objectives: it has improved
farmers' income earning opportunities, increased wood production, helped check water and wind
erosion, and strengthened institutional capacity. It did not, however, benefit the tribal population
significantly. The expected returns from plantation investments are far higher than anticipated at
appraisal, mainly due to the high value wood production. A key accomplishment has been the
strengthening of FD for implementing a larger statewide social forestry programme capable of
generating benefits in the long term.
Sustainability
6.         Sustainability of several of the activities initiated through the project is in doubt
because of the non-availability of budgeted funds.
Lessons Learned
7.         The key lessons learnt in the implementation of the project are as follows:
8.         A blanket approach to farm forestry, similar to that adopted for other social forestry
projects in the country, was followed, irrespective of prevailing farmning systems characterized by
tree and annual crops in Kerala. Tree species provided under this approach (mainly for fuelwood
and fodder) were at variance with farmers' preference for commercial species. In the design and
formulation of the projects, macro-level data should be reconciled with locality-specific
data/information in order to ascertain the perception and priorities of different stakeholders. For
example, surveys to determine species preferences of farmers, market prospects, and site
compatibility should have preceded the design of the project and would have led to more accurate
predictions of planting material requirements.
9.         Contrary to expectations at appraisal, farmers plant trees on their own land primarily
to obtain cash incomes, rather than to meet their domestic fuelwood needs. The project's fuelwood
production goals, therefore, could have best been achieved by plantations on public land.
10.        While free or subsidized seedling distribution contributed positively to the
achievement of the project's planting targets, in the short termn, it tended to undermine the fiscal
sustainability of the project after the completion of the disbursement period.
11.        While designing project implementation units (e.g. Social Forestry Wing) for
execution of defined project activities, consideration should be given to the eventual integration of
the unit with other wings of the FD structure, thereby meeting sectoral requirements for human
resources. This has the advantage of promoting staff morale and ensuring the long-term stability
of the organization.



1
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1514-IN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PESPECTIVE
1. Project Identity
Project Name            Kerala Social Forestry Project
Credit No.              1514-IN
RVP Unit                South Asia Region
Country                India
Sector                  Forestry
2. Background
2.1        Kerala, with about 29 million people and 39,000 km2 of total geographical area, is
the most densely populated (700 persons/km2 or three times the national average) state in India.
About 29 percent of its land area is under forests, and 60 percent under cultivation. More than 90
percent of the landholdings in the state are less than 1.0 ha in size, and land use involves a mix of
several crops including trees (rubber, coconut, arecanut, and cashew - often intercropped - which
account for over 60 percent of the cropped area), and foodcrops (paddy and tapioca) and spices
(pepper and cardamom). The state contains a large number of enterprises engaged in the
production of plywood, veneer, pulp and paper, which use wood as raw material and fuel. In
recent decades, forested areas available for exploitation have declined and sources of fuelwood
supply have not expanded in pace with the growing demand from the increasing population. To
alleviate the situation, the Government of Kerala (GOK) has been implementing since 1982 a series
of social forestry schemes which have shown the potential for increasing both wood production
and farm incomes.
2.2        The Kerala Social Forestry Project (KSFP), implemented with World Bank
assistance, represented the largest of such schemes and covered the entire state of Kerala. It was
also the sixth in the series of ten projects in India supported by the Bank with total IDA credits of
some US$500 million, mostly for social forestry development in several other states of India
including Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Karnataka,
Rajasthan, I-limachal Pradesh and Maharashtra. In addition, a Forestry Research, Education and
Training project has recently been appraised at an estimated cost of US$56.4 million with
institutional and physical infrastructure components.



2
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.1        The objectives of KSFP were to: (a) increase farmers' incomes and self-sufficiency
in wood products through their plantation of trees, making special efforts to involve tribal people;
(b) increase production of fuelwood, small timber and poles by establishing plantations on
available government lands, along railroads, canal banks, roadsides and coastal belts, and grounds
of educational and other institutions; (c) reduce the effects of water and wind erosion, and lessen
pressure on existing forests; and (d) strengthen the existing Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of the
Forest Department (FD) and related institutions, and their capability to conduct a statewide social
forestry programme which would yield benefits in the long-term. Project components included:
plantation activities (85,300 ha) including farm forestry (69,200 ha), large and small block
plantations on government lands (11,000 and 1,000 ha respectively), plantations along coastal,
railway, roadside and canal strips (2,000 ha), special (tribal) fuelwood plantations (2,000 ha), and
medicinal plants (100 ha) pilot scheme, plantation protection, extension and publicity, training,
research and studies, and institutional development.
3.2        As appraised in 1984, this project was to be implemented over a period of six years at
a total estimated cost of US$54.5 million (Rs.599 million) including an IDA Credit of US$31.8
million. The Credit became effective in March 1985, providing for retroactive financing from
January 1984.
4. Project Design and Organization
4.1        The project design appropriately focused on the key elements of assistance required
for the implementation of a large-scale social forestry programme in the state. It correctly
emphasized a low-cost farm forestry component (81 percent of the total planting target area),
complementing it with needed infrastructure and support services including
orientation/reorientation training for the staff of the Forestry Department and related institutions.
The project also sought to address, on a pilot scale, poverty alleviation concerns through support to
the tribal population (tribal fuelwood and medicinal plants component). Small and large block
plantations on public land aimed at reducing pressures on existing forests, and minimizing water
and wind erosion. Seedling pricing has been an area of concern from the early stages of the project
cycle. At appraisal, it was expected that a limited number of seedlings - 500 casuarina and 500 of
other species - would be distributed free to each participating farmer and seedlings in excess of this
free limit should be paid for at the actual financial cost of production. This was intended to meet
the requirements of small farmers and gradually build up incentives for the transfer of this
operation eventually to the private sector. For reasons explained in para 5.21, this strategy has
been neither effective nor practicable.
4.2        In order to give singular attention to social forestry development, special provision
was made to strengthen the capacity of the Social Forestry Wing in the Forestry Department to
implement the project. In retrospect, however, it would appear that adequate attention was not
given at the formulation stage to the possibility of integrating the functions of the Social Forestry
Wing and other wings, e.g. Territorial Forestry Wing of the Forestry Department. Similarly, there
was inadequate recognition of the need to align the project proposals with those of ongoing
projects for the development of tribal communities living in forest areas. Past experience shows
that the Forest Department alone could not advance the interest of the tribal population through tree
planting without supplementary investments which would generate quick returns (e.g nurseries,
medicinal plants processing/marketing and small ruminants production).



3
5. Project Implementation
5.1        The project was implemented over a period of eight years and four months instead of
six years as planned at appraisal. The Credit Agreement was amended on three occasions
(September 1989, October 1990, and November 1991), to allow a higher proportion of the costs to
be met by IDA. The project underwent a Mid-Term Review in 1987, and a revision in December
1990, when the Government of India (GOI) and World Bank (WB) decided to extend the project
until 31 March 1993. Following this and the 1991 Credit amendment, planting targets were
increased from 85,300 to 127,100 ha. The increased target covered mainly farm forestry (87,000
ha) and large block plantations (37,000 ha) and was financed from Credit savings resulting from
the devaluAtion of the rupee. There were no major changes in other components.
5.2        Plantation targets. Total planted area surpassed appraisal target by 32 percent but
did not reach (by 12 percent) the expanded target set at project extension. As shown in Part Ll4A
of the Report, there were shortfalls vis-a-vis the targets set at project extension in respect of area
planted under farm forestry (9 percent), large block plantations (27 percent), and tribal fuelwood
plantations (10 percent). On the other hand, there was an increase in the area under small block
plantations (170 percent). The tribal medicinal plants scheme met its revised target. As compared
to appraisal expectations, strip plantations achieved only 54 percent of the targets, and the farm
forestry component registered a decline in its share of the total planted area from 81 percent to 71
percent. This was largely offset by the increased share of the second largest component, i.e. block
plantations (from 13 percent to 24 percent). Given that plantation densities were well below
appraisal estimates (see para 5.10), the total number of trees planted was below the appraisal
target.
5.3        Other targets. The institutional development component for strengthening the
Social Forestry Wing of the Forestry Department provided for incremental staffing (360), civil
works, mainly residential and office buildings (521), and vehicles (359). Implementation was slow
at the start, and the targets for additional staffing and vehicles were still not met at completion. Due
to largely local budget constraints, only 73 percent of the planned positions were filled, and 65
percent of the vehicles procured. Some of the divisional posts were filled with junior level officers
(e.g. Assistant Conservator of Forests instead of Deputy Conservator of Forests). In earlier years,
unduly low schedules of rates for civil works were reported to be main factors contributing to
contractor reluctance to take up construction work. These rates were later revised in 1991.
Although the total expenditure on civil works was less than the appraisal allocation (in US dollar
terms), the number of works completed exceeded the appraisal target by 36 percent. Residential
buildings accounted for the larger proportion of this increase and most of them were constructed
during the last two years of the project, utilizing a part of the Credit savings. Most of the buildings
have been well constructed and utilized for the intended purposes.
5.4       Private and departmental nursery development and production. Seedling
production for farm forestry and public plantations was to be achieved through the establishment of
a network of (1,055) private and (50) departmental nurseries. Family-operated (landowner and
two family members) nurseries of 80,000 to 110,000 seedlings per annum capacity were expected
to play an increasingly dominant role in seedling production. However, instead of targetting
individual families, project management promoted the involvement of voluntary groups and non-
governmental organizations (NGOs) in the establishment and management of these nurseries. This
was done to avoid any perceptions of favouritism in the selection of nursery operators, and for
equity considerations. Because of quick and high returns, several of the voluntary groups/ NGOs
participated. The success of this experience was influenced by timely disbursement of payments
due to them. Where project payments were delayed, even the motivated voluntary groups were
reluctant to continue with nursery operations.



4
5.5        The number of private nurseries, which exceeded the appraisal target by reaching a
maximum number of 3,168 in 1988-89, has since declined to 426 (in 1991-92) mainly in response
to the discontinuation of the buy-back arrangement followed under the project, whereby the project
purchased all seedlings produced for distribution to applicants. Most seedlings were raised in
polypots and their density was infuenced by polypot size.
5.6        Private nurseries produced, on average, 150 seedlings per m2 as against the
production rate of 100 seedlings/M2 estimated at appraisal. This is within the expected nursery
operational efficiency rates of projects of this kind. However, their unit size and capacity were
below th,e appraisal estimate. The Departmental nurseries (consisting of about 26,000 nursery
beds), with a seedling production rate of 150 to 160 seedlings/M2, continued to be the dominant
source of seedlings for private and public sector planting activities. At project completion, only 34
percent of total seedling producdon was from private nurseries, and the expectation that the private
sector would become the primary source of seedling production did not materialize.
5.7        Nursery technology and management. The project contributed to impart and
transfer improved nursery development and management technology to the private sector. This
was done through providing training and supplying the required inputs, e.g. seeds and polythene
bags, to the participating private nursery operators.
5.8        Surveys funded under the project have reported 40 percent plant survival in farm
forestry as compared to 55-60 percent in public plantations. This difference is attributable to high
rates of pre-planting seedling wastage (in farm forestry) rather than differences in the quality of
seedlings produced in private and public nurseries as surmised by some. Given the generally
favourable rainfall conditions in Kerala, the reported plant mortality rate is high.  Field
observations indicate that this could have resulted from high moisture stress (drought) - micro-
climatic conditions in the project area.
5.9           Seedling quality improvement initiatives undertaken by the project included
identification of "plus trees" for seed production and collection, and formulation of seedling
grading standards for important social forestry tree species. However, there was limited
management given to these "plus trees" (e.g for crown thinning and exposure for better seed
production), and seed procurement for project plantation activities continued to be primarily from
uncertified sources and with limited quality control. Seedling grading standards were not used in
day-to-day operations of the project, partly because of the scale of seedling production. Similarly,
no initiative at the seedling production stage was taken to improve farm forestry plant survival rates
by increasing seedling tolerance to moisture stress and drought, which 60 percent of farm forestry
survey respondents identified as the main factor in high plant mortality. These operational
difficulties could have been addressed by: (a) incorporating grading standards in the seedling
production system itself, i.e. by controlling seeding and seedling density; manipulating polypot
dimensions, and nursery bed or seedling nutrient management; and (b) favouring production of
seedlings with high root-shoot ratios by varying seedbed seedling density, polypot size, fertilizer
composition and frequency, and applying techniques like root-pruning. Technical guidance and
supervision provided for private nurseries was not up to the level recommended at appraisal (for
instance in 1988-89, the ratio of forester to the number of private nurseries was 1:16 as against the
recommended 1:5).
5.10       Private and public plantations establishment. Provision was made in the
project for the free distribution of seedlings, up to 3,000 casuarina and 500 seedlings of other
species, including eucalyptus and Acacia auriculiformis per family for farrn forestry. Over 80
percent of farm forestry planting has been done by farmers with holdings of less than one hectare.
Each beneficiary, on average, planted 25 seedlings, 95 percent of which were planted on farm



5
boundaries and homesteads. The established plantation composition, however, does not
correspond to Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) expectations. Instead of casuarina, eucalyptus and
acacia, farm forestry has been dominated by high value timber species such as ailanthus and teak.
These changes in stand composition have arisen from the farmers' preference for species
producing higher value products. A key characteristic of these changes is the need for increased
plant spacing (i.e. about 4 m2 per plant) which would lead to lower biomass production.
5.11       Casuarina and Acacia auriculiformis have been planted on public lands in line with the
appraisal report's proposals. The planting density for both species has been about 4,000 plants/ha
as compared to the high density of 4,500 and 10,000 plants per ha for acacia and casuarina
respectively, recommended in the SAR. Although the SAR recommended high density could be
consistent with the original main objective of the production component, i.e. fuelwood
production, it was inappropriate to the home-garden conditions of Kerala. The effective stand
density in established stands ranges from 2,000 to 2,223 trees/ha. Stands established under the
strip component are similar to block plantations in species mix and stand structure.
5.12       Plantation  management technology. Post-planting management in farm
forestry has only been carried out in block plantings which constitute only 5 percent of these
plantations. For teak block plantations, these include weeding and soil working, fertilization and
irrigation, and in some cases, branch pruning to improve stemwood quality. However, in the case
of boundary and homestead planting, no post-planting care has been taken of the trees as farmers at
this point do not see any value in the activity. Protection by fencing and harvest-scheduling have
been the only management activities carried out in respect of plantations on government land. Lack
of appropriate arrangements between the project and the participating institutions for protecting the
established plantations has led to illicit felling and removal of trees, particularly in strip and
institutional plantations.
5.13        The farm forestry plant survival rate estimate (40 percent) is based on the number of
seedlings distributed and not on plants actually planted by the beneficiary. Field observations
indicate that a significant proportion of the mortality has been a consequence of high seedling
wastage (i.e. seedlings distributed but not planted), especially in the early years of project
implementation. Some of the wastage could be attributed to the unrealistic emphasis on acacia and
casuarina seedling distribution. These species were less compatible with the existing farming
system and not preferred by the beneficiaries who were primarily interested in planting high-value
species like teak and ailanthus. These problems could have been minimized if appropriate pre-
plantation surveys had been carried out to determine farmers' preferences.
5.14       Furthermore, trends in survival rates (35 percent to 40 percent in farm forestry and 50
percent to 55 percent in public plantations) and productivity estimates (10 to 12m3/ha/yr as
compared to l5m31ha/yr), indicate that project initiatives did not lead to major technological
improvements in either nursery operations or plantation development and management. The
project did not address critical problems such as high mortality due to moisture stress and drought.
As discussed earlier, apart from actions aimed at increasing drought tolerance of seedlings through
improved nursery management, simple moisture conservation techniques including mulching
would have gone a long way in mitigating this problem. Similarly, the provision of marketing
guidance based on a standing tree girth to volume conversion table would have helped farmers to
estimate the volume of their wood production and enhanced their negotiating power at the time of
sale of their tree products.
5.15       The establishment of plantations on government land has prevented further
degradation of these sites. The coastal strip plantations have become effective shelter-belts against
wind and water-induced soil erosion. However, the present harvesting plans, which involve



6
almost total biomass harvesting, do not give adequate attention to soil nutritional aspects of
plantation management. Such a high level of biomass harvesting can result in 'export' of large
amounts of soil nutrients from these areas. Therefore, it would be essential that FD, while
developing silvicultural and harvesting regimes, gives due importance to this aspect of sustainable
wood production.
5.16       Protection arrangements. Another area of concern relates to lack of satisfactory
arrangements for protection of public plantations established, both in institutional and degraded
forest areas. The arrangements for long-terrn protection were not worked out in advance for
institutional plantations. Consequently, after the termination of FD's activities in these lands, the
benefiting institutions have not taken over protection responsibilities, resulting in illicit felling and
damage to growing stock. Plantations established in degraded forest areas face similar problems
due to lack of well-defined responsibilities for the local communities. Although, project
management organized about 300 village panchayat committees to protect these plantations, only
160 were actually established, and most of them remain non-functional.
5.17       Publicity and extension. The project's provision for publicity was mainly used
for dissemination of information through radio, film-shows and news media, and publication and
distribution of materials on nursery and tree planting techniques. Given the high rate (over 95
percent) of literacy in the state, this approach worked well. It resulted in creating awareness
among the public about the possibility and profitability of growing trees outside the traditional
forest lands. It also led to the emergence of a large number of voluntary organizations, including
women's associations, interested in operating nurseries and promoting farm forestry. The Social
Forestry Wing maintained good liaison with extension staff of the Agriculture Department and
made use of the available rural extension facilities, e.g. "Krishi Bhavans" (farmers' meeting
points) to propagate farm forestry and distribute seedlings. However, the expectation that the
existing agricultural extension system would lend support for providing follow-up guidance did
not materialize, as indicated by farm forestry survey results which show that up to 70 percent of
the beneficiaries did not receive any planting/post-planting extension advice.
5.18       Training. Training funds were mainly used for: (a) the construction of a training
centre in Arippa, situated at about 60 km away from Trivandrum; (b) Forest Department staff
training; and (c) training of farmers and representatives of voluntary organizations. The Arippa
Training Centre was constructed at a total cost of Rs. 11 million. All the civil works, including
classrooms (with a capacity for 200 trainees), dormitory, staff and guest quarters covering about
5.7 ha of land area, have been completed, and equipment and furniture procured as planned. GOK
has endowed the Centre with about 200 ha earmarked for its future expansion which, given the
land scarce situation in the state, reflects the state's recognition of the importance of forestry
training. Since it became functional in 1990, the facilities available in this Centre are reported to
have been used for training some 2,500 persons including representatives of panchayats and
NGOs, and agricultural extension workers (30 percent of whom were women), in social forestry
operations. Training activities have, however, come to a standstill following the termination of the
project. Consequently, the Centre now remains unused, due to lack of budget for training
activities.
5.19       Project funds were used both for domestic and overseas training. Three state-level
forestry officials benefitted from overseas training in communication technology and social
forestry. Some 34 senior forestry officials of the Social Forestry Wing participated in the project-
funded study tours to various national centres in forest administration and management, grassland
development, and agro-forestry. Orientation courses and seminars/workshops on social forestry
techniques were organized within the state in collaboration with the Kerala Agricultural University
and other institutions for about 850 FD staff. The project also conducted short-term orientation



7
courses for farmers, women's groups, student "nature" clubs, and representatives of voluntary
organizations. The short-term nature of the training courses organized, non-utilization of training
consultancies, and the apparent reluctance of the government to use Credit funds, especially for
overseas training, have contributed to the less than full use of the appraisal allocation.
5.20       Research and studies. In comparison to several WB-funded social forestry
projects in other parts of India, the project has been successful in the implementation of its research
component. A commendable aspect is the effective collaboration between the Forest Department
and research institutions in carrying out social forestry-related research. From the outset, the
advice of a Technical Committee consisting of representatives from the Social Forestry Wing,
Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI),
and Kerala Agricultural University (KAU), was used to identify research priorities and define the
scope of project research studies. The project financed a number of investigations relevant to
social forestry operations in the state and covering a range of subjects, e.g. wood supply and
demand, traditional and improved agro-forestry systems, seed collection procedures, and medicinal
plant propagation. Most of these studies were completed on time. The results of some of these
studies, e.g. Biomass Yield Tables with information on production allocation to different tree
components, and documentation/analysis of social and ecological dimensions of indigenous agro-
forestry systems in Kerala, could provide a sound basis for future planning of social forestry
development and management in the state.
5.21       Seedling  pricing. In the initial years, the Social Forestry Wing was reluctant to
sell seedlings lest it might adversely affect implementation of the farm forestry component.
Further, during the same period, seedlings were also being distributed free of cost under other
ongoing schemes in the state. Moreover, the arrangement to distribute part of the seedlings free of
charge and sell the rest not only imposed a cumbersome record keeping but resulted in 'binami'
transactions by beneficiaries to evade paying for priced seedlings. At the recommendation of the
Mid-Term Review (MTR), cashew and grevillia seedlings distributed under the project were priced
in 1988-89 at Rs.0. 10 for basketed plant. This price was subsequently eliminated later due to
resistance from growers. A second attempt was made in the following year to price the seedlings
at Rs.0.65 for ailanthus, Rs.1.25 for silver oak, and Rs.0.25 for teak stumps. For other species
which were distributed in excess of the free distribution limit of 10 naked-root and 3-basketed
seedlings, prices were fixed at Rs.0.02 per naked-root and Rs.0.10 for containerized seedlings,
respectively.
5.22       Tribal plantations were originally included to benefit the socially backward and
poor tribal population living in and around the forest areas. Following the Mid-Term Review,
these plantation targets were reduced from 4,200 to 2,100 ha which, in turn, reduced the
involvement of tribals and hence their employment opportunities in the project plantations. The
area under tribal medicinal plants was also small and of an experimental nature, incorporating
numerous species, many of which have no market. There appears to be no indication either that
the tribals would be continuing with the schemes introduced under the project or deriving any
major benefits therefrom.
5.23       Monitoring and evaluation (M  & E). As planned at appraisal, an M & E office
was established in 1986. It implemented a monitoring system in accordance with the "Operational
Guidelines to the Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Forestry in India" formulated by GOI and
WB. The office also monitored the physical and financial progress of the project, and conducted
farrn forestry surveys for 1985-86. For other years (1987-1988), these were undertaken by the
Economics and Statistics Department of the State Government. Other investigations initiated by the
M & E unit include evaluation of plantations by KFRI (1985-1990), study on wastage of seedlings
(1987), and an impact study by consultants. Computers provided under the project proved useful



8
in upgrading the monitoring process. Two posts of M & E supervisors and three posts of
instructors, however, provided under the project were not filled. As a result, data processing and
analysis work was adversely affected. Overall, the establishment of the M & E unit improved
information collection and its documentation. However, the linkages between this unit and the
planning and field divisions were limited, so that there is little evidence that implementation
decisions were affected by the outcome of its studies.
5.24       Project cost. At the time of appraisal, the project was estimated to cost Rs.599.2
million (US$54.5 million) or Rs.7,025/ha over a planting area of 85,300 ha. The actual cost of
implemen,ting the project over 112,373 ha of planted area was Rs.896.8 million (US$52.1) or
Rs.7,980/ha, representing a cost overrun of about 50 percent in rupee terms or nearly 14 percent in
per ha/rupee terms. The depreciation of the rupee against the US dollar has, however, led to an
under-run of 5 percent in costs expressed in dollars. As expected, about 60 percent of the costs
(compared to 58 percent at appraisal) were incurred directly on plantation activities. Total project
costs at appraisal and completion of the project are given in Part III/SA. As shown in Table 2, the
cost increase of 50 percent in rupee terms was caused by escalating prices and wages, which
accounted for 44 percent of the additional costs; and quantities higher than the appraisal estimates
which accounted for 6 percent of the additional costs. The breakdown of cost overruns is
presented in Table 2.
5.25       Cost control. The project design has sought to reduce the cost of plantation
models by allocating the largest share to the least cost plantation system (i.e. farm forestry). The
design however acknowledged the additional benefits (production of poles and fuelwood on
otherwise unproductive land, generation of considerable employment and conservation of land)
obtainable from block plantations on government wasteland, which were sufficient to justify its
high cost. It was considered appropriate to limit the extent of generally high cost strip plantations.
Appraisal expectations have, by and large, been met as total cost per ha at project completion is
estimated at Rs.5,320 (farm forestry), Rs.15,886 (large block plantation), Rs.8,713 (small block
plantation) and Rs.10,750 (strip plantation). The overall project cost increase of 50 percent is
partly explained by a reduction in the share of low cost farm forestry plantations, i.e. 71 percent of
the total planted area compared to 81 percent foreseen at appraisal.
6. Project Results
6. 1       The project was successful in achieving its main objectives: it has improved farmers'
income earning opportunities, increased production (though less than expected) of fuelwood, poles
and timber, helped check water and wind erosion, and strengthened the institutional capability of
the Social Forestry Wing of the Forest Department and related institutions. It did not, however,
benefit the tribal population significantly, limiting their involvement to very small-scale plantation
schemes. The project has directly generated 2.30 million person-days of employment from
plantations, about 30 percent higher than targeted at appraisal. Despite its overall achievements,
the project suffered from some serious shortcomings. These related to distribution of seedlings
without ascertaining farmers' preferences, high seedling wastage, lack of attention to moisture
stress and drought which adversely affected plant mortality, and lack of satisfactory arrangements
for protection of public plantations.
6.2        Production. Current estimates place the eventual size and distribution of
production at 5.2 million m3 of fuelwood, 9.9 million m3 of timber, and 1.2 million m3 of poles,
giving a total production of 16.3 million m3 over a 32-year production cycle, which equals only
about 33 percent of the appraisal estimate. This large shortfall in project production is due to: (a)
lower effective plant densities in farm forestry, i.e. 1,000 plants/ ha compared to the SAR estimate
of up to 3,000/ha; (b) reduced effective densities in public plantations - one-half to one-fourth of



9
SAR projections because of a combination of low initial planting densities and mortality; and (c)
Mean Annual Increments (MAIs) ranging from 8m3 to 12m3 per ha, compared to the SAR estimate
of 10 to 15m3/ha for different species.
6.3        At appraisal, 72 percent of total production was expected in fuelwood and poles, and
28% in timber and peelers. However, as a consequence of change in the species mix and effective
densities in response to farmer demand, the product mix would be 39 percent and 61 percent in
fuelwood/pole and timber respectively. In spite of the reduced volumetric production, in farm
forestry, the expected returns from plantation investments are far higher than anticipated, mainly
due to production of high value teak and ailanthus.
6.4        Financial analysis. Financial rates of return, not estimated at appraisal, have been
calculated based on PCR estimates of biomass yields and prices, detailed in Annex 1. The cash
flows for the main plantation models (taken over a 32-year period), have been estimated using
average level of costs updated to 1992/93. Costs are calculated per hectare and 1992/93 constant
prices are used for both costs and returns. Farmers' labour inputs and products accruing to rural
households have been valued at imputed prices equal to market wage rate (Rs.40/person-day) and
prices ranging from Rs.20/pole to Rs.1,200/m3 for timber (see Section 6D of Part III). The
opportunity cost of land is valued at Rs.1,000/ha/yr for only block planting by farmers which is
assumed around 5 percent of the area planted to farm forestry, and Rs.100/ha/yr for grazing areas
in public land. The results of the analysis show favourable rates of return ranging from 33 percent
to 57 percent depending on the type of planting.
6.5        Economic re-evaluation. An economic re-evaluation has been undertaken for the
project as a whole and for three of the five sub-projects. In line with the methodology of the SAR,
no benefits have been included for the pilot tribal programme for the cultivation of medicinal plants
which only account for 0.1 percent of total planted area. Similarly, production from tribal
fuelwood plantations has been excluded due to inadequate and incomplete monitoring data. This
accounts for less than 2 percent of total planted area. The analysis has been carried out in 1992/93
prices with past expenditures restated in 1992/93 price terms using the wholesale price index.
Phased investment costs in financial terms, as well as in economic terms for the purposes of the
analysis are shown in Table 1. The details regarding planted area and expected yields, as
compared with the assumptions at appraisal, are in Annex 1. The following conversion factors
have been used in converting the financial prices to economic values:
Unskilled labour including farm labour        0.70
Standard conversion factor (SCF)              0.80
Output prices, in financial and economic terms at stump, are summarized in Part III/6D. A 32-year
period of analysis has been used for the purposes of estimating ERRs.
6.6        Based on the above assumptions, species mix and yields, the current estimate of
ERRs for the project as a whole and for the two sub-projects (farm forestry and departmental
plantations) are 33 percent, 45 percent, and 29 percent as compared with the appraisal estimate of
26 percent, 33 percent, and 15-26 percent respectively. A combined analysis was undertaken for
the departmental plantations (large block, small block and strip plantations) in the absence of
adequate segregation of investment costs. The improved output prices (especially for timber) and
shift of species mix to high value items have more than offset the reduced survival rate (40 percent
in contrast to the appraisal estimate of 60 percent).
6.7        The sensitivity analysis indicates that a reduction in benefits by 20 percent would
lower the ERR for the project as a whole to 29 percent; a reduction by 50 percent would lower the



10
ERR to 22 percent; while an increase in cost by 20 percent and by 50 percent would reduce ERRs
to 30 percent and 27 percent respectively. A combined reduction in benefits and increase in costs
by 50 percent will lower the ERR to only 16 percent. The project is therefore not sensitive to
variations in either costs or benefits.
7. Project Sustainability
7.1        A key accomplishment of the project has been the strengthening of the Forest
Department, and related institutions, to provide support for implementing a large-scale tree planting
programme outside the traditional forest lands over the long term. However, sustainability of the
programme is in doubt because of the non-availability of budgeted funds, particularly for plantation
development in public lands with the result that the strengthened institutions cannot be effectively
utilized. At present, the services of almost all the staff (about 300) belonging to the SFW, are not
utilized for want of a budgeted programme for forestry operations. Similarly, the physical facilities
established through the project are likely to remain under-utilized in the absence of such support.
Sharp declines in the scale of post-project plantation programmes and in the training activities at
Arippa centre are indicative of this problem. Project plantations generate adequate resources
generally providing surplus revenue to meet continuing development needs. A revolving fund
mechanism, as recommended by the Bank missions, appears to be an ideal option to keep aside
funds for sustaining project forestry operations.
8. Bank Performance
8.1        The Bank support to the project until its completion was satisfactory. The
supervision missions included competent foresters familiar with the local situation, as well as with
operational aspects of social forestry projects in other parts of the country. Besides providing
continuity in their staffing, the Bank supervision missions made useful contributions towards
adoption of bio-engineering soil and moisture conservation techniques. The Bank responded
flexibly in dealing with problems of financial management. The decision to increase disbursement
percentages helped to relieve local funding shortages and attain higher targets but in so doing could
have reduced the pressure on the state government to allocate the funds required to sustain the
institutions. Timely extension of the project closing date enabled the government to utilize the
Credit savings for expanded operations.
9. Borrower Performance
9.1        The project was the first major effort in the forestry sector ever undertaken by the
state government. Inspite of this , the FD adapted itself well to the project implementation needs.
The Social Forestry Wing responded positively to several of the recommendations of the
supervision missions. A noticeable shortcoming was lack of progress in the establishment of the
"Revolving Fund" to utilize the returns from project investments. The effectiveness of some of the
project operations was hampered by a number of factors, including delays in the release of local
funds, limited deployment of project staff for supervising private nurseries and monitoring and
evaluation of project activities.
10. Project Documentation and Data
10.1       The SAR provided a general framework for project operations. In retrospect, it
would appear that it should have been supplemented by an implementation manual specifying
technical and management aspects of plantation development (i.e. nursery layout, application of



I1
seedling grading standards, stand establishment procedures including pre-plantation surveys,
silvicultural practices, and harvesting regime) for enhanced project performance.
11. Lessons Learned
11.1       A blanket approach to farm forestry, similar to that adopted for other social forestry
projects in the country, was followed, irrespective of prevailing farming systems characterized by
tree and annual crops in Kerala. Tree species provided under this approach (mainly for fuelwood
and fodder) were at variance with farmers' preference for commercial species. In the design and
formulatiop of the projects, macro-level data should be reconciled with locality-specific
data/information in order to ascertain the perception and priorities of different stakeholders. For
example, surveys to determine species preferences of farmers, market prospects, and site
compatibility should have preceded the design of the project and would have led to more accurate
predictions of planting material requirements.
11.2       Contrary to expectations at appraisal, farmers plant trees on their own land primarily
to obtain cash incomes, rather than to meet their domestic fuelwood needs. The project's fuelwood
production goals, therefore, could have best been achieved by plantations on public land.
11.3       It would have been advantageous to broaden the definition of farm forestry targets by
including both the area planted as well as the number of households benefited.
11.4       While free or subsidized seedling distribution contributed positively to the
achievement of the project's planting targets, in the short term, it tended to undermine the fiscal
sustainability of the project after the completion of the disbursement period.
11.5       While designing project implementation units (e.g. Social Forestry Wing) for
execution of defined project activities, consideration should be given to the eventual integration of
the unit with other wings of the FD structure, thereby meeting sectoral requirements for human
resources. This has the advantage of promoting staff morale and ensuring the long-term stability
of the organization.
11.6.      When a component (such as the medicinal plants pilot scheme under this project)
forms an insignificant proportion of the total project investment and is outside the direct purview of
the implementing agency (FD), it receives only slight management attention and seldom attains its
goals.



12
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE



13
KERALA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT 1514-IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - PART II
SOCIAL FORESTRY WING, KERALA FOREST DEPARTMENT
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.
JULY 1993



14
Kerala Social Forestry Project (CREDIT 1514-Iro
Part II PCR
Introduction:
The Social Forestry Progranme in Kerala with
the assistance of the World Bank started in the year
1984. The agreement was executed on 12..12..1984+. As
per the project doct"ment the period of the project was
fixed as six years 1984 to 1990. The original cost of
the uroiect in terms of SDR was fixed as 30.6 million
and US ` 31.8 million in rupee terms Rs.599.1 million.
The important objectives of the project and the compo-
nents are narrated below:-
- to increase the farmer's incomes and self
sufficiency in wood products through their
planration of trees;
to increase production of fuelwood, small
timber and poles by establishing plantations
on available Governzment lands, along the sides
of railway lines, on canal banks, roadsides
and coastal belts and on the gro;nds of edu-
cational and other institutions;
- to reduce the effects of water, aztd wind erosion
and lessen pressure cn existing forests;



15
- to strengthen the eixsting Social Forestry
Wing of the Forest Department and related
institutions and their capability to conduct
a State wide Social Forestry Prograrze which
would yield benefits in the long term.
The project consists of the following camponents:
1.  Distributicn of 340 million seedlings under farm
forestry to raise plantations of about 69,000 ha.;
2.  Large and small block plantations in Government
land totalling 12,000ha.;
3. Strip plantation of 2,000 ha. along canal banks,
road sides, railway sides and coastal belts;
!-.  Special plantation schemes for tribal peoole to th-
extent of 2,100 ha.;
5.  Establishment/ir-prov,r-nt of small family co3rated
nurseries and large nurseries serring departmental
plantations;
6.  An intensive progra=ze of extension and publicity,
strengthening the linkage between Sccial o.-restry
and Agricultural Extension;
7.  Training for Social Forestry staff, Volantary and
other interested organisations and farers, and
strengthenirg of selected institutions for Social
Forestry Training;
8.  Research activities including development of reco-men-
dations to be transmitted to the farmers by exten--_on
and evaluation of planting prcgramares, carrying cu:
of forestr; related research and studies and a wocd
supply and demand study;



16
9.  Improving the capability of  mall farmers and
schools to handle nursery work and increasing
the role of voluntary organisations, and rural
communities   in Social Forestry; and
10. Monitoring and evaluation of the project in
accordance with the guidelines for 1 onitoring
and 3valuation develooed by Government of India
and IDA.
By the year 1990 the Social Forestry Project
achieved the complete       physical targets laid down
in the original project for farm forestry and bLock
plantation. Civil works were also progressing and
other activities like extension training, research
and studies, monitoring and evaluiation were all pro-
grassing.  The rate of exchanga of rupee is Dollar and
rupee Vs SDR depreciated considerably and as a result
of which the physical targets were revised. There was
about Ps.4-00 million available in the project account.
This necessitated for the extension of the project frcm
1990 for  two  more years uzto 1993.  In the extension
proposals submitted in 90 it was proposed to undartake
additional planting activities to the extent of 16,1+10
ha. in the degraded forests and civil works 1+10 additional
buildings and purchase of few vehicles and equiDments
etc.  In farm forestry 4.5 crores seedlings were targett,.d
for distribution.



17
The combined achievement are furnished below:
Achievement s:
Large Block Plantations         -    27027.01
Small Bkock Plantations         -     2696.149
Strip Plantations               -      813.74Y  + 200.93 Km.
Tribal Fuelwood Plan            -     1665.10
Tribal Medicinal Garden         -      112.60
Civil Works                     -      507. No.
Farm Forestry                   -    Distributed 38.49 crores
seedlings equivalent to
79969.50 ha.
Research & Studies:
The Kerala Social Forestry Project has a Component
Research and Studies. We had entrusted thrae Research In-
stitutions viz. Kerala Forest Research Institute, Kerala
Agricultural University, Central Plantation CroDs Researc:n
Institute - a   wes research projects and The follc-ing stu-
dies have been cc=oleted and fin2l reports received.
:Iame of Eesearch Project            AgencyJ
1 . Ccccnut based Agro-forestr-y
Systems.                       -  C.P.C.R.I.,
Kasargcde.
2.  Oil Palm Based Agro-
forestry.                      -  C.P.C.R.I.,
Kasaragode.
3. Demand and Supply` o" Wood
and theirFuture Trends.        - K.F.E.I.,
Peechi.



18
4.~ Litter Dynaflics root nodulation   K. .R.I.
and microrizhial association    Peechi.
in Accacia AuricIfiiQf:o)iF 
~'.Water use 01 se ecctea
indigenous and exctic trees.  -  K.F.R.I.,
Peechi.
6.  Propagaticri of Xedic-nal
Plants Bamboo and Rattan by       -P*ehi-
tissue culture met!.cds.       Peechi.
7.  Studies on yield fr  ALcacic. -  K.F.FR.I.,
Plantations in Kerala.              Peechi.
8.  Exploitation of indigenous    -K.k.U
multi-purpose tree species          Vellayani
in Agro - Scc-' Forestry
Syster's.
9.  Seed viability and e.ina-   -           
tion studies in selected           Vellayani.
forest tree species.
The project hiad spent approximately ziz.87 crores
till 31.3.1993 sinee it: inception.



19
PART -II
(a). Adequacy and accuracy of factual information in
Part-III of the P.C.R.
WJe have not received the Part-III of the P.C.R.
from the Bank.  Hence unable to comrent at this stage.
(b).  Comments on analysis of Part-I of the P.C.R.
As the Part-I of the P.C.R. has not been received
from the Bank till  now, we are unable to offer our
Comments.
(c). Bank's Derformance during the evolution and imole-
mentation of the Droject.
The success of the Kerala Social Forestry Project
is mainly attributable to the co-ordination and Co-operation
extended by the Bank and its staff during the implementatior
of the project. The Bank's personnel consisted of
professionals in all relevant disciplines.  The mission
members were experienced in their resoective fields.  The
over all performance of the Bank during the implementation
was extremely good.
Lessons learned.
1.  The Social Forestry Project of Kerala learned certain
lessons which are slurrarised below while implementing
tne programme.



20
2.   Onc2 the Bank sanctions the loan a 'Pass Boo'k
System' should be introduced.  The pass book will contain
the details of the loan amount and the subsecuent with-
drawals o-f the crediz by way of 'reimbursement claims'
and the balance at credit in the borrowers' account.
In the case of Kerala Social Forestry Project a monthly
disbursement summary was received intermittantly thrDugh
the Government of India.  The monthly disbursement summary
did not contain the current exclhange rate at which tLhe
loan amount has been debited.  As a result Df which the
borrov;er could not calculate the amount available in his
credit at a particular point of time without consulting
Government of India.  This information will enab:le the
pr3ject authorities to formulate their plans and ta'-e
aonrooriate steos for speedy implementation of the -rDject.
3* Flexibility rpeuired:
The prinject document contains the sanctirned
amount for different cormonents of the project.  Hoxever,
when the actual imolementation takes place there mar' be
a few interlinked activities to be carried out whic` inay
not find a place in the approved project document.  Such
interlinked activities would supnlement and act as
complement to the whole activities which have been
undertaken.  In such cases the project authorities a7e
not given the liberty to allocate fund1s for the inter-
linked      activities.  Therefore, a flexible aporoach



21
is required in respect of allocating money to the project
components and some flexibility to be made available to
the Project Manager.  Thlis flexibility may be fixed in
terms of the perzentage of financial target of each
component.
4. Timely release of funds:
As per the usual pattern of funding the State
Government have to snend the amount first, and claim
reimbursement afterwards.  It has been our experience
and as per the available recoris in our office,the
reimbursement claims 'were combined two or three together
and the amounts released.  Though during 1992 advance
payment of the financial assistance was sanctioned on
some occasions; it was not done regularly. There-fore
there should ye periodic release of amounts in advance
to the State Government within definite intervals. This
will enable smooth and timely inplementation of the
programmes. The assistance received may have to be
utilised by operating a separate treasury account free
from any treasury ban.
5.. Monitorinc:
Monitoring o- the project by the Bank should xegin
with the commencement of the project work, as
against its commencement from mid-term appraisal. This
would enable to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation
activities and take anpropriate decision in time.



22
6 )  2O.n)obi;ion  Iof  ta  zuperv iion 22j_ion!
The sazervisory  mission should consist of
not only ciualified oersonnels -'iO orofes_ionals
from the Xan:c but also  bome local -ne7iers from
1ifferent  .iweciolines so that the as_es -ient of
tho  -rojec-. ao well as a->.res_ing the oroobens
at the tioe of irole-ient-tion  coui  be mnde nore
effective.
7 )   T.he n_-.l LDr i a in2- re resentative   In tle station
7     T-ti( ett1 nc-zr or   reo r)r . entative_  J.0n5
. tJl t'o1  9: jj:ct                    uut.a.-1nt Lin aatoo:rlty  _-O   to
h)   3orrDr  o vn oerforiawce  oux jLv n              jo .u--jau  on
OLt-z                      if th        o1 .1Dj-c-,tth t-O C- u.-L
enonm~izi on le3ons leLarned  tLat  oa{ be relevant
for^ tne  fture.
-he  oci- 1oDreztr,  iin  1 il not h Z-
any  ia-or nroDLe s .I^i_  inolt-mentatinr- i-ci L
?ore .try   rr   -ea in   er2 a.  The tar et_ li
'own in t.-e a 9 rAvJtl Oroject 1ocu.ient %4erc _c ;e-e
weli . itnin the tine.



23
The Bank'r  .u?ervi-ory mi.jion
taave oeen  n- j review rcDrt6.  The   -tnn
and recoa 7nlltLonu conc-lnto  in tne report were
also conniied  witn to toLe extunt Donie.  The
covenents of t02 project oi2ve been compiied witn
in tine.  The project ri&,6 created better  ozoitive
ij2jact aiasn  tne PCeoJe oi Kterula.  nLle oLiowin&
are t,ie Xunnacy of tnO  ?oOWtive indicatorf
1.    The ecope of a-ro-fOreetry  in Keraa
have increasel with the adv,nt of the Social Forestry
ProL-ramme.  The tree growing habits of the peoole
have chan.,el an- stren;gthenel further the gh  of
a-ro--fore.try ound  aultiole tree cronDins  oattern.
One of the brilliant feature, which can he f'ounl
in KeraLa is that every r-o3uehDiA  how,ever snail,
g-rows both aLricultaral an! fore:tryr >secies.
ToiA  ha. been reflected in the fLro fore_try urveyj
conlucted by tne  te rt nrnt.  It exoiibitd tdoat
7>,) Of tce  op?uLltl on on an "verage/ reoi.Ured
seedLin6s for growin- in i'utare.   2h'lo bnowo tOe
institutiona-iiation of toe O3ciai. z loreLtry 2robraooe
in tne .tate aL a wnoie.



24
2.      in tnt sbucceedinb years it ha  been
foLund oat tent tLoe d.Liaand ifor tiobzr o2ecieb
e s>eciaiiy teezj, has been very high.   The fruit
bearing trees were also in great de nanl.  Si nilarly
'Ailanthus is anot'er soecies  4 which is in great
de-nanl.  This wiil show the comnosition of the
agro-forestry sy tei prevailinc- in Veraia,  Trnich
has been ezt-.'lihed hy tlhe Socil1 Forestry Frograme.
15.     M-any intitattion- who ha1  a-3telands osoered
and co-ooer--te! 'itn the S'oc i..l 'rore-try  iing in
afforet.in- the entire ar2- t wL)iCn ia g breat
ac h ie vG xe zent.  Lxt Cnsive wa.-teiandz avaZilitbie witn
Univer,itie--, 'i-..D.C  n:D,ovrl.   fic ,
KA.C.T CYCHMI- etc. n-ve been Lffore zd ;uct_2-f Ljy.
It       a fac-Ct tLiat botLi Lideb of tnt: .ation2.'
HircIdy.  3ver i3n, diDtaLcu- have bten covered by
Xtrio piantstionz by ti:-  cOciai Foret:y  i.nl  -.&i
wnicn ev_n no. btan1 ad ta te ztiiony to the baucce-.,  of
the Dro-ramne.
5.      As a re&aut of the advent of the Social Forestry
Progra-nqe,a joint awarenes3 in greening has oicked uo
among the oeoole.  The oeoole are aware abhct the
environnent an" it_ necessity for ore servatiDn anl the
need for creating environmental conservation plans
and the ill effects of defore-ttation.  Soil Conser-
Vi                        vation methods were adooted.   Propa6ation about the



25
Social Forestry activities were carried out through various
audio-visual mediums to the people and they are now aware
of the programme.  The "unanimous  will -of the people is
to grow more trees.
6. Enhancement of area under the forests:-
There has been an increase in the area covered
under planting which has         added upto the total area
of forests of Kerala. More than ten thousand hectares of
fallow land comprising those along railway lines, road
sides, institutional compounds and other Revenue lands
have been afforested with good stocking. They are all
outside the reserved forest.
7.    As a result of undertaking the Social Forestry
Programme the infrastructure for the forest department
has considerably -creiated and many assets have been
created and which would not have been possible had not
the Bank provided the finance. Some of the major
buildings -are:
i.  The Social Forestry Headquarters at
Thiruvananthapuram.
ii.  The Arippa Training Centre
iii.  Regional Offices at Kollam, Kottayan and
Kozhikode.
Besides,-.  District Level Offices, Quarters, dormitories
etc. have been constructed. Thus the total assets in
terms of buildings doubled during the 8 year period of
the project.
8.    Augmentation of many failed plantations and degraded
forests within the reserve forests increased the biomass
to a considerable extent.
';



26
Experi nces
The project document laid-down farm forestry, block
plantations, extension and training and Civil works as
the major components of the project.  The main t:hrust
the project document Was given to the farm forestry
programme in which seedlings were distributed to the public
for planting in their homesteads. In the initial stages
seedlings were distributed free of cost but later on
pricing of seedlings was introduced gradually.
(i). Farm Forestry Programme.
As already stated this component constituted about
81% of the total planting programme. The farmers in most
parts of Kerala are sophisticated tree growers and they have
wide range of horticultural tree species such as account,
cashew nut, arcanut etc. The objective as envisaged in
the project was to increase the income and self sufficiency
of the small farmers by adopting the Social Forestry
programme as they will grow small timber, poles and fuelwooc
and fodder species. The unique feature of the farming
community is that majority of the land holdin,gs are small
ie. less than 2 hectares. But at the same time the farmers
grow multiple tree species in the available lands, which
formed -a unicue land use patterm-
During the Mld%-tm appraisal of the project it was
suggested that there has been a large demand for seedlings
but the supply has to be channelised in. a careful manner
so as to avoid wastage of seedlings. A distribution register



27
was maintained from each distribution centre which contains
the relevant details about the seedling distribution
programme.. The NGOs were involved in the distribution of
seedlings. Further, the mission appraisal; suggested
that regular inspections should be carried out to avoid
wastage and the Forest Department should provide better
training to the farmers as well as NGOs. It was also
further pointed out that the farmers should be given the
freedom to select the species. While pointing out the need
for better extension activities, it was brought to the
notice that in many cases the extension snould focus on
the following:
(a). Right spacing.
(b).    appropriate species.
(c). Planting of seedlings in a shady area.
(d).  Tackling weed menace              -l       -    ^
(e). tight Pit sizes.
(f).         Application of I44Ptes  and fertilizers
and insecticiLdes.
In the subsequent years the above points were
considered in great detail. Consequently to avoid wastage,
pricing of seedlings was introduced initially in four
districts in 1988-'89. There was desistance from the
farmers and the off-take of seedlings was considerably low.
After the bitter experience in the district of Kollam,
were
cashew seedlings/distributed f;ee of cost  as demanded  -
by the local people.
,,



28
Afterwards the department started limiting the supply
of free seedlings to a particular no. and thereafter
charging a nominal price. After great resistance this
was accepted by the people. The department resorted to
charging of production cost and the current practice of
charging the production cost is being continued. The
Govern=ent also co-operated with the department in issuing
the order in accordance with the species.
IMPROV.LD Z=:-,SION AND TRAINING FACILITMS.
Originally jit was conceived that extension should be
carried out through the Agricultural 3xtension T&V system
prevalent in Kerala.  But as the system did not work well
we had to resort-to our own way of imparting training and
extension work. The Kerala Agricultural University was
involved in giving training, to the people. Similarly in
the latter years the "Krishi Bhavans" of the Agricultural
Department were also involved in imparting information on
Farm Forestry to farmer groups.
As per the monitoring and evaluation survey report
on farm forestry it was recommended triat the extension
support should be strengthened further in the farm forestry
sector for better results. The wing yielding to this
recommendation charted out training prograxmes for farmers,
voluntary organisations, iNGOs. These training programmes
are conducted from the institute at Arippa and also from



29
the Regional Eitension Centres established for the purpose.
Apart from this training, monthly work shops, seminars ,
exhibitions and audio-visuals programmes,group discussions
are arranged and large numbers of farmers participate
in the programme.
Role of Voluntary Crganisations:-
The Social Forestry Wing in the initial stages
entrusted the work of distribution of seedlings to the
NGOs/Voluntary Organisations. The Voluntary Organisation
arranged distribution centres, at the time of seedling
distribution and maintained the distribution registers.
It was experienced at that time many  of the NGOs were
not doing their work properly and there were wastage of
seedlings.  This has been pointed out in the farm forestry
survey report as well as in the evaluation report.  To
avoid this the wing resorted to giving some incentives
to the voluntary organisations for the good work done by
them. For eg., a small unit of the NGO like Sports &
arts club will be given a sports kit as incentive. This
enabled better distribution of seedlings avcided wastages
of 5eedlings considerably.



30
During last year we have established th- Panchayat
Comm.ittees for the distribution of the seedlings, The
committees were formed with the officials and representa-
tives from the Department, Panchayats, Voluntary Organi-
sations and local Villagers.  They were given the choice
to select the type of species to be distributed and they
were given money fcr taking up the nmrseries in accordance
with the demand for local spocies.           it functioned
extremely well and ncw the committees are continued.
With the involvement of the Panchayats the decentralised
Micro-Plannin4 system was introdiced in the Kerala Social
Forestry activities. The committees will also make an
assessment of the available resources in the village and
tailor the Social Forestry Programme accordingly. This
was i.a contrast to the earlier centralised system of
decisicn making by the Forest Department.
Nurseries:
in the initial stages of the project, nuirseries were
established by the Forest Department itself to produce
the required-seedlings. Usually, the nulrseries are
established very near to a water scurce. Subsequently
it was found tnat training in nursery management are
required and this was also imparted frcm the Training
Institute at Arippa.
Grading of seedlings:
The  quality of the seedlings prodaced from the
nuirseries were checked regularly and it was found that
the quality required to the improved. Therefore,
"grading of seedlings" were introduced and the grades
were presc-ribed and seedlings produced for distributicn.



31
juidelines were issued with regard to the 'package of
practices' to be adooted for better niarsery management.
This is being continued.
Decentralised nuirseries and Private nurseries
To encourage the local people to take up nurseries
to                      to
a decentralised nursery sche,me was adopted.  Under the scheme
public were given a sapling and the poly bag, and they have
to fill the bag with soil and grow the seedlings. After
tne seedlings reach a particular height they are free to
sell these seedlings in the open market and if they are
unable to sell the department will come to rescue by
offering a 'buy back' price 4 30 paise per seecilings which
has been subsequently enhanced to 45 paise per seedlings.
Many missi_ns visited and after tneir recommendations it
was decided that the ccmpositicn o.f private nurseries in
the total nurseries will have to be enhanced to that of
661; and the remaining 33% will have to be establishea by
the department. The directions issued by the aorld Bank
that for departmental Dlantations seedlings will have to
be purchased from the private nurseries was also adhered to
the extent possible.  But this was not possible in all cas-s
since some of the platations were far, in the interior wn-re
decentralised nuirseries did not exist.
Regular Assessment:-
The Farm Forestry survey has been regularly conducted
tc assess the survival percentage of the seedling distribilted
under the programme.  s per the survey the survival
percentage hovers round 40%,interalia, the survey also
made an indepth ,ontne reason for mortalitv of the seedling
d.stributed anc the future trends and extension activittes



32
etc. The recommendations of the survey were timely acted
upon in the subsequent years.
Plantations:
Block plantaticns represents the second largest component
of the Social Forestry Programmes. Different categories of
block plantations were envisaged in the project report.
As per the project report the different categories and
large block, small block, strip, tribal fuelwood and tribal
medicinal gardens. Block plantations, barring a few,
maintain good standard. Tribal fuel wood plantations are
the same as other fuel w_od plantaticns except in-their
locaticn.  Medicinal gardens .:ave not succeeded in most of
the cases as they are qiai   new and mare,etting has not been
properly estanlished.
Supervisory aissions visited and reccmmended that
the strip plantations should be raised in two or three rows
and in the first rcw flowering plants should be planted.
The fuelw:-od and small timber plants should be planted in
the second and third row. Fencing shoulld be of live
fence (Glyricidia, Jedropha) accordingly we have establi-
shed the strip plantations throughout the State.
HarvestinQ nlan - Manacement of Dlantations:-
As per the direc-ions of the World Bank we have
prepared a harvesting plan I A Management Plan fixing t-e
rotaticns' ana       submitted to the Wcrld Bank also.
The detailed harvestirg plan contains tne district-wise
plantations and area in hectares ready for harvesting
in future.
Benefit sharing:-
The Steering Ccmmittee of the Government of Kerala



33
which monitors the project activities decided that the
beneFit sharinc with the people should be in the following
manner.  In accord,ance with this decisions the Government
of Kerala also issued a 0.O. on benefit sharing.
1. The poles will be disoosed of in open auction.
2. 75,' of the prcduce will be d4isnos-e  of in onen
auctiornter auction rates.
3. 25%0 of the quantity of the fuelwood, will oe sol1
at 75' of the Drice fetched from the auction.
The order was not a workable proposition and
therefore we submitted a croposal to liberalise the
order an-d give more benefits to the reonle.  As cer the
proposal submit-ed to the Sovernment, 50O, of- The producz
will be sold! at a concessional rate to be ceomle residing
nearbv the olanoa-ions.
Apart from the a'bJove twigs, branches, lops and
tops dried materials etc. are supplied to the local
people free o, cos7 staying nearby the plantations.
In 1988 in the district of Palakka2 we have distributad
the above thin-ed' materials to b_e local ze:ole throucn
committees.  The criteria for selectior. o- -'re beneficiarleo
is that the income as suggested in the ration card
reckoned as rs.500/- per montn.  This 1has been successfully
done.
Technoloav Manuel:
A techlno' oc  manual for the plantatinrs translazed
into the local language was prepared. The technology



34
manual covers various models of plantations, treatments,
package of practice, micro-planning etc.
The multi-tier 'VI ditch olantina:
The World Bank Mission recor-iended to adopt a
vegetative, conservative multi-tier technology,
intergra ting planting _nd soil conservation works.
As per the directions 30'0 of the tDtal area under
olanting in an year should be brought under this scheme.
in
W,-e have attemoted on this and .almost  every district
'demonstration olots' have been established to show
to the public to adopt this tech-nology.
zvaluation. of olant ations:
Evaluation of th-2 plantations was conluci:ed bv
t.e  r-'   For-st Research Insti;t:,e assessing the
surviv-31 nercentaoe in o:1e 7larnta-`ons.  Accorlio to
their re-ort 65,'t to 80;' is the survival in these
polantations.
Tribal Schemes:
As a part of the Soc-l  'or-st.   roornres tr:_al
fuelwood olantaticns were established ir. almost all the
districts o  .Kerala.  In these plantations tribal -ere
engaged by the Department giving ermloyment to them and
the berefits ,,e-e shared *,;ith them.  The activities ,ere
planting Pepper, Rubcer an. OoGonut.  Further maintenance
have also been done by decartment in cert_in ar2as



35
where the tribals are not conversant with that.  Digging
wells, constructing approach roads, constructing tribal
houses and farm a7znroach roads also 1have been done in
some cases as -=,roved by the District Level Committee.
A tribal medicinal garden was also establisshed. The
produce from these plantations are shared as per a G.C.
which stioulate for 75' of tle sale -Droduce w.ill be
distributed in cash  among the tribal families and 25'
of the amount will be deposited in a fund which .J/il1 be
used for common welfare activities of the tribl to
ensure craduation of tribal families to self sufficiencv.
MCN:7O3R7XG & EVALUA.CTI
Th.e Monitoring & Evaluation is an inbuilt
mechanism in the project to monit:or effectiv,ely the
imDlementation of tle Social Forestrv schemes and4 to
recommrenan  suggestions for im-roved executi-n an-I assess
the nerforman.ce of tie 'croiect.  v:onitoring coil_ds be
done more effeccively iuring the extension oeriod of
the project.  A team of Officers from the hec-Iqiarters
,;ere utilised  -or tTis ou-?oee.   heVvsitz almost all
divisions and send    status reoorts- Based on their
observation in res-ect cf
(i) Formation of nursery
(ii) _uantitv end cuality o- seedlings nrc-.uce..
(i-i) Planting activities.
the defects ,.,,ere rectified.



36
Two stages of evaluatior. were done (1) the Farm Forestry
survey which were conductecd by the Deo,rtent  : conomics
and Statistics and (2) Evaluation of plantations by the
Kerala Forest Research Institute.
Conslant monitcring were done by tle Department and
progress reports anl inspection of nurseries distributions
were done by tlhe Senior Officers of the Department
periodically. TeWhenever aberrations have taken pDace
corrective measures were adooted.
The Farm Forest;r surve,Ys mainly assessed the
survival of th-e seedlings distributed under the farm
forestrv programme.  The methlod used was stratified
systematic random sarrDling teclhnique in sel-ction of
households.  * det-ailed questionnaire was orceared and
got filled up.                      WIhile collecting t;.e
data de'ails .e also collected r_a.arding extensicr.
advice, recarding future needs of the -e,-le wlillincness
to olantmore trees reason for mortality etc.  T-ese
have been tabulated end presented in the reoort.
3ased orn the  indings of the reoor- 7eriodic
changes have _een introduced in the inmlermentation of
the sch-eme.  For instance thle survey report indi-cated
that many peo7le are incliridto take fruit bearing
trees and horticulture species.  In the subsequent
years of seedling distribution, the quantum of f-uit
bearing and horticulture species were increased.



37
Similarly extension activities were 2ccentuated based
on the report.  The number of training procrammes and
the number of workshons the number of meetings, seminars
were considerably enhanced in the subsequent years.
Research
The project Drovided for undertaking a few research
studies to imorove the current oractices and to desicn
the future course of action to be adopted for better
imolementation of the prograsur. The Kerala Agriculture
University, the Central Plantation Crops Research
institute, Kerala Forest Research Institute were engagc1d
in the research studies.  The renorts have been received
and are readily available in the office. Based on these
reports also we have introduced some changes in the
imrolementation o- the rro:gramrme.  For instance the Central
plantation Crops Research Institute reoort found out that
.Ailanthus is the best inter cron to be grown in the midst
of coconuts.  This was introduced in the farm forestry
and there are many honesteadsch-e  Ailanthus and Coconut
are grown together for better results.  Kerala -orest
Research Institute have conducted a few studies on yield
from Acacia plantations which is used for collecting the
total biomass availability.  Similarly the Kerala Forest
Research Institute have conducted a  eiemand supply of wood
studies which is also very useful.



38
(e) The relationship between the Bank in borrower durina
the evolution and imolementation of the oroject.
There was a co-ordial relationshin and the Bar.k
co-operated and supported the Social Forestry Programme
in a very effective way. There has been no difference
of opinion nor any conflict    nor any major problems.
(f) Evolution of the verformance of the co-financiars
and assess their relationshin with the borrower
during the evolution and imnlementation of the
oroject.
There has been no co-financiars and the
Social Forestry Wing had implemented only one project
with the assistance of the World Bank and hence there
are no comments on this point.



39
SummarV
To sum up the World Bank's assistance to the forestry
sector in Kerala has helned to a very great extant in
developing the infrastructure for the department to
institutionalise the social forestry activities in the
long run.
Traditionally, the 'orest Deoartment had to play a
regulatory role in the protection of environment & forests.
People were not involved in the forestry activities. The
social forestry paved a great way in opening uo the forest
to the people.  They were made to realise the need for
protecting their environment and the need for oreserving
the forests, and the way for sustain-d economic develon-
ment.  If one scans through th-e records it would reveal
that forestrv was regarded as a 'revenue earning department'
and little was done towar-]s affor-station programme.
Consequent upon taking social focestry, better management
of forests ushered in. People were also allowed to
partake in the nature buildinc activities.  The contractual
obligation of the  ,eoole to offer services for protecting
the forests and thereby take away their legitimate share
of forest produce streewn the way for better economic
development.  This enabled the forestryz sector to be
managed in a democratic way. The peo?le were also
provided with ample employment generation procramme and
in effect made them more self-r-eliant.
Prl. Chief Conservator of Forests (SF&-V).



40
PART III
1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits
Credit Titk                                            Purposc                          Year of            Status
Approval
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry   To incrcasc the supply of fuelwood in rural areas, to     1978           Completed
Project (Cr.925-IN)              provide poles, bamboo, small timber, foddcr grass and
minor forcstry products and strcngthen the social
forestry organization to carry out project works.
Gujarat Social Forestry Project                       (as above)                          1979           Completed
(Cr.961-IN)
West Bengal Social Forestry                           (as above)                          1982           Completed
Project (Cr.1178-IN)
Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana                         (as above)                          1982           Completed
Social Forestry Project (Cr.1286-
IN)
Karnataka Social Forestry Project To augment fuelwood supplies in priority rural areas    1983           Completed
(Cr.1432-IN)                     and semi-urban areas. and to provide small timber
fodder and other related forest products.
National Social Forestry Project   To assist the States of Gujarat. Uttar Pradesh.        1985           Completed
(Cr.161 1-IN)                    Ihimachal Pradesh, & Rajasthan to expand and improve
their social forestry activities.
Maharashtra Forestry Project    To support restructuring and rationalization of the       1992            Ongoing
(Cr.2328-IN)                     State's Forestry Department and its investment
programmes, and to foster a greater role in forestry
and development for village communities, non-
governnment institutions, cooperatives and the private
sector.
West Bengal Forestry Project     To support Government of West Bengal Forestry            1992            Ongoing
(Cr.2341-IN)                     Department programme through installation of a
sustainable protection system in all regions in the State,
enhancement of rorest productivity and conservation of
biodiversity.
2. Project Timetable
Item                                 Date Planned                  Date Revised                   Date Actual
Prcparation                                                               -                            1983
Appraisal                                                                 -                      Jan/Feb. 1984
Negotiations                                                              -                        June 1984
Board Approval                                                            -                       July 31, 1984
Credit Signature                                                          -                      Dec. 12, 1984
Credit Effectiveness                        -                             -                      March 5, 1985
Closing Date                         Dec. 31, 1990                 Dec. 31, 1991                March 31, 1993



41
3. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(SDR Million)
FY85      FY86      FY87      FY88       FY89       FY90      FY91      FY92       FY93      FY94
Appraisal Estimate        2.50      6.30      11.40     17.00      22.80     28.90      30.6       30.6      30.6      30.6
Actual                    0.3        2.5       6.2        10        12.6      15.4      18.5       22.8      24.7      24.8
Actual as % of Estimate   12%       40%       54%        59%       55%        53%       60%       75%        81%       8190
Comments: SDR4.5 million was cancelled on December 5,1991. Final
disbursement from the Credit was made on August 19, 1993 and the
undisbursed balance of SDRI.3 million was cancelled. The final Credit
amount was SDR24.8 million.
4. Project Implementation
A. Physical Targets and Achievements
Itcm                                      Appraisal Target       Extcnsion Targct /       Actual AchievcmcnL2'
(ha)       (%)         (ha)         (%)          (ha)         (%)
1. Iarm Forestry                         69,200      81.1       87,000        68.5        79,962        71.2
2. I'lantations on GoNcrnnicnt land
- large hlocks                           11,000       12.9       37.000       29.1        26,875        23.9
- small blocks                           1,000        1.2        1,000         0.8        2,711          2.4
- strip plantation                       2.000        2.4          -            -           911          0.8
- tribal fuclwood                        2.000        2.3        2.000         1.5        1,801          1.6
- tribal medicinal                         100        0.1         113          0.1          113          0.1
botal Arca Plantcd                       85,300       100       127,100       100         112,373        100
1/ lhc project was extended by 27 months in December 1990.
2/ Actually achieved as on closing date, i.e. March 31, 1993.



42
B. Staffing, Civil Works and Vehicles
Appraisal             In Position         Actual/Appraised
1. STAFFING                                                             (No.)                   (No.)                  (%)
Prl. Chicf Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry &                      I                       1                     100
Vigilance)
Chief Conscrvator of Forests                                              I                       I                     100
Conservator of Forests                                                    4                       4                     100
Deputy Conservator of Forests                                             17                      3                      18
Assistant Conservator of Forests                                          18                      18                    100
Financial Manager                                                         I                       1                     100
Economist                                                                 I                       I                     100
Statistician                                                              I                       I                     100
Forest Ranger                                                             47                     39                      83
Foresters                                                               230                     189                      82
Forest Guard                                                              34                      4                      12
M & E Supervisor                                                          2                       -                      -
Instructor                                                                3                                              -
Others                                                                    I                       1                     100
Total                                                                360                    263                      73
Appraisal                Actual           Actual/Appraised
2. CIVIL WORKS                                                           (No.)                 (No.)                   (%)
A. Non-Rcsidential
Social Forestry IIQ                                                     I                       1                     100
Circle IIQ (CF)                                                         2                       3                     150
= District 0IQ (DFO)                                                      14                      13                     93
= Range Offices                                                           47                      30                     64
T Training, various types                                                43                       36                     84
- Others (garages, water supply, sheds etc., community                    54                      88                    163
halls under T'SP)
13. Rcsidential
- CCI: Quarters                                                           I                        1                    100
- Cl Quarters)                                                            4                      (6                   ( 26
- DCF Quartcrs)                                                           19                     (
- ACE Quarters                                                            Is                      19                    127
- Range Officers                                                         49                       74                    151
- Forestcrs                                                             238 1/                   292                    123
- lorest (,uards                                                         34                      144                    424
Total                                                               521                      707                    136
Appraisal                Actual           Actual/Appraised
3. VI llHlCJ.S                                                          (No.)                   (No.)                  (%)
Car                                                                       S                       5                     100
NMinibus & Bus                                                            4                       4                     100
Traicrflcrrck ker                                                         36                     12                      33
2-W  Icep                                                                 36                     25                      69
Publicity Vans                                                            3                       2                      67
Motorcycles                                                              93                      87                     94
Mopeds                                                                  182                      92                     51
13Ioats 
Truck                                                                     7                       6                      86
Total                                                               359                      233                     65
Forestcrs' storc-cuni-rcsidcnce.



43
5. Project Cost and Financing
A. Project Cost
(Rs million)
ItLm    I                                      Appraisal1'              Actual 2/          Actual as % of Appraial
A. Organization and Managemcat                     212.9                  337.9                      159
B. Planiation Activitics
- Seedling Production                              213.4                  216.9                      102
- Large Block Plantation                            94.6                  253.2                      268
- Small Block Plantation                             6.8                   36.0                      529
- Strip Plantation                                  125                     8.3                       66
- Tribal Fuelwood Plantation                        12.4                    4.1                       33
- Tribal Medicinal Pilot Scheme                      0.9                    6.2                      689
- Plantation Protection                             5.1                    17.1                      335
Sub-Total Plantation Activitics                    345.7                  541.8                      157
C E-xtcnsion and Publicity                          4.9                     0.7                       14
D. Training                                         33.6                   11.7                       35
EL Rescarch and Studics                             2.1                     4.7                      224
Total Project Cost                                 599.2                  896B                        150
1/ Includes physical and price contingencies.
2/ Actually incurred as at closing date, i.e. March 31, 1993.
B. Project Financing
B1.1
Planned                                  Actual
(SDR  million)          (%)           (SDR million)              (%)
IDA                                   30.6                58                24.8
GOK                                   21.8                42               N.A.
Total                                 52.4               10(
/ Figures not available at the time of PCR preparation.



44
B.
Expcnditure/Catcgorica              Planncd Crdit Agreement       Reviacd Allocation    Final Am nt        Fnl
May 1991    Dec. 1991
)DA Credit                                                   . (in SDR'OOOs) .
Civil works                                   5.190              4,050        3,200         3.363             11
Vehicles, equipment, fumiture  t                870               1,081       1.300           996             3
materials
Plantation activities                         17,670             20,086       17,400        17,1021Y         56
Consultant services and training              1.640              2,383        1,000           489             2
Incremental staff salaries                    3,270              3,000        3,200          2,848            9
Unallocated                                   1,960                -            -             -
Total disbursements                                                -            -           24,798            81
Cancellation                                                       -          4,5Ot/        4-S00X/           15
1.3023/          4
Total                                     30,600              30,600      30,600         30,600          100
1" Includes SDR 64.000 disbursenient out of SpCcial Fund.
21 Cancciled as of December 5. 1991.
/ Still uncommitted as of August 31, 1993, and would be caniccllcd.
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Item                                   Unit              Appraisal listimatc                   PCR Estimatc
I'arm       Public                 Parm       Public
Forcstry     Lands       'I'otal    Porcstry    Lands      TOtaW
Fuclwood                            million m3       7.7          4.2        11.9        2.0        3.2        5.2
Timber and Pcciers                  million m3       13.9          -         13.9        9.9         -          9.9
Poles                               million m3       19.5         4.5        24.0        0.4        0.8        1.2
Total Production                    million m3       41.1         8.7        49.8        12.4       4.0        16.4
No. of Bencficiarics                  million
Employmcni Gencrated
- from plantations                   man-days          1.75 million                             2.30 million
- from Forest Dcpartment               jobs                550                                      263
1/ Excludes production from tribal fuclwood and pilot medicinal components.



45
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal P-stimate          PCR Estimate
Eanomic Ratc of Rcturn (%)
Farm Forestry                                                               33                         45
Departmental Plantations:
- Large Block Plantations                                                    26
- Small Block Plantations                                                    17
- Strip Plantations                                                          15                           29
- Tribal Plantations                                                         25
Total Project                                                                26                         33
Assumptions:
- Project Life (years)                                                       30                        4.0
- Standard Conversion Factor                                                 0.8                       0.8
- Conversion Factor for Unskilled Labour                                     0.6                       0.7
1/ A combined analysis was undertaken in the absence of adequate segregation of investment costs.
C. Financial Impact
Appraisal Estimatc           PCR Estimate
Vinancial Rate of Return (%)                                           Not Estimatcd
Farm Forestry                                                                                          43
Large Block Plantations                                                                                 33
Small Block Plantations                                                                                 57
Strip Plantations                                                                                      50
D. Price of Outputs
Appraisal Estimate                               PCR Fstimatc
Firewood Small Poles Large Poles Small I imbcr Frirewood Small Poles Large Poles Small Timbcr
(Rs/_3)  (Rs/pole)  (Rs/polc)    (Rs/.3)    (Rs/_3)  (Rs/pole)  (Rs/pole)          Rs/ul
Market Price                210        40         80           700         250         30        345          1,500
Les Felling                  18       0.35        0.80          30          20         5          33            30
Less Il-andling and         42        0.80        1.90          70          50         5          62           270
Transport
Financial Stumpage          150       38.85      77230         600         180         20        250          1,200
or39       or77
Conversion Factor           08         0.8        0.8          0.8         0.8        0.8         0 8         0.8
Economic l'rice             120        31          62          480         144         16        200           960



46
7. Status of Covenants
Sectioat            Summary Dcscription              pc of   Lcvel of    Revised      Original                   Remarks
Covenant Compliance Compliance Compliane
1/        2/         Date        Date
2.02     As and when required. GOK shall employ      MAN          1          //           //
consultants on the basis of World Bank
Guidelines for the use of Consultants,
published in August 1981.
2.05a    GOK shall furnish to the Association their    ORG        1 /                    //
plans, reports, contract documents, work &
procurement schedules for the project, etc.,
in such detail as the Association shall
request.
2.05d    GOK to furnish a report on execution and    RPT          4          //           //
initial operation of the project promptly
after project compietion, but not later than 6
months after the Closing Date.
3.01.ai   GOK to maintain separate records and        FIN         I          //           //
accounts adequate to renlect their resources,
expenditures and operations related to the
project.
3.0l.aii   GOK to furnish copies of their accounts and   FIN      I          //           //
financial statements for each FY as soon as
available but not later tian 9 months after
the end of such year.
3.01.bi   GOK to have their accounts and financial   ADT          1          //           /
statements for each FY audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
3.01.bii  GOK to furnish the Audit Report            ADT          1          //           //
immediately following its finalization.
3.02     GOK to undertake a joint mid-term review    STD          I          //       03/31/87
of the project with the 13orrower and the
Association after third year's planting and
not later than 3.31.87.
8.01(c)   GOK would complete anid submit for IDA     STI)         1       06/30/90    12/31/85
SAR      review the wood supply and dcmand study
by 12.31.85.
SCII 2.1  Positions of regional conseivators of forests   ORG     1       12/31/85    12/31/84
shall be fillcd by 12.31.84.
SCI1.2.1  F:icld Dl(is & quartcr of l)Ci's to be     ORG          I          //        12/31/84  Assistant Conservators instead of DCfls
posted.                                                                                sanctioned.
SCI1.2.2  Principics covering arrangements for sale of   ORG      1       09/30/89    06/30/86
fuelwoxod front Forcst Departnient's lands
shall bc finalized by 6.30.86.
SCI 1.2.3  Bcginning with the 1985-86 planting season,   ORG      I          //          //      Four species arc priced at full cost. For
up to 3,500 casuarina secdlings & up to 500                                            othcr species GOK has dceided to continue
secdlings per family for all other species                                             free distribution up to 10 naked and 3
shall bc distributed frec of charge.                                                   containcrized secdlings and charge in excess
of thcse at 02p and 10 p, respectively.



47
Section            Summary Dcscriptio             Type of  Lcvel of    Rcviscd    Original                  Rcmarks
Covenant Compliancc Compliancc Compliance
I/        2/        Date        Daic
SC}1.2.3  Beginning with 1985-86 planting season,  ORG         2          //         1/    GOK has agreed to charge full price for
excess seedlings will be charged at cost of                                        some seedlings from 1992 planting season.
production.
SCH.2.3  Beginning with 1985-86 planting season,   ORG         I          //         1/              Rcgisters are maintained.
Forest Dcpt. nurseries shall maintain
registers of the numbers of seedlings
distributed to each family.
SCH.2.3  Beginning with 1985-86 planting season,   STD         2          //         //    Review up to FY87 done, because of low
social forestry wing shall conduct field                                           survival and want of space, the number of
reviews during each planting season to                                             seedlings to be distributed reduced
ascertain wastage of seedlings if being                                            substantially from 1989 & to be continued in
minimized.                                                                         future.
1/ ADT  - Audit; FIN  = Financial: MAN  = Management: ORG  = Organizational:  RPT =  Reporting:  STD  = Studies.
2/ 1 - Fully complied; 2 = Partially complied - not affecing implementation:  3 = Non complianec; 4 = Not yet due.
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
Stagc of Projct Cydc             FY84  FY85  17Y86   FY87   FY88   FY8'9  FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94                 Total
Identification/Prcparation       12.6                                                                                       12.6
Appraisal                        44.2                                                                                       44.2
Negotiations                      1 6                                                                                       4.3
Lending Operations
Supervision                               9.6   12.8    7.0      2.8    3.5      0.8     3.8      2.2     0.9     0.1      43.4
Project Compietion                                                                                               15.2       15.2
Total                                                                                                                      119.6



48
B. Mission Data
Xpc of Mission  Month/Yca  NM of D,  in  Speianlztioo   Performacc    Typc do                       Commerts
Pcrom   Fid   Rcpr Ited11  Rlting Stats2/ ProbknC3/
Appraisal          6/84        4                E + F
Supervision 1      9/84        1       7          E                           F    Delays in release of local funds.
Supervision 2      3/85        2       8        E + F                      M + T  Slow progress in appointment of key staff &
inadequate provision of technical advice on
seedling production.
Supervision 3      9/85        3      10      E + S + F                    M + T  Inadequate extension support and wastage of
seedlings distributed.
Supervision 4      6/86        1      10          E                           I    Lack of social participation in departmental
plantations.
Supervision 5      6/87        1      10          E                        M + I  Inadequate extension advice and limited social
participation.
Supervision 6      1/88        1      7           F                          T      Lack of extension technology.
Supervision 7      7/88        1       7          F                        T + M   Lack of extension technology.
Supervision 8      1/89        2       6        F + S            3           M      Implementation problcms in farm forestry.
Supervision 9      7/89        1       4          F              2           M      Limited extension support.
Supervision 10     3/90        1       4          F              2           M      Weak extension and M & E.
Supervision It     8/90        2       7          F              2         1 + M   Bencfit distribution problematic; extension
and M & E inefficient.
Supervision 12     3/91        3       S        A + F            2            F    Local fund availability.
Supervision 13     8/91        3       5        F + S            2           M      Inadequate extension.
Supervision 14     3/92        2       7          F              2           M      Lack of coordination.
Supervision 15     10/92       2       6          F              I           M      Lack of coordination with Territorial Forestry
Division. insufficient M & E, & poor quality of
nursery stock.
1/ Specialization representcd: A - Agriculture; E - Economics; F - Forestry, S - Sociology.
2/ Performance rating status: I - No significant problems: 2 = Moderatc problems: 3 - Major problems being addressed adequately.
31 Type of problem: I - Institutional: F - Financial; M - Management: T * Technical.



49
INDIA Kerala Social Foretry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Pmoject Completion Raport
Table 1. Exchange Rate and Inflation Factors
Exchange Rate 1,               Wholesale Price Index
Fiscal Year               (at Rs to US$1.00)              (Base Year 1993-100)
(Period Average)
1984/85                       11.89                             190.0
1985/86                       12.24                             182.0
1986/87                       12.79                             172.0
1987/88                        12.97                            159.0
1988/89                        14.48                            148.0
1989/90                        16.66                            138.0
1990/91                        17.95                            125.0
1991/92                       24.52                             109.9
1992/93                       26.41                             100.0
/ IMF - Intcrnational Financial Statistics.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Project Completion Report
Table 2.   Cost Overrurts
Appraisal Estimate                                       Actual Expenditure                                  Cost Overrun
Item                                  in FY84 Prices            Actual Expenditure             in FY84 Prices                 Total         |       Price                  uantity
.    ............................ . (Rs million) .
Plantation activities                       345.7                        541.8                       393.8                       57                    43                     14
Other costs                                 253.5                        355.0                       239.8                       40                    45                     (5)
T8I
Total Cost                                  599.2                       896.8                        633.6                       50                    4.6                                   0



51
ANNEX 1
FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
A. INTRODUCTION
1.        This annex presents a discussion of the financial and economic assumptions
and results of investments made by farmers and the Forest Department under the Kerala
Social Forestry Project. Returns to these investments have been computed on the basis
of estimated yields and they must therefore be considered interim.
2.        Three types of analysis have been carried out. First, a financial cash flow
analysis was prepared from the investor's point of view to determine the financial
viability of the plantation models.  This analysis was not carried out at appraisal.
Secondly, economic analysis of plantations raised by farmers and the Forest Department
was carried out using only direct costs of plantations covering farm forestry, large block
plantation, small block plantation, and strip plantation. Finally, an economic analysis
was carried out for the project as a whole using both the direct costs of plantation
establishment and maintenance, and indirect costs of management. In doing so, no
benefits have been included for the tribal medicinal pilot programme (in line with the
appraisal methodology), or for tribal fuelwood plantations (due to insufficient data).
3.        Kerala is dominated by small-scale farmers who have, on average, land
holdings of less than one hectare. Most of their plantings under the project have been
on bunds or peripheries of homesteads as they cannot plant their small land holdings
with forest species and wait for 5-15 years to receive a return. Available evidence
suggests that some of the larger farmers have gone in for tree planting (particularly teak)
in their agricultural fields but the area involved would not exceed 5% of the total area
planted under farm  forestry.  Departmental plantations have generally been on
'wastelands' some of which had previously been subject to grazing. Opportunity cost of
land in both cases (field crops and grass) has been considered in deriving the financial
and economic rate of return, although, at appraisal no land value had been imputed for
grass on departmental plantations on wasteland.
4.        The annex is divided into two main sections. The first provides the results
of the financial analysis while the second gives the economic rates of return for
plantations established under the project.
B. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
General
5.        The financial cash flow analysis indicates that all four plantation models on
a per ha basis are quite profitable, generating financial rates of return ranging from 33%



52
INDIA: Kerala Social Forest-y Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Eronomic Re-cvaluation
Project Comple6ion Report
(large block plantation), 43%  (farm forestry), 50%  (strip plantation) and 57%  (small
block plantations) (see Tables 1-4).
6.         Costs are calculated per hectare and 1992/93 prices are used for both costs
and returns. Farmers' labour inputs and products accruing to rural households have been
valued at imputed prices equal to market wage rate (Rs4O/man-day) and output prices
ranging from Rs2O/pole to Rsl,200/m3 for timber (see Part III/6D).
Establishment Cost
7.         Plantation costs have obviously varied from place to place, depending on
different site conditions, methods of work and type of production units. However, on
average costs have been estimated from these figures based on data provided by the
Forest Department and updated to 1992/93 prices. The updated figures are provided
in Table 1 (farm forestry), in Table 2 (large block plantation), in Table 3 (small block
plantation) and in Table 4 (strip plantation). In summary, the total cost is reckoned at
Rs5,320/ha (farm forestry), Rsl5,886/ha (large block), Rs8,713/ha (small block) and
RslO,750/ha (strip plantation). As expected, farm forestry represents the lowest cost
model.
Plantation Mlaintenance
8.         Plantation  maintenance  is estimated  to  cost Rs9O/ha  (departmental
plantations) annually. No maintenance, except for casualty replacement, is assumed for
smallholder farm forestry.
Production Volume
9.         Projected production at SAR and PCR estimated production are given below:



53
INDLA: Kcrala Social Forestry Projcct (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Rc-evaluation
Project Complction Report
SAR                          PCR
Production                 Farm Forestry I Public Lands   Farm Forestry | Public Lands
................. . . . . . . .  (million m3). 
Fuelwood                        7.7           4.2            2.0            3.22
Poles                          19.5            4.5           0.43           0.75
Timber                         13.9            -             9.91             -
Sub-Total                      41.1           8.7           12.34           3.97
Total                                49.8                          16.31
10.        The differences in product mix and quantities between the SAR and PCR
arise from changes in:
(i)    Species  mix.    The  agro-forestry  component  in  the  SAR
recommended that casuarina be planted at a density of 3,000
seedlings/ha on a hectare equivalent basis. Similarly, high yielding
eucalyptus species were expected to form a substantial proportion of
the species mix. However, based on seedling distribution records and
reports, and mission estimates, casuarina's contribution to the species
mix at the time of planting was only 16% of the total planted stock,
while ailanthus and teak accounted for 41% and 10% of the species
composition at distribution. In addition, the relative survival rates of
these species1l have further skewed the stand composition towards
teak and ailanthus. Eucalyptus is practically non-existent. Therefore,
in the established phase, teak and ailanthus will represent up to 80%
of the growing stock.
(ii)    Densities. As a consequence of these species changes, the densities
expected at SAR (for example 3,000 seedlings/ha) were not
achievable. Furthermore, the farming systems in which those species
had to be integrated into did not lend themselves to such high
density planting. Moreover, farm land being at such a premium in
Kerala, the farmer very rationally puts it to production of a product
of the highest possible value. His perceived returns should justify his
land, labour and capital investments. Energy for fuel production,
though an important commodity and reportedly scarce, does not
match well with high-value products like teak and ailanthus timber;
1,  56% for icak, 45% for aiinlnhus ;ind only 9% for casuarinat.



54
IN'DIA: Kerala Social Forestry Projcct (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Rc-cvaluation
Project Compiction Report
more so when substantial domestic energy needs are met from
coconut husks and other tree crops. These changes in management
goals have led to changes in densities at which these tree species
have been raised.
(iii)   Survival rates. Moreover, the survival rates of the farm  forestry
component have been about 40% as against 60% expected at
appraisal. This means that even on an increased national area of
79,962 ha, only 31,984 ha are under actual production as against
41,520 productive hectares expected at SAR. Similarly, in public
land plantations the established stand densities were estimated at
6,000 stems for casuarina with an initial spacing of up to 10,000
seedlings/ha. However, the PCR estimates are in the 2,200 to 2,400
range for Casuarina equisetfolia and Acacia auriculiformis on
government lands. One of the consequences of this deviation in
densities is the reduced pole production. Finally, it seems that total
project production estimates of 49.8 million m3 are not in agreement
with the MAI estimates given for different species in the SAR. The
total production level would require an MAI of about 20 m3/ha/yr,
which is even higher than the highest yielding species, i.e. Eucalyptus
tereticornis in this case at 15 m3/ha/yr.
11.        Estimates of total production are summarized below.
Unit      Farm       U rge     Small    Strip       Total
(million)   Forestry  Block      Block
Fuelwood                m3        2.00       2.95      0.20      0.068      5.22
Poles                   No.
- small (7.5 cm, dia.)            2.88        -          -         -        2.88
- large (10 cm, dia.)             8.48      15.05      1.49      0.50      25.52
Timber                  m3        9.91        -          -         -        9.91
The planted area by plantations models and by year is given in Table 8.
12.        Per hectare yield estimates of major species planted under the project are
given below.



55
INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Species                   MAI per ha per year of Woody Biomass        Rotation (years)
Acacia auriculiformis                         9.5 m3 or 6 mt.                     8 to 10
Ailanthus triphysa                            10 m3 or 6.3 mt.                      10
Casuarina equisetfolia                        9.5 m3 or 6 mt.                     8 to 10
Grevillia                                      8 m3 or 5 mt.                        15
Teak (Tectona grandis)                        12 m3 or 8 mt.                      40 - 60
Note:
1. These are silviculturally available production estimates, actual yields may be lower due to fire
damage, or loss due to illicit felling, etc.
2. Pole dimensions are:           Small = 6 m long, 7.5 cm dia., = 0.0185 m3/pole;
0Large = 8 m long, 10 cm dia., = 0.044 m3/pole.
3.   mJ = 0.63 mt.
Output Prices
13.          Prices used  in calculating  financial revenues are unit values which the
producing unit expects to obtain at stump. Average 1992/93 prices prevailing in the
project areas have been used, net of felling, handling and transportation costs. The
financial prices and standing values are given in Part III/6D and summarized below.
Financial Prices at Stump
Fuelwood          Small Poles         Large Poles          Timber
(Rs/m3)            (Rs/polc)          (Rs/Polc)           (Rs/m3)
At Appraisal              150                 39                  77                 600
At PCR                    180                 20                 250               1,200
The opportunity cost of land has been estimated at Rsl,000/ha/yr for agricultural fields
and at RslOO/ha/yr for grass in wastelands.
Financial Rates of Return
14.         On the basis of the foregoing discussion, cost and revenue projections have
been prepared with an assumed project life of 32 years. These are presented in Tables
1-4 and the results of the analysis are summarized below.



56
INDIA: Kerala Social Forcstry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evalualion
Project Compiction Rcport
FRR
(%)
Farm forestry                                          42.5
Large block plantation                                 33.0
Small block plantation                                 56.9
Strip plantation                                       50.3
C. ECONONIIC RE-EVALUATION
General
15.       An economic re-evaluation has been undertaken for the project as a whole
and for farm forestry and departmental plantations comprising large block, small block
and strip plantations. Following the SAR, only direct costs of plantations have been
included in estimating the ERR for component plantations. Other main assumptions and
estimates made in the SAR and PCR are set out below.
Appraisal Estimates
16.       At appraisal, the project's economic rate of return (ERR) was estimated to
be 26%, and the rates of return of the component plantations to be 33% for farm
forestry and 15-26% for departmental plantations based on the following assumptions:
-      project life of 30 years, including an implementation period of 6
years;
-      initial mortality/wastage rate of 40%;
-      all farm labour valued at 60% of market wage rates;
-      a standard conversion factor of 0.8 applied to all prices;
-      opportunity cost of land valued at Rs200/ha/yr for planting by
farmers, and no land value imputed for departmental plantations on
wasteland;
-      no benefits included for the pilot tribal programme for cultivation of
medicinal plants.



57
INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Projcct (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Rc-evaluation
Project Completion Rcport
PCR Estimates
17.       The recalculation of the ERR's follows the SAR methodology. The main
differences are:
-      actual costs are used for project years FY1984-85 to 1992-93 with
past expenditures restated in FY1992/93 prices using wholesale price
index;
-      all values are expressed in constant 1992/93 price terms, the project's
completion year;
-      all farm labour valued at 70% of market wage rates to be consistent
with calculations in National Social Forestry PCR;
-      opportunity cost of land valued at Rsl,000/ha/yr for block planting
by farmers (about 5% of the area) and RslOO/ha/yr for grazing lands
in government wastelands;
-      no benefits quantified for tribal fuelwood plantations because of
insufficient data and insignificant area involved (1.6%);
-      costs after project completion include 1% of the total expenditure for
civil works as maintenance, 10% of staff salaries and 10% of vehicle
and office operating costs of the year 1992/93 to continue, and
Rs9O/ha/yr as plantation maintenance for departmental plantations;
and
a combined economic rate of return calculated for the three
plantation models (large block, small block and strip plantations)
because of inadequate and incomplete monitoring data segregated by
individual models.
18.       Phased investment costs in financial terms and economic values for the
purpose of the analysis are shown in Tables 5, 6 & 7. The details regarding planted area
(see Table 8) and expected production are discussed above.
19.       Based on the above assumptions, species mix and expected yields, the current
estimates of ERRs for the project as a whole, for farm forestry and for the combined
plantation model are 33%, 45%, and 29% respectively (see Tables 9-1 1). The principal
factors which have contributed to the higher ERRs as compared with the appraisal
estimates are the following:



58
INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
(i)        improved output prices, particularly for timber;
(ii)      shift of species mix to high value species (teak and ailanthus) as
opposed to appraisal expectations of casuarina, eucalyptus and
acacia;
(iii)     increase in planted area by 32% (from 85,300 ha at appraisal to
112,373 ha at project completion).
The lower expected production due to reduced survival rate (40% in contrast to the
appraisal estimate of 60%) was more than offset by the above factors.
20.        Sensitivity analysis indicates that a reduction in benefits by 20% will lower
the ERR for the project as a whole to 29%; a reduction by 50% will lower the ERR to
22%; while an increase in cost by 20% will lower the ERR to 30%; and an increase in
cost by 50% will lower the ERR to 27%. A combined reduction in benefits and increase
in costs by 50% will lower the ERR to 16%. The project is therefore not sensitive to
variations in either costs or revenue. The results are presented in Table 12.
21.        It can be concluded that, on the basis of the above analysis, social forestry
in Kerala is both financially and economically profitable. Indirect benefits resulting from
water and soil conservation (presently excluded) would have pushed up the ERRs. It is
also clear that the farmers have utilized the land for maximizing possible benefit by
planting high value trees, in contrast to appraisal expectations.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Tabte 1.   Farm Forestry:  Finnmcial Costs and Returns per ha (Rs'000)                                             (Page 1)
1    2-03       4    5-07        8       9       10   11-14       15      16   17-23       24   25-31       32
Costs
1/ 2/
Establish. & maint. costs   5.084   0.118             -            -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -       -        -
Opportunity cost of land    0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050
Total costs                  5.134   0.168   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050   0.050
Benefits
Fuelwood                         -        -   0.022       -   0.416        -   1.562        -   0.450   0.900        -   1.170        -       -
Smalt poles                      -        -  0.720         -       -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Large poles                      -        -               -  26.500        -                                                                  , --
Small timber                     -        -       -        -       -       - 63.360         -        -       -       -                         -
Large timber                     -          -     -        -       -       -        -       -  11.040  20.232           30.192        -  23.832
Total benefits                   -        -   0.742        -  26.916       - 64.922         -  11.490  21.132        - 31.362         -  23.832
Net benefits                -5.134  -0.168   0.692  -0.050  26.866  -0.050  64.872  -0.050  11.440  21.082  -0.050  31.312  -0.050  23.782
FRR = 42.5%
1/ Seedling price Rsl,122.00 (mix of species - ailanthus, casuarina, grevillia, teak, mahogany and others), transportation cost Rs250/= (=/10 per seedling), crow bar
planting cost of RslO0 for teak at =/40 per stump for 250 plants, pit digging for 2,250 plants at =/70 per pit Rsl,575/=, planting cost of Rs785 for 2,250 plants at
=/35 per plant, fertilizer 10 gram/plant at =/50 per plant for Rs1,250 - all totalling 5,084 in Year 1, and casualty replacement at Rs118 in Years 2 & 3.
2/ Costs in 1992/93 prices.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 1.   Farm Forestry:  Calculation of Benefits (Rs'000)                                               (Page 2)
..---   -- . . . .   - -- -- -- -- . - . - . . .   -- -- . . . - -- -- . . . . . . . . . .   -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- --...........
1-03       4    5-07       8        9      10   11-14       15      16   17-23      24   25-31       32
...-                                           --------.--
Fuelwood price (m3)      0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18
Large poles              0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25
Small potes               0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02    0.02
Small timber              1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20    1.20
Fuelwood (m3)                -    0.12       -   2.31         -    8.68        -    2.50    5.00       -   6.50         -       -
Small poles (no.)            -   36.00                -                -               -       -                -
Large Poles (no.)            -       -       -  106.00        -       -        -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Small timber                 -       -        -       -       -   52.80        -       -       -       -        -       -
Large timber                 -       -        -       -       -       -        -    9.20   16.86       -   25.16        -   19.86
fuetwood benefits            -    0.02       -   0.42         -    1.56        -    0.45    0.90       -    1.17                - -
Small poles benefits         -    0.72        -       -          -    -        -           -       -        -       -           -
Large poles benefits         -       -       -   26.50        -                    -       -       -        -                   -
SmaIl  timber benefits       -       -        -       -       -  63.36         -       -       -       -        -       -       -
Large timber benefits        -       -       -        -       -       -        -   11.04   20.23       -  30.19         -   23.83
.----.. .----



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 2.  Large atock Plantations:  Financiat Costs and Returns per ha (Rs'O00)
1       2        3         4        5        6        7     8-09       10   11-32
Costs
Establish. & maint. costsi/ 7.553   4.588    2.070    0.625    0.550    0.500          -        -        -        -
Opportunity cost of land    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100   0.100
Total costs                  7.653   4.688    2.170    0.725    0.650    0.600    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits
Fuelwood                         -        -   0.432    0.432    1.800         -   0.216    0.432   16.020         -
Large poles                                        -            -         -            -        - 140.000
Total benefits                   -        -   0.432    0.432    1.800         -   0.216    0.432  156.020         -
Net benefits                -7.653   -4.688   -1.738   -0.293    1.150   -0.600    0.116    0.332  155.920   -0.100
--  --- ___ -- - - - - -- - - --- - - --. -- -------- ----- - - - -- - --- - -- - -  -- - --- -- -- - -- -- - - - ---- - -- - -- - --- - - - - - - ------ - - - - - - - ---------
FRR  = 32.98%
Calculation of Benefits
1-02   3-04       5       6        7   8-09       10   11-32
Fuetwood price (m3)    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18   0.18    0.18
Large poles            0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25
Fuelwood (m3)              -   2.40   10.00        -    1.20   2.40  89.00         -
Large Poles (no.)          -           -       -           -       - 560.00        -
Fuelwood benefits          -   0.43    1.80        -   0.22    0.43   16.02        -
Large poles benefits                   -       -           -       - 140.00
1/ Costs as provided by the Forest Department starting from 1987/88 for a typical hectare, which was updated to 1992/93 using UPl.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 3.   Smalt Block Plantatiorns:  Financiat Costs and Returns per ha (Rs'000)
1        2         3      4-07         8     9-32
Costs
Establish. & maint. costs    4.3T3    2.960    1.380             -         -         -
Opportunity cost of land       0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Total costs                    4.473    3.060    1.480    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits
Fuelwood                           -         -    1.800          -   11.700          -
Large poles                         -        -         -            137.500
Total benefits                     -         -    1.800          -  149.200          -
Net benefits                  -4.473   -3.060    0.320   -0.100  149.100   -0.100
FRR = 56.9%
Calculation of Benefits
1-02       3    4-07         8    9-32
Fuetwood price (m3)       0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18
Large poles               0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25
Fuelwood (m3)                -   10.00         -   65.00        -
Large Poles (no.)            -        -        -  550.00
Fuelwood benefits            -    1.80         -   11.70        -
Large poles benefits         -        -        -  137.50        -
1/ Costs as provided by the Forest Department starting from 1987/88 for a typical hectare, which was updated to 1992/93 using WPI.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Comptetion Report
Tabtc 4.   Strip Plantations:  Fin.anciat Costs and Returns per ha (Rs'000)
1        2        3      4-07        a     9-32
Costs
Estabtish. L maint. costs 1/ 6.360    3.700    0.690           -        -         -
Opportunity cost of land      0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100    0.100
Total costs                   6.460    3.800    0.790    0.100    0.100    0.100
Benefits
Fuetwood                          -         -    1.800         -   11.700         -
Large poles                       -         -        -         -  137.500         -
Total benefits                    -         -    1.800         -  149.200         -
Net benefits                 -6.460   -3.800    1.010   -0.100  149.100   -0.100
FRR = 50.3X
Calculation of Benefits
1-02       3    4-07        8    9-32
Fuelwood price (m3)      0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18
Large poles              0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25    0.25
Fuelwood (m3)               -   10.00        -   65.00        -
Large Poles (no.)                   -        -  550.00        -
Fuelwood benefits           -    1.80        -   11.70        -
Large poles benefits                -        -  137.50        -
1/ Costs as provided by the Forest Department starting from 1987/88 for a typical hectare, which was updated to 1992/93 using WP1.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Conaletion Report
Tabte S.   Irivestment Costs in financiat and Econamic Terms (Rs million)
1. INVESTMENiT COSTS                  1984-851         1985-861         1986-871         1987-88|         1988-89|         1989-90|         1990-91|         1991-92|        1992-93
Civil works                             0.943            8.983            14.701           13.349           13.467           12.965           10.717           19.530         95.429
Ecoinmc Cost at CF.66                   0.622            5.929            9.703            8.810            8.888             8.557            7.073           12.890         62.983
Vehicles, Equipment &                   4.700            5.733            2.104             1.309            2.601            1.983            1.909            1.354         11.333
Furniture
Economic Cost at CF.66                  3.102            3.784             1.387           0.864             1.717            1.309            1.260           0.894           7.U0
Seedling Production Farm                5.419           20.259           29.519           27.302            26.671           5.778            8.112            10.412         14.290
Forestry
Economic Cost at CF.70                  3.793           14.181           20.663            19.111           18.670            4.045           5.678             7.288         10.003
Seedting Production                     1.160            4.133            6.903            8.754             9.342           6.486            5.972            15.635         10.758
Goverrwnental
Econic Cost at CF.70                    0.812            2.893            4.832            6.128             6.539            4.540            4.180           10.944          7.531
Plantation Establishment                2.332           14.585            26.351           29.253           27.087           24.424           25.070           34.704         45.932
Ecornic Cost at CF.70                   1.632           10.209            18.446          20.477            18.961           17.097           17.549           24.293         32.152
Plantation Management                   0.415            0.789             4.751           6.178             7.114           12.177           15.731           20.277         27.713
Ecornmic Cost at CF.70                  0.290            0.552             3.326            4.325            4.980            8.524           11.012           14.194         19.399
Training                                0.069            0.153            0.250            0.555             0.144            0.035           0.353             0.051          0.230
Econric Cost at CF.97                   0.067            0.148             0.242            0.538            0.140            0.034            0.342            0.049          0.223        X
Research 4 Studies                      0.021            0.068             0.053            0.151            0.114            1.195            0.558            2.378          0.127
Econic Cost at CF.78                    0.016            0.053             0.041            0.118            0.089            0.932            0.435            1.855          0.099
Total Investment Costs in              15.059           54.703           84.632           86.851           86.540            65.043           68.422          104.341        205J812
Finrnciat Term
Totat Irvest.ent Costs in              10.334           37.749           58.640           60.371            59.984           45.038           47.529           72.407        139.570
Ecoroic Term
11. OPERATING COSTS
Staff Salaries                          3.552            6.561            8.468            9.997            11.162           12.799           16.697           18.213         19.529
Economic Cost at CF1.0                  3.552            6.561            8.468            9.997            11.162           12.799           16.697           18.213         19.529
Vehicle Operating Costs                 0.403            0.906             1.003            1.008            1.100            1.109            1.160            1.309          1.825
Economic Cost at CFO.80                 0.322            0.725            0.802            0.806             0.880            0.887            0.928            1.047          1.460
Office Operating Costs                  0.485            0.771             0.955            1.033            0.850            0.835            0.964            1.255          1.414
Ecanic Cost at CF.K4                    0.407            0.648             0.802            0.868            0.714            0.701            0.810            1.054          1.187
Totat Operating Costs in                4.440            8.238            10.426           12.038           13.112           14.743           18.821          20.777          22.768
Financiat Terms
Total  Project Costs in                19.499           62.941           95.058           98.889           99.652            79.786          87.243           125.118        228.580
Financiat Term
Totat Project Costs in                 14.615           45.683           68.712           72.042            72.740           59.417           65.964          92.721         162.046
Ecornic Term
UPI                                      1.90             1.82              1.72             1.59             1.48             1.38             1.25             1.10          1.000
Totat Project Economic Cost            27.768           83.143           118.185         114.547           107.655           81.955          82.455          101.993         162.046
in 1992/93 Terms



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Com4petion Report
Table 6.   Financial and Economic Costs
FY84-85        FY85-86       FY86-87   I  FY87-88   I  FY88-89          FY89-90   I  FY90-91   I  FY91-92           FY91-92
Farm Forestry                                . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (Rs million) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Seedling Proruction
-  Financial Cost                        5.419          20.259         29.519        27.302        26.671         5.778         8.112         10.412         14.290
- Economic Cost (CF.70)                  3.793          14.181         20.663        19.111        18.670         4.045         5.678          7.288         10.003
- UPi                                      190           182            172            159           148           138            125           110            100
-  Economic Cost in 92/93 price          7.207          25.809         35.540        30.386        27.632         5.582         7.097          8.017         10.003
Depart ental Plantations
Seedling Production                                                                                                                                                             ON
-  Financial cost                         1.160         4.133          6.903         8.754          9.342         6.486         5.972         15.635         10.758
Plantation Estabtishment
-  Financial cost                        2.332          14.585         26.351        29.253        27.087         24.424        25.070        34.704         45.932
Plantation Management
-  Financial cost                        0.415          0.789          4.751         6.178          7.114         12.177        15.731        20.277         27.713
Totat Financial Cost                      3.907         19.507         38.005        44.185        43.543         43.087        46.T73        70.616         84.403
Total Econrmic Cost                       2.735         13.655         26.604        30.929        30.480         30.161        32.741        49.431         59.082
Economic cost in 92/93 price              5.196         24.852         45.759        49.177        45.110         41.622        40.926        54.374         59.082



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evatuation
Tabte 7.   Ecorincic Cost of Farm Forestry and Department Plantations (Rs miltion)
1984-85       1985-86      1986-87       1987-88       1988-89        1989-90        1990-91        1991-92        1992-93        1993-94      1994-95
Farm Forestry
Seedting Production                      7.207        25.809        35.540        30.386       27.632           5.582          7.097         8.017         10.003             -            -
Establishment l Maintenance             17.064        36.098        84.929        71.762       66.556           9.002         11.017         6.982          8.739           0.348        0.194
SL4b-totat                            24.271        61.907      120.469        102.148       94.188         14.584         18.114         14.999         18.742          0.348         0.194
Depart etat Ptantations I/
Seedling production, esta-               5.196        24.852        45.759        49.177       45.110          41.622        40.926         54.374         59.082            2.95         2.95
blishment & maintenance
Civit Works & Vehicles                   7.076        17.678        19.075        15.382        15.695         13.615         10.416         15.162        70.463           1.846        1.846   c
Training, Research & Studies             0.158         0.366         0.487         1.043         0.339          1.333         0.971           2.094         0.322             -            -
Staff Sataries                           6.749        11.941        14.565        15.895        16.520         17.662        20.871         20.034          19.529          1.953        1.953
Vehicte & Office Operating               1.385         2.499         2.759         2.661         2.359          2.191          2.172          2.311         2.647          0.265         0.265
Costs
Sub-totat                             20.564        57.336       82.645        84.158        80.023         76.423         75.356         93.975        152.043          7.014         7.014
TOTAL COSTS                             44.835       119.243      203.114        186.306      174.211         91.007         93.470        108.974        170.785          7.362         7.208
Costs after FY 1993 are estimated at Rs9O/ha/yr for departmental ptantations, 1% of totat expenditure for civil works, 10% of 1992/93 staff salaries and 10% of FY 1993
expenditure for vehicle and operating costs.



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Comptetion Report
Table 8.   PhysicaL Phasing
1984-85       1985-86   |  1986-87  |  1987-88   |   1988-89   |   1989-90             1990-91         1991-92          1992-93
1. Farm Forestry (ha)                      4,795         10,032        21,425        17,339         17,802         1,714           2,643          1,861            2,351
2. Departmental Plantation (ha)
-  large btock                               322          1,434         2,338         2,447          2,870         2,139           4,366          4,626            6,333
-  small block                                23            123           172           419            580           388             383             198             425                  co
-  strip                                      50             65            66           169            125           344              54              3               35



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 9.   Economic Antalysis:  Total Project (Rs million)                                                     (Page 1)
1         2          3          4          5          6          7         8          9         10         11        12         13
Costs
Farm For. maint.9 land        15.704    43.824    74.244    62.923    61.857    12.183    15.438    15.101    18.051             4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000
Dep. Pl. maint. and land       5.235    25.054    46.218    49.940    46.230    43.029    42.814    56.744    62.132             6.000      6.000     6.000      6.000
Other Expenditures
Civil works and vehicles       7.076    17.678    19.075    15.382    15.695    13.615    10.416    15.162    70.463             1.846      1.846      1.846     1.846
Training, res. & studies       0.158      0.366      0.487      1.043      0.339      1.333     0.971      2.094      0.322          -          -          -
Staff salaries                 6.749    11.941    14.565    15.895    16.520    17.662    20.871    20.034    19.529             1.953      1.953      1.953     1.953
Vehicle L office operat.       1.385      2.499      2.759      2.661      2.359      2.191     2.172      2.311      2.647      0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265
Total costs                   36.307   101.362   157.348   147.844   143.000    90.013    92.682   111.446   173.144    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064                   Co
Benefits
Farm Forestry                       -         -          -      2.845      5.952    12.711    10.287   113.811   217.032   711.947   895.500  1497.489   937.459
DepartmentaL Plantation             -          -     0.183      0.734      2.039      4.210     6.043    15.442    29.532    76.610   259.418   386.131   406.198
Total benefits                      -         -      0.183      3.578      7.991    16.921    16.330   129.253   246.564   788.557  1154.917  1883.620  1343.657
Net benefits                 -36.307  -101.362  -157.165  -144.265  -135.009   -73.093   -76.352    17.807    73.421   774.493  1140.854  1869.556  1329.593
ERR = 33.2%



INDIA:  Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financiat and Economic Re-evatuation
Project CoWmletion Report
Table 9.   Economic Analysis:  Total Project (Rs million)                                                 (Page 2)
14        15        16         17        18        19         20        21        22         23        24        25         26
Costs
farm For. maint.& land        4.000     4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000
Dep. Pi. maint. and Lanrd     6.000     6.000      6.000     6.000     6.000      6.000     6.000     6.000      6.000     6.000     6.000      6.000     6.000
Other Expenditures
Civil works and vehicles      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846     1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846
Training, res. & studies          -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -
Staff salaries                1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953
Vehicle & office operat.      0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265
Total costs                  14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064
Benefits
Farm Forestry               981.510   173.169   361.172   463.192   643.689   456.762   316.709    53.271    61.788    53.072   160.050   251.699   537.545
Departmental Ptantation    413.477   296.906   601.515   583.566   790.460            -         -          -         -         -          -         -
Total benefits             1394.986   470.076   962.687  1046.758  1434.148   456.762   316.709    53.271    61.788    53.072   160.050   251.699   537.545
Net benefits               1380.922   456.012   948.623  1032.694  1420.085   442.698   302.645    39.207    47.724    39.008   145.986   237.635   523.481
-- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - . -   . -   - - - - .   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



INDIA: Kerata Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Tabte 9.   Economic Anatysis:  TotaL Project (Rs mittion)                                                   (Page 3)
27        28         29        30         31        32         33        34         35        36         37        38         39        40
Costs
Farm For. maint.A  land       4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000     4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000
Dep. Pt. maint. and tand      6.000      6.000     6.000      6.000      6.000     6.000      5.960     5.798      5.540     5.237     4.879      4.592     4.112      3.629
Other Expenditures
Civit works and vehicles      1.846      1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846      1.846     1.846
Training, res. L studies           -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -                                         - .  -  -
Staff salaries                1.953      1.953      1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953      1.953     1.953
Vehicle & office operat.      0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265      0.265     0.265
Total costs                  14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.064    14.024    13.862    13.604    13.301    12.943    12.656    12.176    11.693               o
Benefits
Farm Forestry               435.029   446.645    43.004    66.312    46.692   150.405   191.266   408.480   330.578   339.406    32.678    50.390    35.481    44.823
Departmental Plantation                      -          -         -                     -                              -         -          -         -                    -
Total benefits              435.029   446.645    43.004    66.312    46.692   150.405   191.266   408.480   330.578   339.406    32.678    50.390    35.481    44.823
Net benefits                420.965   432.581    28.940    52.248    32.628   136.342   177.242   394.618   316.974   326.105    19.735    37.734    23.305    33.130
- - - - - - - - -- - - - - - --   -- - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - -----     --   - . .-   --   -.-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Com,pletion Report
Table 10.   Farm Forestry:  Economic Costs and Returns (Rs million)                                                 (Page 1)
1         2          3          4          5          6          7         8          9         10         11         12         13
Costs
Seedt. , est. & mainten.      15.464    43.084    72.434    60.243    58.287          8.533    11.648    11.221    14.051            -          -          -          -
opportunity cost of land       0.240      0.740      1.810      2.680      3.570      3.650     3.790      3.880      4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000
Total costs                   15.704    43.824    74.244    62.923    61.857    12.183    15.438    15.101    18.051             4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000
Benefits
Fueltwood                          -          -          -      0.083      0.173      0.370     0.300      1.903      3.367    13.166    18.339    32.742    22.243
Small poles                         -          -         -      2.762      5.778    12.341      9.987    10.254       0.987      1.522      1.072     1.354           -
Large poles                         -          -         -          -          -          -          -   101 .654   212.678   454.210   367.587   377.402    36.337
Small timber                        -          -         -          -          -          -          -          -          -   243.049   508.502  1085.990   878.879
Large timtber                       -                    -          -          -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Total benefits                      -          -                2.845      5.952    12.711    10.287   113.811   217.032   711.947   895.500  1497.489   937.459
Met benefits                 -15.704   -43.824   -74.244   -60.078   -55.905          0.528    -5.151    98.710   198.981   707.947   891.500  1493.489   933.459
ERR  =  44.9%



INDIA: Kerata Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 10.   farm Forestry:  Economic Costs and Returns (Rs mitlion)                                               (Page 2)
----
14        15         16         17        18         19         20        21         22         23        24         25        26
Costs
Seedl. , est. & mainten.           -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -
Opportunity cost of land       4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000
Totat costs                    4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000      4.000
Benefits
Fuetwood                      23.130     4.488    11.149    17.262    24.607    18.893    13.434          2.186     2.573      2.186      6.181     9.390    20.054
Smalt poles                        -          -          -          -         -          -                    --                   -                     -         -
Large potes                   56.032    39.453    49.841            -         -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -                         ro
Smatt tiffber                902.348    86.879   133.968    94.330   119.167             -          -         -          -         -          -          -         -
Large timber                       -    42.349   166.213   351.600   499.915   437.869   303.274    51.085    59.215    50.885   153.869   242.309   517.491
Total benefits               981.510   173.169   361.172   463.192   643.689   456.762   316.709    53.271    61.788    53.072   160.050   251.699   537.545
Net benefits                 977.510   169.169   357.172   459.192   639.689   452.762   312.709    49.271    57.788    49.072   156.050   247.699   533.545
.----------



INDIA: Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 10.   Far. Forestry:  Economic Costs and Returns (Rs mitlion)                                                   (Page 3)
27         28         29         30         31         32         33         34         35         36         37         38         39        40
Costs
Seedt. , est. & mainten.            -          -          -          -          -           -          -          .               -          -                -          -
Opportunity cost of land        4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000
Total costs                     4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000      4.000     4.000
Benefits
Fuelwood                       16.229    16.663       1.604      2.474      1.742      2.201          -           -          -          -          -          -         -          -
SmarL poles                         -          -          -          -          -           -                          -          -          -          -          -
Large poles                                               --                               ....-
Small tirber                        -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Large timber                  418.799   429.982    41.399    63.838    44.950   148.205   191.266   408.480   330.578   339.406    32.678    50.390    35.481    44.823
Total benefits               435.029   446.645    43.004    66.312    46.692   150.405   191.266   408.480   330.578   339.406    32.678    50.390    35.481   44.823
Net benefits                 431.029   442.645    39.004    62.312    42.692   146.405   187.266   404.480   326.578   335.406    28.678    46.390    31.481    40.823
............. -..-- -- - - -- - -- ---- -------.......................- --- -- - --------------.............----- -------..  .......-- --- -----------.-.......---- -- - -- -------.......--...---- ----...  ....--- ----...- ----  .. -.        ..--.....................-.........-__-_



INDIA: Kerata Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 11.   Departmental Plantations:  Economic Costs and Returns (Rs million)                                          (Page 1)
1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8        9        10        11       12        13       14
Costs
Seedt.  estab. L mainten.    5.196   24.852   45.759   49.177  45.110   41.622   40.926   54.374   59.082    2.950    2.950    2.950    2.950    2.950
Opp. cost land smatl  blo.    0.002    0.015    0.032    0.074    0.132    0.170    0.209    0.229    0.271    0.271    0.271    0.271    0.271    0.271
Opp. cost 1. Large blocks    0.032    0.176    0.409    0.654    0.941    1.155    1.592    2.054    2.687    2.687    2.687    2.687    2.687    2.687
Opp. cost l. strip plant.    0.005    0.011    0.018    0.035    0.047    0.082    0.087    0.088    0.091    0.091    0.091    0.091    0.091    0.091
Total costs                    5.235   25.054   46.218   49.940   46.230   43.029   42.814   56.744   62.132    6.000    6.000    6.000    6.000    6.000
Benefits
-4
strip pi. totat benefits           -         -    0.072    0.094    0.095    0.243    0.180    6.463    7.836    7.882   20.222   14.920   41.060    6.445
SmaLl block tot. benefits          -         -        -    0.033    0.177    0.248    0.603    3.365   14.304   20.623   47.985   68.334   48.109   45.762
Large block benefits               -         -    0.111    0.607    1.767    3.719    5.260    5.614    7.392   48.105  191.210  302.877  317.030  361.269
TotaL benefits                     -         -    0.183   0.34    2.039    4.210    6.043   15.442   29.532   76.610  259.418  386.131  406.198  413.4A7
Net benefits                  -5.235  -25.054  -46.035  -49.206  -44.191  -38.820  -36.770  -41.302  -32.600   70.610  253.418  380.131  400.199  407.477
ERR = 29.4X



INDIA: Kerala Social forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Amex 1:  Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Coqpletion Report
Table 11.   Departental  Plantations:  Economic Costs and Returns (Rs miltion)                                                      (Page 2)
-- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- -- - -- -- --  -- - --  -- --  - --  -- --  - --  -- -- --  - --  -- --  - -- --  -- -
15        16         17        18    19-32          33        34         35        36         37        38         39        40
Costs
Seedl.  estab.  minten.    2.950           2.950     2.950      2.950     2.950    2.950       2.950    2.950       2.950      2.950    2.950       2.950     2.950
Opp. cost Land smtal  blo.    0.271         0.271     0.271      0.271     0.271      0.269     0.256    0.239       0.197      0.139    0.101    0.062    0.042
Opp. cost l. large blocks        2.687    2.687    2.687    2.687          2.687    2.655       2.512      2.278    2.033       1.746     1.532      1.096    0.633
Opp. cost l. strip plant.    0.091          0.091     0.091      0.091     0.091      0.086    0.080       0.073    0.056       0.044     0.009      0.004     0.003
Total costs                      6.000    6.000       6.000    6.000    6.000         5.960     5.798    5.540       5.237    4.879    4.592    4.112          3.629
Benefits
Strip pi. total benefits         0.358    4.178            -          -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -         -          -
Small block tot, benefits   25.365   48.603    3.978                                       -
Large block benefits           271.183  548.734  579.588  790.460
Total benefits                 296.906  601.515  583.566  790.460               -          -    -         -               -          -         -         -          -
met benefits                   290.907  595.515  577.566  78.460    -6.000    -5.960    -5.798   -5.540    -5.237   -4.879   -4.592    -4.112    -3.629
.. __----    ---- ----  ----  ----  ----  -----  ---- ----  --  - ----  -.  - ----  -----   ---  ---- ----  ----  ----  ----  -----  - . . . . .   ...-- . . . . . -- . -- _



INDIA:  Kerala Social Forestry Project (Cr.1514-IN)
Annex 1: Financial and Economic Re-evaluation
Project Completion Report
Table 11.   Dcpartmental Plantatiotns:  Econaoic Costs and Returns (Rs mitlion)                                       (Page 3)
Internal Rates of Returns of Net Streams
Present values of Net Streams at a Discount Rate of 12.0%
BToT2O    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWJN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%                            8TOT20    UP 10%    UP 20%    UP 50%  DOWN 10%  DOWN 20%  DOWN 50%
CTOT    33.248    34.853    36.341    40.254    31.501    29.584    22.284
CTOT    2001.5    2265.2    2529.0    3320.3    1737.7    1473.9        682.6                UP 10%    31.667    33.248    34.713    38.565    29.947    28.059    20.870
UP 10%    1937.8    2201.6    2465.4    3256.7    1674.1    1410.3        619.0                UP 20%    30.244    31.803    33.248    37.046    28.549    26.687    19.598
UP 20%    1874.2    2138.0    2401.7    3193.0    1610.5    1346.7         555.4               UP 50%    26.687    28.191    29.584    33.248    25.050    23.254    16.417
UP 50%    1683.4    1947.1    2210.9    3002.2    1419.6    1155.8        364.5              DOWN 10%    35.024    36.657    38.171    42.152    33.248    31.298    23.873
DOWN 10%    2065.1    2328.8    2592.6    3383.9    1801.3    1537.5         746.3             DOWN 20%    37.046    38.711    40.254    44.314    35.236    33.248    25.681
DOWN 20%    2128.7    2392.5    2656.2    3447.5    1864.9    1601.2        809.9              DOWN 50%    45.517    47.317    48.987    53.385    43.560    41.413    33.248           a'
DOWN 50%    2319.6    2583.3    2847.1    3638.4    2055.8    1792.0    1000.7
BTOT20     LAG 1      LAG 2     LAG 3
BTOT20     LAG I      LAG 2     LAG 3
CTOT    33.248    29.069    25.841    23.269
CTOT    2001.5    1718.9    1466.5    1241.2                                                UP 10%    31.667    27.718    24.661    22.222
UP 10%    1937.8    1655.2    1402.9    1177.6                                                UP 20X    30.244    26.500    23.596    21.275
UP 20%    1874.2    1591.6    1339.3    1114.0                                                UP 50%    26.687    23.444    20.916    18.889
UP 50%    1683.4    1400.8    1148.4       923.1                                            DOWN 10%    35.024    30.583    27.161    24.440
DOWN 10%    2065.1    1782.5    1530.1    1304.9                                              DCWN 20X    37.046    32.303    28.658    25.765
DOWN 20%    2128.7    1846.1    1593.8    1368.5                                              DOWN 50%    45.517    39.455    34.851    31 .226
DOWN 50%    2319.6    2036.9    1784.6    1559.3                                                 LAG 1          -    33.248    29.069    25.841
LAG I              1787.0    1534.7    1309.4                                                 LAG 2          -              33.248    29.069
LAG 2                    -    1595.5    1370.3                                                LAG 3                               -    33.248
LAG 3         -                    -    1424.6



