A   CREDIT NUMBER 1514 IN
UMENTS
Project Agreement
(Kerala Social Forestry Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF KERALA
Dated    T4CciRO      (   I       , 1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1514 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     (C/VA      r   2, 1984, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association)  and   STATE  OF  KERALA, acting   by  its   Governor
(hereinafer called Kerala).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even  date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 30,600,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Kerala agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS,   in  accordance   with  the   Borrower's  standard
arrangements for developmental assistance to the States of India,
the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to Kerala on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS Kerala, in     consideration  of  the  Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Kerala declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
the Project described in said Schedule with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and forestry practices.
(b) Kerala shall ensure that, in carrying out the Project,
the implementation procedures set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement are complied with.
Section 2.02. In order to assist Kerala in carrying out the
Project, Kerala shall, as and when required, employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association, such consul-
tants to be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. (a) Kerala undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Kerala to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Kerala
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Kerala shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents, and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.


﻿-3-
(b) Kerala shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Kerala of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Kerala and
the Association, Kerala shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and
to be derived from it, the performance by Kerala and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) Kerala shall enable the Association's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property, equipment, records and documents relevant to the
performance of Kerala's obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) Kerala shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Kerala shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the


﻿-4-
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Kerala of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Kerala shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof to: (i) maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
principles and procedures consistently applied, their resources,
expenditures and operations related to the Project; and (ii)
furnish to the Association copies of their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year, certified
as to their accuracy and authenticity by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Association, as soon as available but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of such year.
(b) Kerala shall cause its departments and other agencies
and authorities responsible for carrying out the Project or any
Part thereof to: (i) have their accounts and financial statements
related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accor-
dance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association immediately following its finaliza-
tion, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning such accounts and records, financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. Kerala shall undertake a joint mid-term review
of the Project with the Borrower and the Association promptly
after completion of the third year's tree planting and not later
than March 31, 1987.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Kerala thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Kerala of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any can-
cellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿For Kerala:
Chief Secretary
Government of Kerala
Secretariat
Trivandrum, Kerala, India
Cable address:
CHIEF SEC
Trivandrum
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Kerala may be taken or executed by the
Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as Kerala shall
designate in writing, and Kerala shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original., and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (S     IftQ      W{     4
Regional Vice President
Acting             South Asia
STATE OF KERALA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
Except as provided in Part C hereof, contracts for civil
works, vehicles, equipment and materials shall be let on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures
satisfactory to the Association, provided, however, that con-
tracts for (i) research equipment estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $20,000 each or less may be procured through normal com-
mercial channels after obtaining quotations from at least three
suppliers; and (ii) proprietary and highly specialized items may
be procured through direct purchase from known sources of supply.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $150,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Kerala shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments  or   procedures  as   the  Association   shall  reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Kerala
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Kerala and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-8-
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission  to the Association of     the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Kerala shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies
of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective
bids, recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform Kerala and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Kerala shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Kerala and
state the reasons for its determination.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
All plantation activities, construction of residential
quarters, and construction of small office buildings estimated to
cost the equivalent of $50,000 each or less, may be carried out
through force account or piece rates established by Kerala for
such works.


﻿-'9-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Procedures
1.   The positions of Regional Conservators of Forests shall be
filled by December 31, 1984.
2.   Principles governing the arrangements for the sale of fuel-
wood from the Forests Department's lands shall be finalized by
June 30, 1986, in consultation with the Association.
3.   Beginning with the 1985-86 planting season, up to 3500
casuarina seedlings (including replacement for losses) per family
and up to 500 seedlings for all other species per family shall be
distributed free of charge. Seedlings in excess of said limit
shall be charged at the actual cost of production. Forests
Department nurseries shall maintain registers in the number of
seedlings distributed to each family, and Social Forestry Wing
shall conduct field reviews during each planting season to ascer-
tain that wastage of seedlings is being minimized.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interria-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day ofD_______
198
FOR SECRETARY


