Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20537
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-35790; SCL-3579A; SCPD-3579S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 155 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR AN EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
June 30, 2000
Transport Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 1999)
Currency Unit = Rupiah
Rp 1 million = US$ 140
US$ 1 = Rp 7,156
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Bappenas            National Development Planning Agency
CTC                 Central Technical Consultants
DGH                 Directorate General of Highways
DGRID               Directorate General of Regional Infrastructure Development
DPUK                Kabupaten Office of Public Works
EMS                 Equipment Management System
ERR                 Economic Rate of Return
FCI                 Field Consultants for Implementation
GOI                 Government of Indonesia
ICR                  Inplementation Completion Report
ISEM                Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management
KEWMI               Kabupaten Equipment and Workshop Management Improvement
KRMTP               Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan
KR3, KREI, KR5      Bank-financed Kabupaten Roads Development Projects
LIW(P)              Labor Intensive Works (Program)
MEIIP               Monitoring and Evaluating Impacts of Kabupaten Roads on Isolated
People
PBPJK               Provincial Technical Support for Kabupaten Roads (Proyek Bantuan
Penanganan Jalan Kabupaten)
REPELITA            Indonesian Five Year Development Plan
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SPABP               Confirmed budget summary, after technical meeting, releasing Inpres
funding
SPEMPC              Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management and Planning
Capability
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:   Jitendra Bajpai, EASTR
Task Teamn Leader/Task Manager:   William D.O. Paterson



Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project
(Ln. 3579-IND)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 9
6. Sustainability                                                                     10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   12
9. Partner Comments                                                                   13
10. Additional Information                                                           14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 24
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    25
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                26
Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                     27






Project ID: P004006                                       Project Name: E.INDONESIA KABUPATE
Team Leader: William D. 0. Paterson                       TL Unit: EASTR
ICR Type: Core lCR                                        Report Date: July 5, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: E.INDONESIA KABUPATE                           L/C/TFNumber: CPL-35790;
SCL-3579A;
SCPD-3579S
Country/Department: INDONESIA                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: TR - Rural Roads
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/01/92                                Effective:                    07/07/93
Appraisal:  10/06/92                                  MTR:
Approval:  03/23/93                                Closing: 06/30/98            12/31/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOI/MHA/MPW
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum                   Mr. Gautam Kaji
Country Manager:     Mr. Mark Baird                            Ms. Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:      Mr. Jitendra Bajpai                       Mr. Anupam Khanna
Team Leader at ICR:   Mr. William D.O. Paterson                Mr. Emmanuel James
ICR Primary Author:   Mr. William D.O. Paterson and
Mr. Ephrem Asebe
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time:



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1   The objectives of the project were to: (a) improve access to the main economic centers for the
agriculture-dependent rural population in 51 Kabupatens in seven provinces (all provinces of Sulawesi, Nusa
Tenggara Barat (NTB) and Nusa Tenggara Timur (NTT) and Irian Jaya); and (b) consolidate the efforts to
strengthen all agencies in the country dealing with Kabupaten roads. The 16 Kabupatens in NTB and NTT
provinces were among the poorest in Indonesia. More specifically, the objectives would be achieved through: (i)
improving procedures for road maintenance and ensuring that the maintainable network was maintained
satisfactorily; (ii) rehabilitating existing roads; (iii) improving staff capability; and (iv) institutional strengthening
for programming and implementation of maintenance, and the utilization of appropriate technologies.
3.1.2  The project was the fourth in a series on rural roads that the Bank financed in Indonesia starting in the
early 1980s. The previous projects (Rural Roads II and Kabupaten Roads III) had established the maintenance
focus, and initiated and authorized improved planning and programming procedures (known by the Decree SK77
applying nationwide from 1990). Under KREI, it was intended that the better procedures and guidelines would be
applied widely and early in the process; Kabupatens would be encouraged to increase funding of maintenance and
prioritize it over betterment; and supervision of quality would receive due attention. For the KR Program, KREI
would address environmental and social impact assessment, and planning and technology improvements. The
project objectives were clear, realistic and mutually reinforcing, set within the framework of the overall program.
The improvements in the quality of the maintenance program and the civil works were to be sustained by
improving staff capability, strengthening institutional arrangements, and improving the technical environment for
planning and implementing Kabupaten road programs. Given the split responsibilities of the existing government
institutions, with central technical oversight and local planning and implementation, the risks related to effecting
change in the implementation of the planning procedures and the timely funding of road maintenance were high.
A decentralized-centralized implementation framework was adopted, in which the central agencies would play only
a supportive and coordinating role. The project was somewhat demanding for the implementing agencies,
involving the coordination of a number of policies, institutions, stakeholders, and loan covenants for
implementation arrangements in these Kabupatens. The project objectives were important to the country's
regional development strategy designed to promote economic and social integration of the outlying regions, as
outlined in the 6th five-year plan (REPELITA VI). The project objectives were also in line with the Bank's goal of
poverty reduction which supported development in the sub-sector, reducing poverty through improved access; more
efficient use of GOI's sizeable budget allocated to Kabupaten roads; and improved technical and institutional
development at sub-sector level where there was special shortage of local expertise.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1  In June 1998, during the East Asia financial crisis and near the end of the Project, the project was
restructured to focus the last 10% of the civil works ($10.5 million loan portion) on poverty reduction by funding
from Project savings a labor-intensive works program (LIWP) in 73 Kabupatens in seven provinces (Jambi, South
Sumatra, Bengkulu, Lampung, Yogyakarta, Jawa Timur, NTB, NTT), i.e., not exclusively the same as the original
51 Kabpuatens. The shift in focus was to help reduce poverty through providing employment and economic
activity, selecting more labor-intensive types of works for maintenance and betterment of roads, and sustaining
small- and medium-contractors. As the original objective was broadly consistent with this, it was not necessary to
have formal approval of the Board of Directors of the Bank. Moreover, the decision to reallocate the savings in the
project was made in the larger context of alleviating the adverse impact of the economic and financial crises on the
lives of the people of Indonesia. In 1998, as the closure of the KREI loan was imminent, the funding of one of the
assistance studies, Strengthening Provincial Environmental Management and Planning Capability (SPEMPC), was
transferred to Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project after procurement.
3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1   The components included:
(a) Road network improvement comprising: (i) road works and supervision for maintenance of an increasing.
share of the maintainable part (12,500 km) of the Kabupaten road network as well as rehabilitation of selected
- 2 -



roads (3000 km) over three fiscal years starting 1993/94; (ii) upgrading and equipping of workshops and
laboratories; and (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts and supplies;
(b) Technology adaptation and dissemination, comprising (i) development and implementation of adapted
technologies, processes, and products which have potential to improve the quality, efficiency and cost of
Kabupaten road works; and (ii) improvement in both quality and efficiency of the labor-based methods
employed in Indonesia, through continuation of the ILO Pilot Scheme initiated under Rural Roads II Project;
(c) Training, including development and implementation of priority parts of a nationwide training program
for Kabupaten road staff; and
(d) Technical assistance and studies for strengthening systems and procedures for planning, environmental
analysis and management at provincial and local levels, quality and technology of implementation, and project
implementation and monitoring.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1   The amendment on June 11, 1998 to implement a LIWP allowed the use of project savings for: (i)
rehabilitation of about 1,200 km of roads; and (ii) 4,500 km of routine maintenance using labor-intensive methods
in the 73 Kabupatens of the LIWP. Up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$19,000,000 for routine
maintenance could be carried out by force account (Schedule 4 Part C of the Loan Agreement). The LIWP was
identified in part to apply the results of the labor-intensive methods developed under the ILO-supported component
to alleviate some impacts of the financial crisis. The purpose was to support works with a high labor content as a
means for providing employment opportunities in areas that were hit hard by the crises. It was also proposed that
the program be focussed in Kabupatens with high poverty incidence. However, the Kabupatens selected covered a
wider range through Java and Sumatra based as much on the need for employment as on poverty. As a result, the
wage levels in the selected Kabupatens ranged above the level of $3/day cited by the ILO study as the ceiling for
labor-intensive works to be efficient. The periodic maintenance program was designed to include the regravelling
of unpaved roads, which has higher labor content than work with asphalt materials on paved roads. The guidelines
for selection of the LIWP were: (a) a minimum labor content of 70% for routine maintenance; and 30% for
periodic maintenance; and (b) a program comprising at least 3 km under routine maintenance for every 1 km of
gravel road betterment.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.5.1   The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review did not exist at the time of this project preparation. The ICR
assesses the quality at entry as satisfactory. The project objective was consistent with the overall Bank goal of
poverty reduction, which supported institutional capacity building, efficient use of resources in the sub-sector, and
sustainable development. The project also addressed two of the Bank's important safeguard policies -
environmental assessment (OD 4.01) and indigenous peoples (OD4.20) satisfactorily.
3.5.2  The Project objective was consistent with the GOI's 6th five-year development plan, REPELITA VI
(FY1994/95 to 1998/99), which gave special attention to regional development. The quality of the project design,
focussed on inputs and processes, as the main risks were related to implementation of the planning procedures and
the funding of the maintenance. Starting October 1998, a retrofitting exercise was carried out to identify
performance indicators of project impact, based on data already available in project files. The new performance
indicators were tied to final project outcome/impact.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1   Overall Assessment. The project outcomes and achievement of objectives are assessed as satisfactory.
The project has substantially achieved both development objectives within budget, including an extension of one
year to 1996/97 for road maintenance and one year 1998/99 for LIWP funded from project savings. The LIWP had.
positive impacts through employment generation and support to local contractors, thereby, mitigating the impact of
- 3 -



the financial and economic crises on the working poor. Substantial direct economic benefits have been achieved
from the investment in civil works, through reduction of travel time and other traffic costs. The expected economic
benefit of the investment in road betterment in terms of net present value is positive (Annex 3), despite the
temporary reduction in traffic growth during and after the financial crisis.
4.1.2   On the institutional front, the incentive-based approach to planning and programming was successful in
addressing environmental aspects and reaching the increasing targets for maintenance, and partially successful in
raising quality and disseminating technology. The Kabupaten road planning and programming guidelines (SK77)
were mandated for use nationwide and in 1997/98 became a prerequisite for eligibility of betterment works,
regardless of the source of financing. They were applied successfully during the Project for preparation of the
annual programs; however, it became evident that about 10-20% of Kabupatens did not perform well, eligibility
provisions were not fully applied, and that continued success would depend on technical support being available
locally. Environmental procedures were improved through the application of screening to subprojects before
technical design, through supporting development of national guidelines on environmental management, and
establishing social assessment methods for the impact on communities including isolated people.  The
environmental screening procedure and generic environmental studies developed under the project provided
significant savings in time and money and were highly effective, but need to be mandated to ensure application.
The guidance resources are being incorporated in national training materials for on-going use. Regarding
resources, the Project developed a basis for an economically efficient allocation of central funds but succeeded only
partially in improving the timeliness of release of funds which passes through two government levels. Although
staff skills and retention are generally poor due to weak staff incentives, there was substantial opportunity for
on-the-job training and exposure to quality works. The variable quality of both implementation and supervision
showed that the private sector was only partially better than the public sector and that both incentives and
enforcement need to be strengthened. The Kabupaten Roads Master Training Program (KRMTP) developed good
materials that have substantial long-term value and were incorporated with the National and Provincial plan
(NPRMTP) for efficient delivery. Thus, the Project is assessed as likely to achieve substantial development results,
provided adequate funds for road maintenance are made available during the economic recovery, and appropriate
incentives and technical support are available under the decentralized structure on the institutional front.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A.    Physical Component
4.2.1   Overall Assessment. The overall achievement of outputs of the physical components is assessed as highly
satisfactory, as evidenced in Table I below.
4.2.2   Road Improvement. (Table 1). The achievement of improved access to economic centers in terms of
physical targets was highly satisfactory, to the very limited extent included under the Project. Some 3,091 km of
roads in poor/bad condition received rehabilitation or betterment to paved standard, exceeding the appraisal target
of 3,000 km (which was just 10% of the total length and 17% of the roads in unstable condition). Under LIWP
(Table 1, Annex 1: Table l.b) 1,453 km of unpaved roads were rehabilitated to gravel standard in the 77 LIWP
Kabupatens. Overall, the total length of rehabilitated/improved Kabupaten roads funded under the project
exceeded the targets by some 344 km or 8%. The quality of construction was improved through the supervision by
local consultants but remained problematic in some cases.
-4 -



Table 1: Road Network Improvement and Maintenance Targets & Achievement
Year                         Maintenance                       Rehabilitation/Betterment
SAR Target            Achievement                        SAR    Achievement
Target
% of    Equivalent  Total (km)   Periodic   Routine   (km)        (km)
Maintainable  to km                  (km)      (km)
Network
(14,223 km)
1993/1994          50       7,11       8,001      1,529     6,472                  1,033
1994/1995          70      9,956      11,830      2,399     9,431                  1,060
1995/1996          90     12_.500     13063       2 612    10.451                   998
Sub-total                 29,567      32,894      6,540    26,354      3,000       3,091
1996/1997          90        n.a.        n.a.      n.a.       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.
LIWP                       4,500       3,742                3,742                  1,453
Sources: GOI (Hoff& Overgaard, performance Indicators for KREI, November 1999)
4.2.3   Maintenance (Table 1). With respect to routine and periodic maintenance, the targets for the first, second
and third-year were 50%, 70% and 90% of maintainable road network (12,500 km), respectively. As evidenced
from Table 1, these targets were exceeded. Also the "maintenance first policy" of the Kabupaten Road program
was substantially enforced during implementation. Under LIWP an additional 3,742 km of the Kabupaten roads
received maintenance, though this was less than planned length due to the selection of a larger rehabilitation
program.
4.2.4   Road Network Improvement (Tables 1&2, and Annex 1: Table 1).  As a result of the physical
achievements noted above, the overall condition of the road network has improved in absolute terms. The length
in 'good' and 'fair' condition increased from 278 km per Kabupaten in 1990 to 323 km per Kabupaten by 1999, an
increase of 16% or 1.6% per annum. On the other hand, the average road length per Kabupaten rose from 701 km
in 1990 to 1,134 km per Kabupaten in 1999, representing an increase of 62% or annual average rate of growth of
5.5%, indicating that extensions to the Kabupaten road network in relative terms far out-paced the progress made
under the project towards overall road network improvement. This indicates that the available funding was
inadequate for managing the growing network so as to improve poor and bad condition roads at the same time as
maintaining the stable network.
4.2.5   Labor Intensive Works Program. (Table 2). Overall, the performance of LIWP in terms of the physical
targets was satisfactory. The program mix between rehabilitation and maintenance was biased slightly more (20%)
towards rehabilitation than intended. In terms of the labor content, estimated as percentage of labor cost in the
total contract price, the achievement was below expectation particularly given the significant depreciation of the
Rupiah which tended to reduce the relative share of the domestic input costs to the total construction cost. The
average labor share for routine maintenance was 37%, lower than anticipated under previous macroeconomic
conditions with relatively higher capital-labor ratio. Some 23 Kabupatens out of 56 participating had registered an
average labor cost share of over 40%. For rehabilitation projects, the labor content was 22% and only 4
Kabupatens attained an average labor content of over 40% of the total contract price. In total, the KREI LIWP
provided 2.5 million person-days labor input during six months of 1998/99.
-5 -



Table 2: Labor Intensive Program Achievement
Province (No. of                        Contracts (Rp. Million)
Kabupatens                 Routine Maintenance         Betterment/rehabilitation
participating in road      Cost Labor share    Km        Cost  Labor         Km
maintenance)                        %                          share %
Jambi (5)                 2,112       30.2      446     5,387      22.9       95
Sumatra Selatan (8)       5,717        34.5     594     4,963       14.6     104
Bengkulu (1)                505       67.3       76     2,482      21.7      -55
Lampung (6)               2,161        67.9     374     6,050       17.9     153
Yogyakarta (4)            1,414        38.2     207     3,581       11.6      83
Jawa Timur (18)          10,741       26.0   1,504    24,610       24.0      497
Nusa Tenggara Barat (5)   1,132        53.4     210     5,617       18.3     115
Nusa Tenggara (10)        2,477        33.3      51    10,493       29.7     351
Total                  26,258.6       36.6   3,742    63,183       22.2   1,453
4.2.6   Under LIWP, the cost of routine maintenance averaged about Rp 6.2 million per km while rehabilitation
averaged Rp 43.0 million per km. This average unit cost of routine maintenance is almost constant in US Dollar
terms but is about 33% higher in real terms (with inflation of about 120%) as before the crises (Rp. 2 million/km)
- under LIWP, this was due to the higher content of expensive tasks such as masonry work and pavement patching
which tended to be omitted under previous works due to under-allocation. The average cost of gravel road
rehabilitation was almost constant in real terms but decreased by about 40% in US Dollar terms. Such cost
reductions resulted from some relaxation in construction standards and materials but these are not recommended
for general Kabupaten use. Under LIWP, kabupatens chose a minimum cover of gravel which usually consisted of
local river gravel (sirtu) that remained the same nominal cost between 1997 and 1999. The non-LIWP works
generally involved use of two layers of crushed aggregate basecourse which is more expensive than sirtu but has
superior performance.
B.    Institutional Component
4.2.7   Overall Assessment. (Annex I :Table 1). The institutional components were directed towards improving
the use of resources in the preservation program and improving the quality and performance of the road assets.
Achievements of outputs of the institutional component are assessed as substantial as measured by performance
indicators noted below.
Enhance Capability of GOI agencies
4.2.8   Kabupaten Roads Program Planning. The outputs were measured in terms of a retrofitted composite
performance index. The final version of the index consisted of five factors - continuity of planning staff, analytical
capability, utilization of data in program, planning study coverage, and use of the planning area concept. The
performance measures of GOI agencies showed that no significant progress has been made on aggregate - from a
base of 57.9% points (1994) to 45.2% (1997) and 45.2% (1999). However, significant variation exists between
Kabupatens, ranging from 10.4% in two Kabupatens in South Sulawesi to 89.6% in Kabupaten Poso in Central
Sulawesi. The planning, engineering, maintenance and environmental guidelines for Kabupaten roads, developed
under the program to improve the technical environment for planning and implementation, are now being
extended to cover roads funded from other sources besides IBRD. The frequent staff rotation and low salaries of the
civil servants have impeded the expected improvement in the capability of the staff and therefore the quality of the
road network. Nevertheless, as objectively reflected by the increase in the composite performance indicator noted
above, the institutional component had made positive impact on the quality of the road network as a whole.
4.2.9  Procedures for Planning. Resource Allocation and Monitoring. The survey, planning and programming
procedures promulgated by SK77/90 were modified at the mid-term review of the Project in an effort to improve
- 6 -



the agency performance. Their effectiveness became limited where the surveys were not performed (on one-third
of the sustained network per year) because the inventory of sustained roads (P1 list) was not kept current. In
response to the need for a central resource allocation tool, the KREEM (Kabupaten Economic Evaluation Model)
was developed, which derives economic benefits from road user cost savings. The application of this to the
Kabupaten road network nationwide demonstrated wide discrepancies between the efficient allocation based on
road needs and the actual allocations based on the GOI regional development, road asset, demographic and equity
criteria - not only between regions but also between adjacent Kabupatens. This prompted active discussion of the
allocation criteria and the current (1999-2000) development of a Strategic Expenditure Planning module (SEPM)
for all primary and secondary road infrastructure is partly in response to that, including assessment of indirect
benefits. The survey procedures for all networks now need to be conformed with long-term monitoring functions
so that the whole process becomes appropriate and sustainable.
4.2.10 Implementation Management. Progress in implementation management is measured as percentage of
works completed by 31 December of the budget year (then April-March), i.e., mid-way through the available
construction period. Overall, the average construction and maintenance speed showed no consistent improvement
as it reflected significant improvement for some Kabupatens, no improvements for others, and even reversal for
still others. Such uneven outcomes are attributed primarily to the persistent delays in release of budget (especially
at local level), late contract administration, and lack of urgency on the need for much better efficiency in the face
of the shrinking budget situation. The indicator may also serve as a proxy for measuring progress made in
improving the quality of the construction, as it measures the construction maintenance works carried out prior to
the peak of the rainy season.
Training System.
4.2.11 Some 10,644 GOI staff concerned with the road program participated in training programs offered under
the Project. Also, significant staff involved in the Kabupaten roads sub-sector at all levels had opportunities to get
on-the-job training from field implementation consultants and the central technical consultants on institutional
development. Advance training was provided on the Standard Planning Guidelines and Procedures (SK77/90)
through formal courses starting in 1991, and through field planning advisors beginning in 1995 by way of
on-the-job training of Kabupaten planning teams. Training was provided under the Kabupaten Roads Master
Training Plan (KRMTP) covering construction, maintenance, management and equipment. The KRMTP
addressed training for stakeholders, trainers, project management and supervision staff. In addition, seminars and
courses were provided under the Rural Roads Maintenance System (RRMS) by Provincial, Kabupaten Regional
Development Agency (Bangda) in South Sulawesi, DPUK (centrally run) Provincial Training Program
implemented nationwide, and ILO Training Program in West Java. On-the-job training was available for both
central and Kabupaten government staff. Opportunities also existed for government staff to gain experience
through participation in technical studies and supervisions. However, such opportunities were not fully utilized,
partly due to the heavy executive and administrative burden placed on many government staff.
Improved Technical Environment for Kabupaten Roads Program
4.2.12. Quality of Construction and Maintenance. Throughout project implementation, quality of construction
and maintenance was a persistent problem, as indicated by a technical audit of road quality undertaken in 1997.
Deficiencies were found in thickness, quality of pavement materials, and also in bitumen content. Efforts were
made to improve the quality of supervision and reporting, but progress was slow in achieving quality in accordance
with designs and specifications. Some of the improvements in pavement life under the project can be attributed to
the project requirements for more mechanized construction through the use of class A contractors and for not
permitting the use of force account construction except for routine maintenance or the lower-standard LIW
betterment works. It is known that Class A contractors who normally deploy heavy equipment, invariably
produced better quality of works in certain activities than class C contractors which do not deploy heavy
equipment. Post-construction monitoring (PCM) was used to compare the long-term trends in road condition and
to develop an indicator of performance. Due to inadequate surveys the outcome was not conclusive, and it is
recommended that the survey be carried out by provincial staff following the standard guidelines over another 1-3
impact years to reach a definitive conclusion.  Long-term monitoring should be supported as a central
- 7 -



responsibility to the sector, Overall, there is no doubt that poor quality reduces pavement life and therefore
requires more frequent maintenance and higher budget allocations.
4.2.13  Technology Adaptation.   The need for new  technologies to improve the performance and
cost-effectiveness of pavements for Kabupaten roads had been identified during the 1980's and KR3. The most
appropriate alternative technologies identified for use included cold-applied bitumen emulsions, natural asphalt
(fine-grained asbuton), softer-grade bitumens, graded aggregate pavement materials, soil stabilization, and
cold-laid asphalt mixes.  Despite technical specifications being available, a number of contractual and
organizational difficulties and weak support from DGH resulted in little field demonstration being achieved. Thus,
this activity fell far short of its objective which could have reduced the costs or improved performance. The major
changes in technology now are a greater use of hot-mixed asphalt and selected use of proprietary cold-laid asbuton,
both of which give smoother ride and better performance but are more expensive than traditional penetration
macadam. Future assistance should focus on achieving effective demonstration and encouraging eontractors to
become proficient in the other technologies. The demonstration of labor intensive methods (LIM) was generally
successful. Under a contract with ILO, a pilot was conducted in West Kalimantan (Sambas and Pontianak) and
West Java (Subang and Bandung) during 1993-96. Improvements in the productivity of LIM were tangible,
though it was unclear how much resulted from the inproved methods or intense supervision, or both. It was
concluded that LIM is appropriate for construction of gravel roads and soil stabilization but not of penetration
macadam for paved roads, and that the lengthman system is most appropriate for routine maintenance. In general,
LIM was only feasible where labor was available for less than $3 per day. DGH gave only restrained support LIM,
requiring more emphasis on quality and supervision, and reference to technical standards.
Equipment
4.2.14 Workshops and Laboratories. Investments in workshop and laboratory equipment were effectively made
centrally by DGH and were transferred to the Kabupatens as per the loan covenant for KR3. The process of
transfer of ownership of road equipment from central Bina Marga to the provinces and finally to the Kabupatens
was completed in 1998, following a Joint Decree issued by the Ministry of Public Works and the Ministry of Home
Affairs, authorized by the Ministry of Finance. The project provided mechanical engineering services in the field
to train and mitigate the shortage of experienced mechanics and operators in the Kabupaten. In addition to the
transfer of ownership and technical assistance, initiatives were taken to assure the long-term sustainability of the
equipment which was managed by DGRD funded from the Fifth Kabupaten Roads Project.
Safeguard Policies
4.2.15 Environmental Aspects. The Project developed and applied sound and practical methods for screening of
environmental impacts in the implementation of Kabupaten roads works. All roads for betterment or construction
in KR areas have been first-level screened and the road inventory database updated accordingly. Road subprojects
selected for IBRD assistance were second-level screened with field yisits where necessary. The planning and
engineering guidelines provide systematic guidance for environmental screening and protection respectively.
Previous guidelines were further developed under the project and re-issued with recommendation for future
updating once every five years. The TA for Institutional Strengthening of Environmental Management (ISEM) was
a major effort to translate all the environmental regulations and practical experience into guidance on good
practice for all the road sector, from national roads to sub-district roads. The ISEM outputs, adapted as the
regulations changed, are considered extremely good. Two pilot training courses were conducted, and an extension
for the training courses to be conducted countrywide is to be funded under the Second Highway Investment Project.
4.2.16  Indigenous and Isolated People. The MEIIP study on social impacts of the road development on isolated
and semi-isolated communities has produced excellent methodology for assessing social impacts, using
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) methods and producing case study materials on Irian Jaya. The earlier study
in the west on Sumatra and Kalimantan had concluded that impacts were significant for the initial penetration of a
road or accessible track into an isolated area, but thereafter improvements appeared to have comparatively
negligible impact. The methods were improved for the Irian Jaya study, and the material developed has been used.,
to enhance the social assessment part of the ISEM training. Key observations included: (i) a social (PRA) survey
- 8 -



should be included with the environmental and technical surveys at least a year before implementation of any
project likely to have significant social impacts; (ii) time, consultation and cooperation are needed to effect
socialization and adaptation; (iii) perceptions of the nature of benefits differs widely and local aspirations and
knowledge can add substantially to the appropriateness and sustainability of the outcome.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1   Overall, the economic benefit of the project is positive (Annex 3). The weighted aggregate net present
value, at 10% discount rate, was estimated to be Rp 353.3 million per km and the NPV/C is about 3.5. The
economic rate of return for the civil works is estimated to average 30%. The result was based on a sample of 27
rehabilitated roads using the Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation Model (KREEM) (the sample is from the
KR5 project but was considered representative also of KREI). On a link by link basis, the evaluation results
indicate that 16 road links have positive net present values, while the remaining 11 have negative NPV/hn.
However, that re-estimation was based on a projected annual growth rate of traffic of only 4% over 20 years
compared with 7.5% at appraisal in order to reflect the impact of the economic crisis. This does not fairly reflect
the medium- and long-term growth prospects in the economy which are good, and thus it is estimated that all NPV
would be positive under realistic growth scenarios. Sensitivity analysis would have required extensive revision of
the KREEM model. No systematic annual traffic data has been collected since 1996. The re-estimated NPV/km
figures include the benefits due to motorcycle traffic on the road links.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1   As documented above, the project has positively impacted institutional development. Through the
carefully monitored supervision of civil works by field consultants for implementation, project related staff and
contractors had the opportunity to experience instances of quality works. Formal and on-the job training have been
provided under the Project although not adequately. The labor intensive works helped sustain the existing
infrastructure during the economic crisis while supporting poverty alleviation. More Kabupaten staff have been
exposed to planning and engineering guidelines and procedures than before. Private sector participation in the
provision of infrastructure services has started taking root in rural Indonesia. Equipment workshops and
maintenance were improved under KREI and the operational aspects were further addressed through KEWMI
under KR5. High quality guidelines related to safeguard policies in environmental (ISEM) and indigenous people
(MEIIP) have been developed. If appropriate dissemination and endorsement is given by the new department, these
should have significant positive impact in future Kabupaten road development and in Bank-fmanced projects.
However the impact was less in two areas. Institutional and technical coordination and support to DPUK staff was
improved only marginally and where it was most receptive. The technical support for planning, surveys,
environmental screening, programming and design, which was to be provided through the provincial-level PBPJK,
ranged from highly effective to barely effective, but the units were not formalized in the provincial organization.
This model for support therefore needs review and a better alternative. Second, the adoption of new technologies
required some shift in thinking and innovation which would have been possible with stronger initiative. While
there is support from changes being introduced at national/provincial road level, some technologies are more
suitable for low volume roads.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1   The Financial and Economic Crises. In the last two years of project implementation, the financial and
economic crisis of East Asia was the major factor affecting project implementation. This has led to agreements
between the Bank and GOI to utilize the project savings for financing LIWP to assure sustainability of the roads
and generate employment as well as preserve small- and medium-contractors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1   Timing of release of funds. The government was not generally able to submit annual work programs to the
-9-



Bank for approval by December 31 of the preceding Fiscal Year. Often, the annual program and budget were not
finalized until June/July, when the budgets were fully approved by kabupaten authorities. This made the early start
of civil works impossible. Attempts to establish multi-year contracts or to relax the cutoff of funds at the end of the
fiscal year, by say 3 months were sought but no systemic progress was achieved in these areas, either. The lack of
progress here has adversely affected the quality of the civil works as most works are done during the season.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1   Poor Management of Equipment. Over the years each Kabupaten had constructed its own workshops and
also procured the necessary heavy equipment for road works, usually through foreign aid and loans. KEWMI was
launched under KR5, but the goal of establishing viable EMS and especially plant hire units within unit swadana
has not progressed as anticipated. The principal factor was that the necessary support from most Kabupatens
chiefs had not been forthcoming. Meanwhile, poor management of the equipment and workshops contributed to
delays in implementation of the civil works program and to non-sustainable use of existing equipment.
5.3.2   Mobility of Trained Staff. Transfer of key staff within the government has deprived some Kabupatens of
their critical personnel. This has adversely affected the Kabupatens which lost such trained and experienced staff.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1   Cost and Financing. The total actual/estimated/project cost is US$287 million (approximately the total
baseline cost estimate) compared to appraisal estimate of US$331.3 million. The Bank contribution was to be $151
million but only 96% (US$148.97 million) was disbursed. On the other hand the government contributed
US$138.88 million or 79% of the appraisal estimate of US$176.2 million. Significant variations between appraisal
and actual cost were mainly due to lower disbursements in road improvement and equipment categories.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating.
6.1.1   The sustainability of the project must be viewed from two aspects, first in the context of the stable political
and economic environment that prevailed during almost the whole period of implementation, and second in the
context of the future in the vastly different environment following the financial crisis, democratization and pending
decentralization. First, in the stable environment that prevailed during the Project, the sustainability of the
outcomes and outputs is assessed, on balance, as likely. The maintenance strategy was clearly established in the
central process of resource allocation and the ownership of it by the Kabupatens was generally high, though
uneven. Likewise, the planning procedures, monitoring of assets and environmental screening of investments were
applied effectively during the Project, but the performance of upto half of Kabupatens had begun to decline over the
latter years of the Project when these were not directly facilitated and enforced. The provincial-level units intended
to provide longer-term support on these matters were not formalized. Within a national framework designed to
support the 1997 plans for decentralization, an appropriate monitoring system was being introduced by DGH
which was intended to assure sustainability of the strategy and procedures -- however, this did not include the
incentives which had proved effective. Under that regime, this was certainly likely to achieve some sustainability,
at least in a majority of Kabupatens and significantly superior compared with the period prior to the 5-Project
Program, but it would have required overt commitment by the agencies involved. In regard to technology and
quality of implementation, the level of achievement was modest and was unlikely to change. The labor-intensive
approach piloted under the Project proved a timely basis for the LIWP when the crisis struck, but had not been
embraced by DGH earlier and was implemented only in a very modified form. The overall level of resource
allocation had not been raised commensurately to make substantial progress in improving the condition of the
network as it was steadily expanded through reclassification of lower roads, but the tools for balancing the sector
needs with regional development needs had been accepted by the end of the Project and now formn the basis for
on-going dialogue which is helping shape the next 5-year plan. Ultimately, a more self-sustaining mechanism for
funding the sector needs to be established to reduce the reliance on central transfers.
6.1.2   The sustainability in the future under the still evolving decentralization and restructuring of the economy
must be assessed as uncertain since much is unknown. The division and empowerment of Kabupatens in smaller
units (from 243 to about 450) and the removal of constraints on the block grant transfers may, in the short-term,
- 1 0 -



affect staff performance, further reduce efficiencies of scale, and imply greater local responsibilities for planning,
resource use and technology. The severe real reductions of 20-40% in the national budget since the crisis are likely
to prevail for a few years and, in this scenario, the road assets are likely to deteriorate even when maintenance is
given priority. Gol has already demonstrated priority for maintenance in the FY2000 budget. In the medium-term,
however, the procedures and systems established under the Project and Program will form a basis which can be
adapted and applied to whatever new structure evolves. Under this external shock, therefore, the sustainability can
only be partial because many parts will need to be adapted to the new context. This second context is thus not an
appropriate basis for assessing sustainability. The Project rating is therefore based on the medium- to long-term
context, and assessed as "Likely"
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  In order to consolidate the institutional achievements the program was extended to a fourth year. Later,
the loan period was extended by one year to generate employment and sustain the small-and-medium-sized
contractors through the labor-intensive program, which also served to enhance sustainability of the road network
and spread use of a moderately labor-intensive approach (See Table 2). The integration of road infrastructure and
regional development within one department under the new government is supportive of the approach and
procedures developed by the Project. It is expected that this integrated focus will also be reflected in the technical
and administrative arrangements to be made for the Kabupatens under decentralization. Attention to the technical
support (equivalent to the PBPJK unit) and incentives for keeping survey information current and following the
planning and programming procedures will be crucial to making this transition effective.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1   The identification, preparation and appraisal phases of the project are assessed as satisfactory. The
Project was modeled after the Third Kabupaten Roads Project. Most of the methodological issues were resolved
during that period. The main differences between KR3 and the present Kabupaten project were geographic
coverage and the different, but country-wide, institutional issues they addressed. The Bank's assistance focused on
assuring that conditions for successful implementation were incorporated in the project design. Like the preceding
Kabupaten and rural roads projects, the design of KREI was focused on the main risks facing project
implementation: implementation of planning procedures and the funding of maintenance. To reduce these risks,
agreement was reached with Bappenas, GOI's National Development Planning Agency, to commit itself to play a
stronger coordinating role in project planning and implementation and to use the Inpres funds for maintenance.
Also, adequacy of maintenance for each Kabupaten road network was made a condition of participation in the
project's subsequent annual rehabilitation/improvement programs. The risks due to poor quality works were to be
reduced by extensive technical assistance for implementation support.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1   The project was declared effective on July 7, 1993. During supervision, detailed performance of
Kabupatens related to project activities were reviewed by Bank staff and appropriate feedback was provided to the
government and the implementing agencies. Bank missions were persistent in highlighting the impact of delays in
preparation of the annual work program and timely release of the program and the budget on the quality of the
works. In addition to regular Bank staff, the supervision teams included specialists in the areas of particular
concern such as equipment management and environmental specialists. During the mid-term review in 1995, a
thorough review of the Kabupaten performance was undertaken, focusing on the quality of the civil works and
establishing sustainable institutional and technical environment. Bank supervision provided the government and
the implementing agencies timely feedback on the enforcement of planning guidelines. During the financial crisis,
supervision staff took initiative in identifying the impact of the crisis on sustainability of Kabupaten road network
and in devising appropriate transitional arrangements in terms of LIWP. Bank supervision was highly satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory.
- 11 -



Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1   GOI performance in preparation was satisfactory as evidenced by the documentation prepared for the
project. Many organizations played their respective roles in the preparation phase. At Kabupaten level, the DPUK
together with representatives of Bangda and Bappeda worked with the Bupati. The government representatives
were supported in their activities by consultants at the center. Project preparation consisted of a large variety of
activities -- planning studies i.e. economic feasibility, inventory of road conditions surveys and engineering designs
for roads both rehabilitation and new construction works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1   Overall, Government implementation performance was satisfactory. A key matter related to the quality of
the civil work was the timely release of program and budget to Kabupatens so that substantial works could be done
before the rainy season. On this matter the government has not been able to make substantial progress. On the
other hand in terms of enhancing the sustainability of the Kabupaten program the government was responsive to
the project supervision and project implementation unit action plans aimed at tackling the range of strategic issues
which had hindered efficient program management; DGH had initiated the sustainability action plan for smooth
taking over of the core team consultants critical tasks.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1   Several implementing agencies were involved. The performance of the Kabupatens was key to successful
project outcome. Most have performed well. Some will need further coaching.
7. 7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1   Overall Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory. The adoption of LIWP to mitigate the impact of
the financial crisis on maintenance budget was a positive stance.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1    A number of relevant lessons can be drawn from this review:
8.2    Summary. The Kabupaten Roads Program (including KREI) was designed to strengthen the planning
and implementation of road management under the complex devolved institutional structure which then existed,
where sectoral and regional development interests were separated. Some of the lessons have been applied in the
new program of region-based road projects (Sumatra Region Road Project, Ln. 4307-IND), e.g. in regard to
coordinating the planning process between jurisdictions, networks and sectors, and to improving technical
standards. For the fully decentralized structure currently being legislated, the experience of the Project suggests
that Kabupatens are likely to be capable of sustaining sound road management only if the supporting environment
includes four key elements:
(a)    An adequate technical support system, including on-going practical training, technical advisory services
(which could be province-based and delivered by government or a professional group), and further improved asset
management tools;
(b)    Perfornance monitoring, which provides an independent tracking of asset condition, quality of
implementation, and the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of resources;
(c)    An incentive-based resource allocation system, which would link any central or provincial monetary
transfers to performance and needs; and
(d)    A sustainable financing mechanism providing adequate and timely funds for preservation of the road
assets (in the future, preferably derived on a fee-for-service basis from road users).
Since these key elements extend beyond a regional context, they will need to be developed for use nationwide.
- 12 -



8.3    Strengthening Local Capacity. Technical assistance alone has limited impact on local capacity building
unless it is accompanied by proper civil service reforms. Without adequate incentives, losses were seen in
productivity and output of officials, field consultants and contractors. A workable structure for providing technical
support to local governments needs to be found and implemented - the Project's efforts to provide provincial-level
support were not fully realized or accepted but deserve further attention, and other models such as professional
centers which are evident in other countries should be considered. Further, more attention is needed to achieving
the practical training prepared under the project and future arrangements should allocate adequate resources for
hands-on-training and fully utilize the potential of the master training program. The role of monitoring and the
linkage between diligent performance and access to central allocations of resources are crucial to establishing the
importance of strong local capacity.
8.4    Road Management Strategy. The strategy of giving priority to maintenance of the maintainable assets
was effective in itself and demonstrated that those roads could be held in stable condition. However, this excluded
the two-thirds of the network that was in poor/bad condition which fuels the strong demand for improvement. This
loss of function does hinder access, and a viable strategy needs to be found to improve the network as a whole. The
need for establishing improved and sustainable maintenance funding has become the top sector priority in
Indonesia. Moreover, a more efficient and equitable basis for allocation of funding to the Kabupaten roads needs
to be formally established, using the allocation tools developed (e.g., KREEM and SEPM) and sharing central and
local responsibility. Finally, the need for a timely allocation and disbursement of funds for the planned works
warrants special attention.
8.5    Construction Quality and Technology. Much of the slow improvement in condition of the network and
inadequacy of funding is related to prevailing poor construction quality and inadequate use of appropriate
technology. The prevailing short life of Kabupaten pavements is not sustainable - improvements of 50-100% to the
life of works are feasible and would free the available funds for improving other parts of the network. Several
factors are key to this objective: (i) the enabling environment for improving the performance and equipment of
local contractors, including access to credit and good equipment; (ii) multi-year contracts for pavement works
which encourage larger contractors such as Class A or B to make competitive bids and lower the prices of work;
(iii) timely release of funding to allow works to be done in the dry season and at proper pace; (iv) strengthened
supervision and insistence on achieving specified quality; and (v) incentives and guidelines to use appropriate
alternative construction technologies, such as cold-applied emulsified asphalt, slurry seal, soil stabilization, and
wider use of gravel pavements to provide all-weather access at low cost.
8.6    Planning, Programming and Monitoring procedures. While the SK77 procedures have proved to be a
sound and effective basis for the focus on maintenance with central oversight and local implementation, there is a
need to adapt these to two new functions - first independent application as a simple management and decision tool
by Kabupatens under the new decentralization, and second as a basis for monitoring the performance of the
Kabupaten road network assets as a whole.
8.7    Planning and the Environment.  Since the upgrading of tracks and construction of new roads at
Kabupaten level is the main point of entry of assets into the primary road network, the application of sound
environmental and technical screening is of paramount importance but is often evaded or neglected. The simple
assessment procedures developed by the Project should be applied to the selection of location, alignment and
geometric standard - which affect environmental and social impacts and future maintenance costs - and should be
a prerequisite before funding of a subproject is authorized. This applies particularly to roads in sensitive areas and
remote areas which impact on isolated people and poverty.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The borrower's assessment of the Project is given in full in Annex 8. Their conclusions were as follows:
"The main lessons of KREI are that:
*   Strengthening local capacity cannot be achieved through technical assistance alone, without proper incentives;
- 13 -



to the civil service. The costs of inadequate incentives were seen in loss of productivity and output of officials,
field consultants and contractors.
*   Construction quality has a great effect on works lifetime, therefore procurement of good contractors and good
supervision are major determinants. The incentive issue directly affects these issues.
* A privatisation agenda and faith in large contractors impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the planning
and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads.
* The Government's objective of strengthening decentralisation was not clear in the Project design.
* Effective decentralisation requires a good monitoring system. Local Parliaments and other local stakeholders
need to be trained in this task. Central agencies or their consultants cannot assist without adequate staffing and
contact with the implementing agencies.
*   There was little accountability for poor quality work, as the implementing agencies were not accountable to the
Executing Agency. Field Consultants did not have the authority to enforce contracts.
*   Improving the Kabupaten road network is not achievable while-the local authorities give priority to expanding
their networks. In future, if a central agency is responsible for a Project funded by a foreign loan, it should be
made responsible and accountable for the specific road links which are targeted.
*   Too few real resources were devoted to practical training in a Project with the supposed objective of enhancing
capacity". Direct training delivery only accounted for 0.1% of Project Costs, not counting the CTC's planning
training effort which succeeded in training as well as in institutionalising SK77.
*   In future, training should be implemented by the main technical line agency. If counterpart teams such as
BMHRD are trained, they should be given some responsibility, and not all of the work allocated to consultants.
*   Initiatives to encourage equipment ownership by contractors were not successful, as the banking sector does
not provide lending. Efforts to make more efficient use of Kabupaten-owned equipment should have been
applied, however force-account was discouraged by Loan covenants.
*   A DGH force account unit should be set up to demonstrate the methods and benefits of improved technologies
to Kabupaten works agencies. This could be based in Regional Depots for efficiency.
*   Future Bank assistance should continue to concentrate on maintenance as it is highly economic but is a
difficult concept, while Kabupaten should finance their own betterment and network extension."
Following review of the draft ICR, the Borrower responded agreeing with the conclusions but questioning the
initial rating of sustainability of the Project as "Unlikely", citing its continued commitment to the maintenance
policy as demonstrated through the priority given to maintenance in current budget allocations despite the sharp
reductions in overall spending. Based on a review of the sustainability and its dependence on the changing
democracy and decentralization enviroments in Indonesia, the Bank changed the rating to "Likely" in the medium-
to long-term, based on an assessment that the Project outputs were likely to be the foundation of future adaptations
for the sector.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
None.
- 14 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
in *tPS
A. Improve Access to main econormic
centers for the rural population of 51
Kabupaten in 7 provinces
Al. Average length of road per Kabupaten           1,170 km                             1,134 km
(2002)                                (1999)
A2. Length of roads in good or fair condition        358 km                               323 km
per Kabupaten                                        (2002)                                (1999)
A3. Length of pavedtall-weather roads per           621 km                               637 km
Kabupaten                                            (2002)                               (1999)
B. Enhance the capability of GOI agencies
that manage the Kabupaten roads
B1. Planning performance (analytical                68%                                  45.2%
capability, use of data, staff continuity, study    (2002)                                (1999)
coverage, use of area concept)
B2. Constructon progress (% of each                 60%                                  48.7%
years work completed by December 31).               (2002)                                (1999)
B3. Maintenance progress (% of each year'           60%                                  46.6%
s work completed by December 31).                   (2002)                                (1999)
Output Indicators:
A. Length of road improved (km):
1. Rehabilitaton/bettemient                        3,000                                  3,091
2. Maintenance                                    29,567                                32,894
3. Labor-intensive rehabilitaton                   1,200                                 1,453
4. Labor-intensive maintenance                     4,500                                 3,742
C. Human resource development:
1. Kabupaten staff trained using                  10,000                                10,644
Competency Based Methods
D. Improve asset performance:
1. Improved technologies used                         7                                      6
2. Construction monitoring sites Surveyed             20                                     18
per year
End of project
-15 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Proect Cost b Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
A. Road Network hnprovement
1. Road Works                                             246.20            217.80              88
2. Workshops, laboratories                                  6.40             11.00             172
3. Equipment                                               19.40             17.00              88
B. Technology adaptation & LIW                              3.80             32.30             850
C. Training                                                 5.10              2.40              47
D. Institutional & Technical Development                    4.90              6.50             131
Total Baseline Cost                                       285.80            287.00
Physical Contingencies                                    27.40
Price Contingencies                                       18.10
Total Project Costs                 331.30            287.00
Total Financing Required                  331.30            287.00
Table 2b: Project Cost by Component (million Rupiah)
Project Cost by Component  Appraisal    Actual    Percentage
Estimate     Latest   of Appraisal
Estimates
A. Civil Works                472,465.00  654,352.50       138
Road Betterment           249,360.00  283,206.80       114
Periodic Maintenance      109,356.00  222,971.70       204
Routine Maintenance       107,724.00  124,072.80       115
Workshop & Labrotory        6,025.00   24,101.10       400
Construction         l
B. Equipment                  47,954.50   55,267.30        115
C. Construction Services       5,505.00    3,015.50        55
D. Construction Services       59879.00   89,566.00        150
Total Baseline Costs  585,803.50  802,201.20        137
Physical Contingencies     58,029.90          -          -
Price Contingencies        47,115.30          -          -
Total Project Costs   690,948.70  802,201.20        116
- 16-



Project Costs by Procurem nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
_ ture   .a          #g;iy              Procurement Method 'B.F.                    Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          245.70         19.10          0.00          264.80
(0.00)        (38.52)        (7.00)        (0.00)         (45.52)
2. Goods                       24.00           3.40           1.80          0.00          29.20
(20.80)        (1.30)        (1.50)         (0.00)        (23.60)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          37.30          0.00          37.30
(0.00)         (0.00)       (33.60)         (0.00)        (33.60)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        24.00         249.10         58.20          0.00          331.30
(20.80)       (39.82)        (42.10)        (0.00)        (102.72)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
E~~~OIY ~~~~Procurenent Method 
.EspendPt Cateory                       prcnMet  ehU                    N.S.F.~   Total Cost
1. Works                        0.00          234.10         0.00           0.00          234.10
(0.00)       (101.84)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (101.84)
2. Goods                        0.00           19.80         0.00           0.00           19.80
(0.00)        (17.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (17.00)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00          32.00          0.00          32.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (31.90)         (0.00)        (31.90)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           1.10          0.00           1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.00)         (0.00)        (1.00)
5. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                        0.00          253.90         33.10          0.00          287.00
(0.00)       (118.84)       (32.90)         (0.00)       (151.74)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 17 -



Project Financing by Component in US$ million equivalent)
Road Network                                                              :00                0.0    0.0
Improvement.
Road Improvement         52.90     90.10               51.00      50.30              96.4   55.8   0.0
Road maintenance         45.00     76.70               48.90      75.30              108.7  98.2   0.0
Workshop and laboratory  1.30      2.10                 0.74       7.90              56.9  376.2   0.0
construction.
Equipment (lab. & Roads)   22.30    3.50                17.00     2.80               76.2   80.0   0.0
Supervision              22.50      1.60               21.90      2.00               97.3  125.0   0.0
Consultant services      9.30       0.70                7.70      0.40               82.8   57.1   0.0
Training and technical   1.80       1.40                0.90      0.20               50.0   14.3   0.0
Assistance
SA-A                                                    0.80                          0.0    0.0    0.0
Total Cost               155.10    176.10              148.94     138.90             96.0   78.9   0.0
-18-



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Analysis
A re-evaluation of the sample sub-projects implemented under IBRD KR5 Program was undertaken. The
sample is considered to be representative of links also constructed under KREI. A sample of sub-projects
constructed in 1993 or 1994 under KR5 were re-evaluated in 1999 using Kabupaten Roads Economic Evaluation
Model (KREEM) based on traffic counts made in 1996. The analysis was based on "with" and "without" project
case. The sample in the current analysis includes the same subprojects used in similar analysis in the 1997.
However, the estimated costs and benefits are expressed in 1999 prices. Exchange rate adopted was Rp. 6,700 per
US dollar which prevailed during the last quarter of 1999 and early 2000. It was considered to be representative
for the near future. The traffic growth rate was reduced from 7.5% per annum (in the SAR) to 4%/r Der annum.
Both four-wheeled and motorcycle traffic are used in the analysis.
The KREEM was adapted to undertake the analysis of specific individual links in November 1999 using
1999 costs and benefits based on government statistics, current vehicle costs and Kabupaten construction costs.
KREEM models individual preset situations in relation to road condition, traffic level and Kabupaten costs as
defined in the 'analysis set'. A 'new analysis set' was defined to present the sampled sub-project links. A separate
'traffic set' was also defined to obtain the required traffic levels associated with each link. Basic information on
vehicle operating costs was derived from vehicle and fuel costs using an HDM type model and this was input into
KREEM. The KREEM program uses this data to determine estimated VOC for normal and generated traffic flows
on any road link having the estimated road roughness for "with" and "without" betterment project. The road
roughness was assumed to have improved from IRI=30 without to IRI=I0 with the project. Road construction costs
were also revised in the November version taking account of the 1999 road construction cost data obtained from
the Kabupatens. Periodic maintenance every six year and annual routine maintenance costs were included in the
analysis. Expected life of the Project was 15 years with no residual value.
Details of the assumptions used in KREEM models are in the project files.
Results of the Analysis
Table 1 summarizes the individual net present value per kilometer for each of the 27 links that were analyzed. The
results show a wide range in NPV/km between links. The VOC of motorcycles is generally about one-tenth of the
average VOC for 4 wheel vehicles. As a result for links with large motor cycle traffic significant amount of
benefits could result. The weighted net present value per km at 10% discount rate for the 27 sample Kabupaten
links was Rp 353.3 million per km in 1999 compared to Rp 23.0 million in 1997, both in terms of 1999 prices.
- 19 -



Table 1: Economic Re-evaluation Results of Sample Subprojects
1997                        1999
Link No.     Length        NPV/km         Length       NPV/km
(km)       (Rp. Million)     (km)      (Rp. MiUion)
20         10.5           496          10.5         2255.5
6         19.1           -40          19.1         -260.1
5          4.0            -7           4.0         -275.7
1         37.5            68          37.5           -3.0
5         74.9           104          74.9          283.5'
3         51.2           281          51.2         1830.6
19          7.8           116           7.8        1584.1
12         14.0           -14          14.0         -99.8
20         13.6          -131          13.6         -218.7
13          6.4           -26           6.4          107.8
29          6.6            -9           6.6          180.0
74          3.1            91           3.1          637.6
32         10.1           -83          10.1          -60.9
30         16.7            62          16.7          194.9
51          4.1           -40           4.1          -61.0
82          4.1           -19           4.1          -65.2
37          9.6           -73           9.6          165.6
98          3.0           151           3.0          385.8
16         14.0           -27          14.0         -18.6
602 (108          3.4           -3            3.4          52.9
51         34.7           -60          34.7          513.6
26          3.6          -107           3.6         -180.3
901          36            -62            36           49.4
8         44.6          -215          44.6          -79.0
12         42.2           -55          42.2          76.4
Total        474.8            23         474.8         353.3
-20 -



Table 2: Comparison of viability between 1997 and l999 Analysis
Range:         No. of cases in    No of cases in
NPV/km Rp.        1997 analysis    1999 analysis
Minlions @10%
-<=100               3                5
-100 to -50           5                5
-SOtoO               9                1
Oto50               0                 1
SOto 100             4                2
100 to 200            3                4
200 to 500            3                2
>500                0                7
Total              27               27
Table 2 classifies the results shown in Table 1 by range of NPV/km values. In the sample of 27 links 16
had positive NPV in 1999 compared to 10 in 1997.
Conclusion
Overall, the economic benefit of the project is positive. The NPV/km including the motorcycle traffic is estimated
at Rp 353.3 million per km in the 1999 evaluation. The KREEM model at its present stage of development has
some significant limitation. It does not allow changes in the traffic growth rate except at ten year interval. This
makes sensitivity analysis difficult for traffic growth rates at smaller interval than ten-year. Sensitivity analysis
would have required extensive revision of the model. It is safe to conclude however, that as the economy recovers,
traffic is likely to show growth and the expected benefits would be much higher than indicated above.
- 21 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage ofProjectCycle               $oX ofW               - Persons and  iteciay  X     X   fgco     t
24- E    s   I FMS, etc.)      hEpIaunv ion       Dk..ment
M -     LL    Count  L                                   Progres           Objiv e i
Identification/Preparation
07/1992                      5   Financial Analyst, Highway
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist, Economist,
Environmental Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/1992                      4   Financial Analyst, Highway
Engineer, Procurement
Specialist, Economist,
Environmental Specialist
Supervision
03/93                         3  Financial Analyst, Highway           S                S
Engineer
Operations Officer
06/1993                       3  Financial Analyst, Highway           S                S
Engineer, Operations Officer
10/1993                      3  Financial Analyst, Highway           S                 S
Engineer, Operations Officer
02/1994                       3  Financial Analyst, Highway          S                 S
Engineer, Operations Officer
6/1994                        5  Financial analyst, Operations        S                S
Officer, Highway Engineer
11/1994                      4  Highway Engineer (2), Financial      S                 S
Analysis, Operation Officer
02/1995                       7  Highway Engineer (2),               S                 S
Operation Officer, Social
Scientist, Environmental
Specialist, Equipment
Management Specialist,
Economist
11/1995                      3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                 S
Operation Officer
04/1996                       3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                S
Operation Officer
06/1996                       3  Highway Engineer (2),               S                 S
Operation Officer
10/1996                      3  Highway Engineer, Procurement        S                 S
Specialist, Equipment
Management Specialist
03/1997                       3  Highway Engineer (2),                S                S
Operation Officer
- 22 -



07/1997                       5  Highway Engineer (3),                 S                 S
Operation Officer, Transport
Economist
03/1998                       4  Highway Engineer (3),                 S                 S
Operation Officer, Gordon
Hunting
10/1998                       4  Highway Engineer (3),                 S                 S
Operation Officer, Transport
Economist
03/1999                       5  Highway Engineer (2), Transport       S                 S
Specialist, Operation Officer,
Transport Economist
07/1999                       4  Highway Engineer (2),                 S                 S
Procurement Specialist,
Transport Engineer
10/1998                       5  Highway Engineers (2),                S                 S
Transport Economist,
Procurement Specialist
11/1999                       5  Highway Engineer (2),                 S                 S
Procurement Specialist,
Transport Engineer, Transport
Specialist
ICR
3   Economist, Highway                   S                 S
Engineer, Transport
Specialist
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
___  ______________    _No. Staff weeks                          US$ (O)        __
Identification/Preparation               36.3                       126.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    23.9                        84.8
Supervision                             118.3                       372.3
ICR                                       6.0                        15.1
Total                                   178.5                       598.8
- 23 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
E Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
M Sector Policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Physical                              * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
D Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Z Institutional Development             0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OII Gender                        O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
B Other (Please specify)          O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
2 Private sector development             0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
2 Public sector management              0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
MOther (Please specify)                 O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
- 24 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
rO Lending                                           OHS OS  OU OHU
Ol Supervision                                       O HS OS  OU  OHU
El Overall                                           OHS *OS   O  u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS * S   O U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS * S   0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 0 HS O S   0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
- 25 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
KREI Proiect
World Bank Staff Appraisal Report, Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project, March 1, 1993.
World Bank, President's Memorandum and Recommendations, 1993.
World Bank, Loan Agreement: Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project, May 26, 1993.
World Bank, Bank Mission Supervision Reports, (various, see for list of mission).
Bina Marga, Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP), August 1994.
BCEOM & Associates, Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM), Draft Final Report,
Jakarta, 30, July 1999.
CTC, Summary of Civil works Program, Contracts, Works Done and Disbursement, April 4, 2000.
Cenderawasih University Research Institute, Independent Monitoring and Evaluation of the Impact of Kabupaten
Roads on Isolated People for Region in Irianjaya Province (MEIIP), final Report Volume 1 &2, 1999.
Hoff & Overgaard, Performance Indicators for KREI, November 1999.
Hoff & Overgaard and a/s, Final Report on Bridging Services for Planning and Monitoring of Kabupaten Road
Projects, March, 1997.
N.D Lea Associates Ltd. IBRD Kabupaten Road Improvement Project for Eastern Indonesia, Draft Completion
Report, June 1996.
N.D. Lea Associates LTD. & DHV. Consultants BV. Draft Interim Completion Report, Field consultants for
Implementation, June 1996.
SNERU, ASEM, Social and Economic Development Recovery Fund Labor Intensive Works Programs of World
Bank Kabupaten Roads, 2nd October, 1999.
Renardet S.A, Consultant Services for Kabupaten Roads for Labor Intensive Works Core Team, Oct. 1999.
Renardet S.A, in Association with Pt. Arteri Cipta Rencana, Final Report: Consultant Services for Kabupaten
Roads for Intensive for labor Worls, Volume I & 2, February, 2000.
New Directions
World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Sumatra Region Project, January 20, 1998.
Republic of Indonesia, Act of the Republic of Indonesia, Number 22 of 1999, RE: Regional Administration, May 7,
1999.
Republic of Indonesia, Act of the Republic of Indonesia, Number 25 of 1999, RE: Financial proportion between
the Central Government and Regional Administration, May 19, 1999.
- 26 -



Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution/Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
1.  BACKGROUND
This paper has been prepared as part of the Borrower's contribution to the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Project (KREI) in line with the standard requirements of World
Bank loans. The report has been prepared on behalf of the Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry
of Public Works as the Government's Project Executing Agency.
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COVENANTS
2.1    Objectives and Description
The Project had two general objectives:
1.     To increase access for the population in 51 Kabupaten (districts) in 7 provinces.
2.     To enhance the planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads.
The specific objectives were to (a) improve systems and procedures for road maintenance and ensure that the
maintainable network of the 51 Kabupaten (about 12,500 km) is satisfactorily maintained; (b)
rehabilitating/improving about 3,000 kmn of existing roads; (c) improving the capability of staff involved in the
sub-sector nation-wide at all levels and (d) strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the technical
environment for planning and implementing Kabupaten roadwork programmes, including the adaptation and
dissemination of more appropriate road technologies (Staff Appraisal Report = SAR, March 1993, par. 4.1).
The objectives were intended to be achieved through (A) Road Network Maintenance and Improvement; (B)
Technology Adaptation and Dissemination; and (C) Training and Technical Assistance (refer Project Description,
Schedule 2 of Loan Agreement).
The physical objectives (a) and (b) were undertaken in parallel with the institutional objectives (c) and (d),
although it was evident that institutional factors would determine the physical outcome. This situation meant that
the expectations of the Bank for good performance under (a) and (b) were often tempered by the implementing
agencies' progress under (c) and (d); in fact previous Completion Reports show that both the Bank and the
Government had difficulty from the start in determining institutional arrangements for the Project, how to improve
Kabupaten staff capability, and how to disseminate and enforce technical standards. See PCR for RRI (June 1989),
ICR for RR2 (Dec 1994), KR3 (Dec 1997). This difficulty was mainly because the sub-sector was already highly
decentralised, with Kabupaten already fully responsible for planning and implementing their own roadwork since
the 1980's. The lack of direct control by central and provincial level agencies created considerable strain between
the Bank and the Government over the pace of achievement of objectives.
The Government feels that its own objective of strengthening decentralisation, to make Kabupaten more
responsible while at the same time helping provincial and central government to play a more effective role, was not
expressed clearly enough in Loan documents and Project implementation, which focused on the central and
provincial roles.
- 27 -



2.2    Loan Covenants
The KREI loan covenants (refer SAR chapter 6, as well as Schedule 5 of the Loan Agreement) included (a)
maintenance of the Project Secretariat (PS) established under KR3 to assist the Co-ordinating Committee of the
Project; (b) maintenance of the Project Implementation Unit in Directorate General of Highways (DGH)
established under KR3 to monitor progress in Project implementation; (c) preparation of annual road maintenance
and rehabilitation/improvement programmes in accordance with agreed criteria including time schedule and
methodology including environmental assessments and "baseline data of the social structure and income sources of
the concerned Indigenous Peoples, if any". Other loan covenants included (e) preparation of in-house training
programmes in accordance with an agreed time schedule; (f) packaging of civil works contracts according to
agreed criteria and allocation of packages to contractors of agreed classification, and (g) take into account the
interests of Indigenous Peoples in planning sub-projects and prepare a team of professionals to monitor adverse
impacts of the Project on these Peoples. Almost as a footnote in par. 6.2 of the SAR, funding eligibility of
improvement programmes in any one Kabupaten were to be contingent on its maintenance performance.
Discussions on the loan covenants tended to dominate communications between the Bank and the Government
throughout the early years of the Project, sometimes to the point that the original purpose of the covenants was
obscured. The covenants tended to appear as substitutes for the Project objectives. When the Project was explained
to lower level officials, it was often the restricting elements in the loan covenants that were emphasized.
Short-term objectives expressed in loan covenants and programmes should not be over-emphasized and thus
obscure long term objectives.
The Government considers that the timing aspects of the maintenance covenant were deficient, and the PS/PIU
covenant led to misunderstandings about control of the programme, as discussed below under sections 3.2 and 3.4
of Project Achievements. The covenants relating to the impact of the Project on Indigenous Peoples were not very
relevant to the majority of roadworks constructed under the Project.
3.  PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS
3.1    Physical Targets
Compared with the physical target of 3,000 km of rehabilitation/improvement, 2,991 km was constructed in three
years. There was slight confusion over the maintenance target under KREI. While Schedule 2 of the Loan
Agreement called for "maintenance of approximately 12,500 km of roads in 51 Kabupaten" and the SAR (par. 4.1)
mentioned "ensuring the maintainable network in 51 Kabupaten (about 12,500 km) is satisfactorily maintained",
however in par. 4.5: "The target to be reached by the third year of the project is that 90% of the maintainable
network, i.e., about 12,500 km, should be maintained. This target will be met gradually, by 50 percent for the first
year and 70 percent for the second year." Tables 2.4 and 2.5 in the SAR showed a maintainable network (good and
fair, sealed and gravel) in 51 Kabupaten was 14,223 km in 1990 (detailed by Kabupaten). These physical targets
were achieved in the planned three years, as can be seen in the following table:
Maintenance Targets and Achievements
AR Targets                                  Achievement
Year          % of Maintainable    Equivalent to   Total      Periodic    Routine
Network 14,223 Km        Km
1 = 1993/94            50               7,111         8,001       1 529      6 472
2 = 1994/95            70               9,956         11,830      2399      _,431
3=1995/96              90               12,800        13063       2612       10451
- 28 -



In network terms, the road conditions in the 51 Kabupaten have apparently worsened during the Project period,
judging from the Percentage in Good or Fair condition, as seen in the following table:
Road Type &               1990                  1996             Percentage Increase
Condlition
Good & Fair Sealed          7,260                 10,161                 +40 %
Good & Fair Gravel          6,960                  4,454                 - 36 %
Subtotal Good & Fair        14,220                 14,615                 +3 %
Other Paved              4,800                  5,751                 + 20 %
Earth, of which           16,740                20,695                 + 24 %
Impassable Earth       Not available             10,958                  n.a.
Total Network            35,762                 42,221                 + 18 %
%Good&Fair                40%                    37 %                   -3 %
The increase in the length of good/fair sealed roads represents a significant improvement in the quality of those
roads, due primarily to the KREI Project. However the national target of 60% good or fair roads (reported as 55%
in par. 2.33 of the SAR) has receded further into the future. The Governrment recognises the need to sharpen the
definition of Kabupaten roads and to focus on the most important links, however the Kabupaten are not yet
convinced of this priority. In future the Executing Agency should be made responsible and accountable for the
specific set of road links which are targeted.
The main reason for the one year loan extension was to take advantage of the funds in the Unallocated Category to
reinforce the maintenance objective and to carry out Labour Intensive Works, not to achieve physical targets.
3.2    Maintenance Policy Reform
This was the fourth loan for Kabupaten roads and, starting with KR3, changed the focus from improvement to
preservation of the existing good and fair roads as a precondition for network improvement. The main purpose was
to reform the Kabupaten habit of allocating funds to low cost (low quality, short life) stopgap repairs on roads in
bad condition which was apparent in the 1980's. It was identified that this habit was the main reason for lack of
improvement in the condition of the Kabupaten road network. For this reason, the strategy was that all roads (and
only those roads) in good and fair condition would receive maintenance funds. The Bank strongly supported this
strategy by introducing certification of maintenance works by consultants, requiring details of programmes in
advance, setting targets of the percentage of maintainable roads which should receive maintenance, and linking
approval of major works funding to satisfactory maintenance performance in the previous year.
The maintenance conditionality had a poor start due to poor scheduling of the conditionality. At the time the
maintenance performance was assessed, the betterment programme for the next year had already been determined.
This meant that all Kabupaten would be considered in default if the covenant was strictly enforced, hence the
implementation of the covenant was not very practical. In the end, most Kabupaten have greatly increased their
maintenance programmes compared with those before the KREI Project, so the target has been achieved.
This policy was supported by the KREEM model's conclusion that with likely funds available, the optimal
allocation is that all funds should be devoted to maintenance. This will be difficult for the Government to enforce
as the Kabupaten officials believe strongly in network extension. Future Bank assistance should therefore continue
to concentrate on maintenance as it is highly economic but is a difficult concept, while Kabupaten should finance
their own betterment and network extension.
A related achievement was the very simple set of tender documents produced for routine maintenance by CTC in
1994 which were based on the procurement procedures contained in Keppres 16/1994. The Bank's initiative in
sponsoring these guidelines is appreciated.
-29 -



3.3    Institutional Development: Government Staff
The "Lesson Learned" from the First Rural Road Development Project (page iv, PCR, June 1989) that
"strengthening local capacity... cannot be achieved through technical assistance alone, without proper incentives to
the civil service..."." was repeatedly observed in this Project, but the lesson could not be applied due to
Government salaries policy, as in the earlier RR2 and KR3. If anything, the financial situation of civil servants is
relatively worse now than at any time during the Project, and is a major threat to its sustainability, due to loss of
productivity and efficiency, not only of Kabupaten officials, but also of field consultants and contractors. It is not
possible to measure it, but given that field consultants and contractors accounted for 83.9% of the Total Project
Cost of US$ 286.95 million (Appendix 1), the impact of say a 30% loss of output would amount to US$ 86 million
in value.
The objective of "strengthening institutional arrangements and improving the technical environment for planning
and implementing Kabupaten roadwork programmes, including the adaptation and dissemination of more
appropriate road technologies" was considered to be one of the functions of the technical assistance (TA)
consultants employed under the Project. The consultants all contributed to these objectives, but the Government
now realizes that TA was mainly used to achieve the physical objectives of the KREI Project, and institutional
development was extremely limited.
One of the main problems was that the method of achieving institutional development was poorly articulated due to
the complexity of the decentralised arrangements and the multiple agencies involved at each level, also due to the
necessity to treat all Kabupaten with a single approach.
3.4    Institutional Development: Organisational Aspects
The organisational aspects of institutional development of Kabupaten had been partially addressed in a pilot study
on Kabupaten DPUK organisations in 1990 during preparation of KRMTP, where it was found that the 16 sample
DPUKs had 16 different organisation structures, none of which followed the Ministry of Home Affairs' guideline
on standard structure. The Ministry of Home Affairs was aware of this, but considered that lack of standardisation
was offset by the unspecified benefits of autonomy.
Kabupaten autonomy already existed at the start of the Project, not only in organisation structure but in authority;
Kabupaten were not line agencies of Provinces, and certainly not of the Central Government. The statement in par.
2.8 of the SAR that "These second level units in theory have autonomous budgets and taxation powers but in
practice function as extensions of the central or provincial governments" wrongly implied that Kabupaten follow
central or provincial instructions. In fact central and provincial governments only had powers of persuasion, and
consultants were relied on to enforce guidelines.
The establishment and maintenance of the PS and PIU for project co-ordination and monitoring was at the top of
the list of loan covenants for KR3 and then KREI. However the Project Secretariat and Project Implementation
Unit were not formally able to exercise any decision-making power. Hence the Government communicated through
a structural agency rather than through the "co-ordinating" unit.
As implementation was already in the hands of the Kabupaten, and provincial and central levels could only provide
guidance, there were built-in limits to "co-ordination" and 'monitoring" by government agencies which not even a
PS nor a PIU could overcome; secondly the structure of the PS was unbalanced, with only one technical Director
out of seven, who represented six Directorate-level agencies in DGH.
The main advantage of the PS and PIU was to act as a forum for meetings since no single agency had full control
of the programme. DGH was Executing Agency, but in fact DGH only had full control over a few components
(management of TA consultants, and procurement of equipment). The assumption in project design (SAR par
4.21) that "the detailed responsibilities of these agencies (MPW for technical aspects, MHA for institutional
aspects, Bappenas for development planning aspects, and MOF for financial aspects) and corresponding offices at
Kabupaten, provincial and central levels have been defined (par. 2.8 - 2.12)" overlooked the lack of authority by
the technical agency, and the overlap between technical, institutional, development planning and financial aspects.
It was actually recognised in "Lessons Learned from Previous Project" that "preparation of detailed implementation-
- 30 -



arrangements" was a key factor in improvement of an institutional or technical nature (SAR par. 3.6).
The role of DGH was a source of some misunderstanding. As Executing Agency, DGH could be considered
responsible for meeting the loan covenants. On the one hand this included a set of technical objectives which DGH
supported for professional reasons, but for which it could not be held responsible because of the above-mentioned
division of powers. In DGH's view, an opportunity was lost by not assigning DGH authority commensurate with its
expected responsibility and with the capability of its strong central staffing. Because of its lack of direct authority,
DGH had to rely on its Consultants to exert influence over Kabupaten agencies and contractors, but the
Consultants in turn did not have such authority. This led to tensions between Consultants and local agencies.
There was no direct system of accountability for poor quality work, as the implementing agencies were not
accountable to the Executing Agency. Indirect channels through Consultants should not be relied upon in future.
The legal environment changed in the final year of the Project, with the promulgation of Laws No. 18, 22 and 25
of 1999 on Construction Services, Regional Government and Revenue Sharing, but this was too late tQ influence
implementation. Significant changes will be needed, in particular (a) not to expect central agencies or their
consultants to keep up with detailed developments without adequate staffing and contact with Kabupatens; and (b)
local control of local programmes needs to be developed, based on a strong monitoring system, and activation of
local Parliaments and other interest groups.
In summary, the project design optimistically accepted the overlap between the four central agencies' roles, and by
maintaining a Project Secretariat and Project Implementation Unit which were non-executive structures, gave a
mistaken appearance of single executive control and had the effect of submerging the technical agency appointed
as executing agency. An unsatisfactory technical result could therefore have eventuated, and it is to the credit of
Kabupaten staff and the Consultants that the technical result was generally satisfactory.
335   Institutional Development: Technical Environment
A key objective of the KREI Project was to develop the technical environment with a technology adaptation and
dissemination component, improvement of labour-based methods, and support of the systematic technical
guidelines developed under previous Projects. This last was addressed directly through the technical assistance
consultants, and indirectly through the Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan, which prepared and implemented
training modules based on the technical guidelines. The technology adaptation and labour-based aspects were new
to KREI, while the technical guidelines and training aspects were a continuation of RR2 or KR3 initiatives.
The need for improved technologies had been recognised during the 1980's, e.g., working paper on The Use of
Asbuton (January 1980) and The Use of Asphalt Emulsions in Indonesia (January 1989), followed by working
papers specifically for Kabupaten roads during preparation of KR3 (Report on Technology Development, July
1991, and Report on Technology Adaptation and Dissemination, September 1991). These latter recommendations
eventually found their way into Annex 5 of the KREI SAR. The technologies identified were bitumen emulsions,
softer-grade bitumens, graded aggregate pavement materials, cold-laid bitumen mixes, soil stabilisation, and
fine-grain Asbuton. The 1991 Report included specification of quantities of new materials which it was recognised
would have to be bought for the selected Kabupaten, and supporting activities required by consultants. However it
was not permitted for consultant contracts to include civil works items. No other way was found to budget
specifically for these items, and field consultants could not persuade Kabupaten or contractors to purchase items of
which they had no experience, especially bitumen items where contracts with Pertamina were arranged at
Provincial level. The constrained role of DGH described under Organisation Aspects above explains why DGH
itself could not initiate or encourage, let alone organise or implement this component. A DGH force account unit
should be set up to demonstrate the methods and benefits of improved technologies to Kabupaten works agencies.
This could be based in Regional Depots for efficiency.
The only major change of technology used by the Kabupaten now, compared with 10 or 20 years ago, is the
selected use of hotmix asphalt for short lengths of urban roads, employing contractors and equipment established
under the national/provincial road programme. The demonstration effect is evidently one key to this success, but
this was never achieved for the range of technologies in Annex 5 which could have reduced the cost and/or
improved the quality of kabupaten roadworks under KREI.
More success was achieved with demonstration of labour-intensive methods (LIM) under a TA services contract
- 31 -



with ILO from May 1993 until April 1996. This component was originally identified during Pre-Appraisal of RR2
in November 1986 but was delayed due to GOI objections over ILO policy in Indonesia which had nothing to do
with this component. The pilot covered two kabupatens in West Kalimantan (Sambas and Pontianak) and two
kabupatens in West Java (Subang and Bandung). Improvements in productivity were measured on a range of
works under the supervision of ILO, but it was not possible to distinguish improvements due to the methods
themselves from improvements due to the heightened supervision, attention and enthusiasm of the ILO team,
which was tangible. Demonstration of soil stabilisation was also achieved in conjunction with LIM, but were
inconclusive. A Study Tour was arranged to Thailand in September 1994 for 12 officers from DGH, the provincial
public works agency of West Java and from Kabupaten Subang. The main conclusions of the ILO Review
published in January 1996 was that LIM is appropriate for construction of gravel roads but not of penetration
macadam sealed pavements, and therefore may apply to about 10% of proposals for road improvement. The
lengthman system is recommended as the most suitable organisation for routine maintenance, compatible with
Labour Intensive Methods. (Pilot Labour Intensive Road Project - Potentials and Prospects, January 1996, par. 34 -
45).
Systematic guidelines for planning of Kabupaten road improvements had been initiated with the Director General
of Bina Marga's Decree no. SK 77 of 1990. These were revised and re-issued in November 1995 without revising
the decree number. A range of engineering guidelines was prepared from 1990 to 1992, which DGH issued to all
KREI Provinces in March 1993. Planning guidelines included environmental screening, while engineering
guidelines included basic clauses for environmental protection. Engineering guidelines were also re-issued in
November 1995, but without significant changes. Appendix 2 includes a list of materials for Guidance of
Kabupaten Road Development prepared or updated during the period of the Project, including recommendation for
future updating once every five years.
Specific comments by DGH on Labour Intensive Methods (LIM) included: (a) further work is needed on technical
terms to keep them in line with DGH standards; (b) more emphasis needed on quality control aspects; (c) the levels
of supervision required on each LIM activity should be spelled out; (d) the LIM manual should make reference to
other manuals and guidelines that relate to the use of LIM; and (e) there is a need to make more specific reference
to DGH standards (idem, par. 101).
An important indicator of sustainability of the technical environment established under the KRP is the acceptance
of the technical guidelines for non-Project funded works. Before 1997, GOI guidelines had stated that planning
guidelines SK77 only applied to foreign-assisted works. In 1997/98 SK77 became a pre-requisite for eligibility of
betterment works, regardless of the source of funding.
The CTC was to assist a Planning Research Unit within DGH. This was not established, and all planning research
activities were carried out by CTC. In the future, key aspects of decentralised Kabupaten roadworks programmes,
such as vehicle operating costs and definitions of work types, will still need to be decided at central level.
3.6    Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance (TA) including works supervision amounted to 11.6% percent of the total Project cost under
KREI, compared with an estimated 10.2% at Appraisal (Appendix 1). Supervision alone accounted for 8.3% (FCI),
compared with an estimate of 7.3%. The Government considers that this is a relatively high figure, but it is
inevitably costly to support decentralisation policy. It is also necessary to prepare systems for long-term use (such
as KRMTP, 0.3% of KREI Project cost). The investment of 2.3% of the Project cost in institutional assistance
included 1.7% for CTC planning assistance to all Kabupaten and development of planning and monitoring
systems, as well as 0.4% for ISEM environmental management services, and 0.2% for Monitoring of Impact on
Isolated Peoples (all described below).
One objective of the KREI Project was to extend the KR3 training effort to upgrade Kabupaten staff skills: directly
through on-job training by technical assistance consultants, CTC for planning and FCI for design and
implementation, and indirectly through the Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan, which is expected to have
longer-term benefits (see Section 3.10 and Appendix 6).
The largest slice of assistance was for Field Consultants for Implementation (FCI) consisting of two sets of
contracts, Region I supervising roadworks in Sulawesi and Irian Jaya, and Region II supervising roadworks in
- 32 -



Nusa Tenggara Barat and Timur. All field consultants reported improvement of Kabupaten performance over the
years, but their advice not to re-employ certain contractors was generally ignored. The Central Government does
not have power to pre-qualify Kabupaten contractors, but this greatly influences the quality of work. Future
services of a similar type should not expect advisory services to apply more authority than their Client actually
possesses. Comments on the ILO services are given in section 3.5.
The Central Technical Consultant (CTC), had begun under KR3 and was nominated in the KREI SAR to continue
through KREI. However, as this was a direct appointment, their contract was modified six times under KREI,
from September 1994 until May 1996. The length of these contracts averaged 3.5 months, causing considerable
uncertainty and loss of efficiency. Total input amounted to 123.4 mm foreign and 773.8 mm Indonesian
professional. The Consultant's pre-financing to maintain continuity is noted.
CTC services established systematic planning procedures in about 150 Kabupaten in Indonesia (that is, in all
Kabupaten except those assisted by AsDB in Java); developed an economic model for allocation of budgets to
Kabupaten roads (KREEM), developed a computerised Kabupaten Roads Management System (KRMS) to enable
monitoring of planning, budgeting, contract, progress and payments; developed a performance evaluation system
based on the technical guidelines, and later on, performance indicators for Kabupaten roadworks; and gave ad hoc
operational support and advice in co-ordination of the KR Projects.
The CTC Environmental Task Group established and implemented new environmental guidelines for Kabupaten
roads in parallel with evolving environmental regulations, and developed screening procedures and generic
environmental studies (sectoral PILs) which save carrying out environmental studies on about 90% of Kabupaten
roads in Indonesia (varying between Kabupaten), thereby saving much time and money. The total consultant input
in the CTC Environmental Task Group from July 1992 to December 1997 was 38.6 man-months foreign and 197
man-months of Indonesian professional services. Half of this input was financed under the KREI Project, covering
the period from September1994 until December 1997.
Institutional Strengthening in Environmental Management (ISEM) services were provided from September 1996 to
October 1999 (3 years) for DGH Directorates of Planning (BIPRAM), Urban (BINKOT) and Technical Guidance
(BINTEK). Total consultant input was 80.84 man-months foreign and 190.43 man-months of Indonesian
professional services, about 72% under KREI and 28% under KR5. ISEM was focussed on the strengthening of
environmental procedures and operational support, particularly for national and provincial roads. A range of
guidelines/working procedures were produced, with useful abstracts.
Monitoring of the Impact of the Project on Isolated Peoples was carried out under two contracts funded from KREI,
one in 1997 with the University of Indonesia covering two Kabupaten in Riau and two Kabupaten in East
Kalimantan (roadworks assisted under KR5) and a second in 1999 with the University of Cendrawasih covering
two Kabupaten in Irian Jaya (roadworks assisted under KREI). The second report is very well documented and is a
model for future work in monitoring such impacts.
3.7    Civil Works: Physical
Appendix 1 shows that civil works made up 81.6% of Project costs, versus 79% at Appraisal. The Project was not
seriously affected by the economic downturn which affected Indonesia in the late 1990's. The monitoring system
recorded actual works, not design data. Although the FCI were required to certify that designs and tender
documents were adequate, it was decided to sacrifice design data from the project monitoring databases. Only the
certification of design was recorded as a basis for eligibility. As a result, much less is known about design than
about planning or implementation. One lesson learnt from KREI and KR5 is that more effort needs to be put into
improving design quality.
- 33 -



3.8    Civil Works: Financial
To recover payment data for reimbursement of eligible expenditure, the Field Consultant's duties included
monitoring of payments, as well as the monitoring of roadwork programmes, contracts and physical progress
expected of a Works Supervisor. However the monitoring of payments turned out to be a greater challenge than
expected, both for the FCI to obtain the data, for the CTC to reconcile it with contracts and disbursements, and for
the Ministry of Finance to identify payments and prepare Statements of Expenditure (SOE). Appendix 3 shows the
Actual Disbursement versus Expected Disbursement (from SAR) and Physical Progress (Contracts Let and Work
Done). The large effort in monitoring and co-ordination paid off in keeping the Project generally on schedule.
Contract and SPM (Payment) Data for all of the 2,322 contracts funded under the main civil works sub-categories
of the Loan were matched and reconciled. The Loan Status Reports adjusted estimated programme values based on
actual exchange rates and contract values. A single exchange rate was calculated and continuously updated for
each Civil Works Year and Loan Sub-Category, and for each Non-Civil Works contract and currency.
Labour Intensive Works of about US$ 13.10 million were funded using "savings" from unsubmitted applications
for unrecoverable payments for roadworks in earlier years of KREI. While this has greatly assisted the
Government to overcome some of the effects of the economic crisis, it actually represents an amount funded in full
by the Government due to inadequate administration of payments for Kabupaten roadworks. This is the final gap
between Physical Progress and Disbursement in Appendix 3. The effect of the disbursement shortfall was to
reduce the average Loan share for all civil works to 38.7% from 43.8% (average of 37% in early years and 100%
net of tax for LIW works).
The main lesson from the KREI financial monitoring experience is that sharing payment data between Bank
Indonesia and the Ministry of Finance needs to be established, as well as a method for the Ministry of Finance to
assemble Statements of Expenditure based on eligible works, preferably with access to the database and online
access to all KPKN's.
3.9    Civil Works: Quality
The RR2 Project had developed technical audit procedures for measuring the quality of traditional penetration
macadam pavements on Kabupaten roads, and in 1988 initiated post-construction monitoring of road conditions to
monitor deterioration. These efforts were continued under KR3 and KREI. A small sample of 7 sub-projects in
West Java was audited in 1994, and a further 17 sub-projects in 6 KR3 provinces were audited in late 1995 and
early 1996. A total of 8 sub-projects in 6 KREI provinces were audited in June 1995 (report published May 1996).
The conclusion of the technical audit was that construction quality is a serious problem, with deficiencies being
found in thickness and quality of pavement materials, and also in bitumen content. However, the impact of poor
construction quality on pavement life is not so conclusive, judging from results of post-construction monitoring.
A total of 149 sub-projects, averaging two per KR3 Kabupaten, were surveyed approximately every six months by
the FCI from February 1993 until their demobilisation in 1996. In the KREI Kabupaten, 64 sub-projects in 49
Kabupaten were surveyed during this time. A list of all projects surveyed under KR3, KREI and KR5 was included
in the latest PCM Guidelines, with the latest rating. CTC/Bridging Consultants carried out the latest survey of
these links in May 1997. The majority (62%) of these roads were still in good condition 6 to 8 years after
construction, and another 38% were in fair condition, despite an imperfect maintenance regime. The deterioration
curve is remarkably flat for the penetration macadam surfaces (covering 90% of cases), compared with that for
other sealed surface types.
It is obvious that progress has been slow in the achievement of quality in accordance with design and
specifications. It appears that construction quality (particularly drainage) has a greater effect on lifetime than
maintenance quality, therefore procurement of good contractors, and application of good supervision are the major
determinants.
The Project was not permitted to use force account construction for anything except routine maintenance or the
lower-standard LIW component. Therefore it was not really possible to verify that force account works is-
- 34 -



significantly cheaper than the equivalent standard contract works. Due to sub-standard routine maintenance by
contractors witnessed in Central Sulawesi in the early years of the Project, the Field Consultants organised
well-controlled force account works of a network of roads in Kabupaten Donggala, followed by routine
maintenance with 6 to 8 groups of 30 km sections each under one foreman. The quality of these roads remains
outstanding and demonstrated that if a Kabupaten is willing to manage its own works, the quality of Kabupaten
roadworks can be vastly improved.
3.10 Training
The first phase of the KRMTP consultant services from October 1993 to November 1996 was funded under KR3,
while the second phase until May 1998 was funded under KREI (Addendum 4 of the contract). The following is a
summary of achievements under the whole contract related to objectives, for which details are provided in
Appendix 4.
1.     KRMTP selected and trained nine qualified candidates for the Bina Marga Human Resources
Development (BMHRD) Team. The selected candidates had 9 month in-country and overseas training.
2.     KRMTP designed and prepared Competency Based Method (CBM) training materials for 20 to 25 priority
course selected by Bina Marga. 20 courses were developed using CBM.
3.     The BMHRD Team were trained to eventually take over training needs analysis, curriculum design,
materials development, training delivery and monitoring, evaluation and feedback. However the Kabupaten Roads
BMHRD Team was not actively involved in preparing training materials.
4.     KRMTP implemented three types of courses: Training Courses for CBM  Instructors, Stakeholder
Seminars and Pilot-testing of CBM courses. Approximately 1,278 participants were trained.
5.     KRMTP developed Systems for Quality Assurance, Training Needs Analysis and Curriculum Design,
Course Design and Training Materials Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and Feedback.
Principal lessons learned relate to the amount of formal training carried out and to the BMHRD:
-      Due to different management and agendas, there was little effective contact between KRMTP and the
main technical line agencies of DGH or with the TA providing guidance for planning, design and implementation,
or with the parallel NPRMTP services.
-      Training delivery by the training institution amounted to 0.1% of Total Project Cost, far smaller than was
warranted by the large effort put into preparing training materials and human resources (KRMTP).
*      The Government cannot sustain the BMHRD team to carry out its intended functions. In future training
should be implemented by the main technical line agency. If counterpart teams such as BMHRD are trained, they
should be given some responsibility, and not all of the work allocated to consultants.
The principal lesson learned for on-job training was that force account management provides invaluable
opportunities for on-job training in good quality construction and maintenance (see section 3.10).
- 35 -



3.11   Performance Indicators
A set of Performance Indicators was developed in the final year of the Project to measure the Project achievements
in a tangible manner. In addition to the findings on Network Achievements described under Section 3.1 above, it
was found that (a) Planning Performance rose significantly from 1994 to 1999 corresponding with continuous
technical assistance; (b) no significant improvement in construction or maintenance speed was observable during
the Project; (c) a serious drop-off in the training programme occurred at the end of the Project due to Indonesia's
economic crisis; (d) most of the planned new technologies have been used, and (e) the number of PCM surveys has
dropped off sharply since the demobilisation of the Field Consultants for Implementation.
3.12 Equipment
Procurement of roadworks and other equipment for the Kabupaten was managed by DGH, and went more smoothly
than under RR2/KR3, because specifications and evaluation procedures had been ironed out. Problems in
financing delivery of equipment were assisted by the Bank agreeing to fmance Inland Delivery out of the Loan in
the final year of the Project. The KR3 Loan Covenant requirement to transfer ownership of all Loan-finanoed
equipment to the Kabupaten was finally achieved in 1998, following a Joint Decree issued by the Ministry of Public
Works and Ministry of Home Affairs, authorised by the Minister of Finance. Ownership of all equipment procured
under KR3 and KREI has now been transferred to the respective Kabupaten. This was intended to improve its
maintenance, together with three other initiatives under the KR5 Project: inproved equipment management
procedures, introduction of self-financing (Swadana) mechanisms for Kabupaten workshops, and introduction of
more rational equipment rental rates, all supported by the KEWMI services managed by DGRD and funded from
KR5.
An important limitation was the lack of qualified experienced mechanics and operators in the Kabupaten. For this
reason the Project tried to stimulate the private sector to purchase equipment. Other initiatives under this Project
included minimal FCI mechanical engineering services, greatly reduced from that provided under previous
Projects, and two loan covenants: contract packaging for Betterment and Periodic Maintenance to ensure work was
done by larger contractors, and multi-years' Betterment contracts, also intended to provide larger contracts as an
encouragement for contractors to buy equipment. The multi-years covenant did not work at all, as the Ministry of
Finance had previously decided that all funds must be spent in one year to enforce fiscal discipline; for planning
reasons, most Kabupaten road projects are small scale, and suitable for completion in one year. The contract
packaging covenant had mixed success. It conflicted with an early DGRD instruction to encourage the use of local
and "weak economic group" contractors, and Kabupaten themselves considered they had less control over large
contractors based outside the Kabupaten. In practice, many contractors sub-let part or all of the works to local
contractors, but because this procedure was not pernitted under General Conditions of Contract, it was not
documented. The use of larger contractors therefore did not guarantee increased use of equipment, and reportedly
raised administrative overheads. Many contractors are in fact suppliers and organisers of labour.
A serious factor inhibiting equipment ownership was identified in a paper by CTC ("Availability of Credit and
Guarantee to Contractors", August 1994): the Indonesian banking system does not support lending for equipment
purchase, as the equipment itself is not regarded as collateral. Contractors rarely have large fixed assets, so do not
qualify for lending. This factor was well beyond the possible scope of the Project's initiatives, and recent
developments in the banking sector have made it even less prospective than before. Efforts to make more efficient
use of Kabupaten-owned equipment, including force-account maintenance and construction, should'therefore have
been applied. However the Project covenants made it clear than force account was not in favour: it was ruled out
entirely for Betterment and Periodic Maintenance, and limited to 50% of Routine Maintenance.
As a result of the "privatisation agenda" dictating a number of impractical loan covenants, real progress in
identifying a suitable and practical role for the private sector in the respective Kabupatens was not achieved. This
agenda, based on a faith in large contractors, impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the planning and
implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads."
- 36 -



4.  BANK PERFORMANCE
Intensive Bank supervision was given, averaging one Supervision Mission every 4.5 months. The Government
recognises the value of a disciplined framework of regular progress reviews, accompanied by short-term action
plans and task lists. The Bank's practice of supervising KR3, KREI and KR5 together (in "clusters") assisted the
Government in management of the Projects.
However, some problems arose from the periodic nature of Bank supervision, characterised by short bursts of
intensive activity. During the short mission periods, it was often impracticable for all the relevant government staff
to be involved, attempts were made to address too many issues simultaneously and communication problems arose.
The apparent understandings in Aide Memoires were not always grasped by staff from all concerned government
agencies.
Although the Bank was fully committed to the PS/PIU arrangements, the Mission staff still made an effort to see
key staff from all central agencies on each visit, recognising that the PS/PIU had no real authority. However the
Missions apparently did not have authority to discuss a redesign of the Project's institutional arrangements during
the Project implementation period.
5.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Decentralisation of management functions to appropriate administrative levels is a key objective of government
policy. However this objective was made more difficult to achieve due to extensive effort required to arrange
co-operation and co-ordination between four central level agencies and their sub-agencies in the Project, and partly
due to management weaknesses among concemed staff. By spending too much time on central government
management, not enough has been done for local government management, and in this sense the Project has
contributed little to improving Borrower performance. The Government accepts there is a continuing need for
management upgrading within local government, and would welcome the Bank's advice on how the problem
might be tackled. Unfortunately, management upgrading has been limited in scope to contract management and
financial management, with very little emphasis on principles of organisation, office management or personnel
management and communications.
6.  CONCLUSIONS
The main questions are whether the Project loan has provided good value for money, whether it has led to
improvements that would not otherwise have occurred and whether these improvements are sustainable.
The economic re-evaluation of the parallel and similar KR5 Project suggested that the investment in road
betterment and maintenance yielded a sound return averaging about 30%, but that returns could have been higher
if quality had improved. The sustainability of the KREI Project still remains to be demonstrated during the coming
period when further decentralisation is expected.
The main lessons of KREI are that:
*      Strengthening local capacity cannot be achieved through technical assistance alone, without proper
incentives to the civil service. The costs of inadequate incentives were seen in loss of productivity and output of
officials, field consultants and contractors.
*      Construction quality has a great effect on works lifetime, therefore procurement of good contractors and
good supervision are major determinants. The incentive issue directly affects these issues.
*      A privatisation agenda and faith in large contractors impeded the Project objective of "enhancing the
planning and implementation capacity of GOI agencies in charge of Kabupaten roads.
- 37 -



*      The Government's objective of strengthening decentralisation was not clear in the Project design.
*      Effective decentralisation requires a good monitoring system. Local Parliaments and other local
stakeholders need to be trained in this task. Central agencies or their consultants cannot assist without adequate
staffing and contact with the implementing agencies.
*      There was little accountability for poor quality work, as the implementing agencies were not accountable
to the Executing Agency. Field Consultants did not have the authority to enforce contracts.
*      Improving the Kabupaten road network is not achievable while the local authorities give priority to
expanding their networks. In future, if a central agency is responsible for a Project funded by a foreign loan, it
should be made responsible and accountable for the specific road links which are targeted.
*      Too few real resources were devoted to practical training in a Project with the supposed objective of"
enhancing capacity". Direct training delivery only accounted for 0.1% of Project Costs, not counting the CTC's
planning training effort which succeeded in training as well as in institutionalising SK77.
*      In future, training should be implemented by the main technical line agency. If counterpart teams such as
BMHRD are trained, they should be given some responsibility, and not all of the work allocated to consultants.
*      Initiatives to encourage equipment ownership by contractors were not successful, as the banking sector
does not provide lending. Efforts to make more efficient use of Kabupaten-owned equipment should have been
applied, however force-account was discouraged by Loan covenants.
-      A DGH force account unit should be set up to demonstrate the methods and benefits of improved
technologies to Kabupaten works agencies. This could be based in Regional Depots for efficiency.
l Future Bank assistance should continue to concentrate on maintenance as it is highly economic but is a
difficult concept, while Kabupaten should finance their own betterment and network extension.
- 38 -



APPENDICES (on file in Bank)
1.   Expenditure Accounts: Baseline Vs Actual,
Status of Disbursements by Loan Category
2.   Materials for Guidance of Kabupaten Road Development
3.   Expected versus Actual Disbursement, and Physical Progress versus Disbursement
4.   ICR for KRMTP Component
- 39 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24360
_    --  -        Irio*T~~~~HAllAND                                                  2rF,'                                                            2a-IPID)EI
INDONESIA
r9-d. A.),                     <
^UI                     / , .     . PHILIPPINES                                          EASTERN INDONESIA
-   '"   Rf;  *KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
MALAYSIA                                                            RN r     J                     L                                                                   -
KUA~~~~~~ LUMPUR  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~j,,   ~~~~~~~   ~~                       ~                  ~      ~      ~     ~     STR~~iICTS INCWDMD IN *ME THRO KAIUPA1EN
\  KUALA LUMPUR   /.MALAYSlA/                                                                        j,                                                                      ROA,$ -SJROCT -  349  INN
\ K.-:r /                                                                                       r                                                                                          0   NC~TPV
PROVENCE BOUNOAR10S
9                                                                  0.1                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INOENATIONAI EOUNDARIES
SANGKA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPLUA
DK. SIci. JAKARTA   -
.tAW NATENGAR                                                >EIJIUNG                                                                                              T0
4. EAWA I UNAH              ..k
A. . YOGYAKARTA
F7.    TIMUR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   >
4.  AMPIJNG                                                                                                               P.
.ERNOKIUJLU                                             -
6.8SUMATERA SEWRAN
I.SUMATERA BARAT
I.SUMUATERA UTARA
I)DI ACTH                                                                I,'              MDR
4,KALIMA TAN EAPAT>
I.KAUPAANTAN TENGAHl
IL. KALIAANTAN SELATAN
I.KAUiMANTAN TIMUR                                                                                     A~
I.SUIJAWESI TENGAH
tS. SIUAWS S UTARA
25$ULAWESI SELAIAN
1.SULAWeSi TINOGAEA
23. mvsA      PL                                                                                                    S RAA
24. NURA TENGGARA TIMET                                                                                                                                             TIMOR                                          &   iGo IOU         40U-  Soo  :1
IR.IAN JAYA             TV.,," l.b%,          V~d~,'Z  ~f~SJMARGT
ISV                      H~~~~~~~~~12-                       I                                121-VLI                                                                s~--
NOVEMBER 1992L



