Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
AA/ 3J7 77
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESLA
&STERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
MARCH 1, 1993
liii D:jl'.IJP; CAIFY
I':FI c, 't Nt5. ll--- IN'    Ivl-  &yp:  I
J I j~    P 1 :    :A5 L~    T lnNti  Ml )IY u: I A KkTAhIFIATLN Tr;
i-.  -:3-.;. iY;.,-nmA'.9s7  eltpt- E:3AIN
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribuon and may be used by recpients only ii
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1993)
Currency Unit     =Rupiah (Rp)
Rp 1 million      =US$48F
US$1.00           =Rp 2,050
GOVERNMENT OF NDONESLA
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
UNiTS OF MEASURES
1 meter (m)            -  39.37 inches
1 kilometer (kin)      =  0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =  2.47 acres
PRlNCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB               -  Asian Development Bank
AADT or ADT       -  Average Annual Daily Traffic
AMDAL             -  Analysis of Environment Impacts
Bapped-' T --id 1I    -  Provincial and Kabupaten Development Planning Agency
Bappt             -  National Development Planning Agency
CTC               -  Central Technical Consult.*ts
DGH               -  Directorate General of HIghways (MPW)
DGLC              -  Directorate General of Land Communications (MOC)
DGRD              -  Directorate General of Regional Development (MHA)
DPUK              -  Kabupaten Office of Public Works
DPUP              -  Provincial Office of Public Works
ETA               -  Enviromnental hnpact Assessment
FCI               -  Field Consultants for Implementation
GOI               -  Government of Indonesia
Inpres            -  Instruksi Presidern (m project context, a central government
grant program to local governments)
IPJK              -  Inpres Peningkatan lalan Kabupaten (central government
grants for betterment of kabupaten roads)
IRI               -  International (road) roughness index
KR3               -  Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project
P.T. Jasa Marga    -  Indonesia Toll Road Corporation
MHA               -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOC               -  Ministry of Communications
MOF               -  Ministry of Finance
MPW               -  Ministry of Public Works
OECF              -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
PBPJK             -  Proyek  Bantuan  Penanganan  Jalan  Kabupaten  (special
provincial road units for assistance to local governments)
REPELITA          -  Indonesia National Five Year Development Plan
REPPPROT          -  Regional Physical Planning Program for Traningration
RR2               -  Second Rural (ICabupaten) Roads Project
RUT               -  Road User Tax
SOE               -  Statement of Expenditure
USAID             -  U.S. Agency for International Development
VOC                -  Vehicle operating cost



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
EASTERN INDONEWA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SummARY
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          US$155 million equivalent
Lending Terms: Twenty years repaylmet, including five years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project Objectives
and Description: The main objectives of fte project are to enhce the capability of
GOI agencies hat manage the development of kabupaten roads, and
tO improve the quality and capacity of the road networks in
selected kabupatens in Eastern Indonsia on a sustainable basis.
The project would lead to improved rural access to fte main
economic centers in the largely agricultue depedent Kabupatens
in Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara, and Mlan Jaya that are among the
poorest provinces of Indonesia. Ihe project includes the following
main components: (a) a road network inprovement component,
subdivided into three subcomponents:  (i) road works and
supervision for the maintnace of an increasing share of the
nmalntaible part of the kabupaten road network as well as
reblittation of selected roads in project kabupatens over three
fiscal years startg in 1993194; (ii) workshops and laboratories
upgrading and equipping; (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts
and supplies; (b) a traiing component, including development and
implementation of priority parts of a nationwide training program
fdr kabupaten road staff; and (c) tenical assistance and studies
for strengthening systems and procedures for planning,
environmental analysis, adaption and dissemination of better road
works technologies, and for helping GOI agencies in the
implementation and monitoring of the project.
Project Benefits
and Risks:       Rehabiliaton and better mnnance  of roads will lead to
significant reduction of vehicle operatng costs in the kabupatens.
In addition, the project will Increase GOI's capability to plan and
implement kabupaten road works programs efficiently in the entire
country thereby reducing the costs of road provision and road use.
Over time, lower road trnsport costs will Uanslate into lower
agrclura costs, higher rural incomes, and a better integration of
the Indnesan economy.  Ihe main risks are related to
implemntion of the planning procedures, and the funding of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclesed without World Bank authoriation.



- II -
maintenance. To reduce tie risks, GOI's National Development
Plning Agency. Bappenas, has already agreed to the itse of
Inpre fimds for maintxe and will continue to play a strong
coordinating role in project planing and implementatont Also,
the           targets have been carefey designed and adequacy
of ma_nonce will be for each kabupaten a condition of
picipation the project's annual rehabilitation/iprovement
programs.
Estmated Costs: La                       Local      Foreig     Total
US$ million -   *_
A. Road network impovent
1. Road works                     166.8     79.4       246.0
2. Workshops, laboratories          2.5       3.9        6.4
3. Equipment                        1.8      17.6       19.4
Subtotal                        171.1    10.         27
B. Technology adaptatio                2.4       1.3        3.8
C. Training                            3.7       1.4        5.1
D. Inst'l & tech. devlopment           2.2       2.7        4.9
Total Base Costs                  1Ma
Physical CoingencIes              17.8      9.6       27.4
Price Contingencies               12.2      6.0        18.0
Totl Project Costs                 a9 d.U
Fiac4n Pln:
GOI                              176.0      0.3       176.3
IBRD                              33.4    121.6       155.0
Total Fancallg                    209.4    121.9       331.3
La Inclusive of taxes and dutia amouiJng to US$30.1 million equivalent.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.



Disbursements:
Bank FV                   FT%4    1Y9   FY6   FY97  FY9
USS milon
Annal                        20       44     57       30       4
Cumulatve                   20        64    121      151    155
Ecamic Rate
of Rtrn:               34%
MaP:                   IBRD No. 24360



- iv -
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pae No.
1  TMETRANSPORT SECOR ....................   1
A. Geographic and Economic Setting 1................ 
B.  he TransportSysten .......................   2
C. Objectivesand ssues  .......................   2
2   THE ROAD SUBSECTOR ......................   4
A. Introduction .................                          4
R. TheRoad Network .........................   4
C. KabupatenRoads ..........................   5
D. Administrative Structure ......................         6
E. Road Transport ...........................   7
F. Fmancing ...............................   9
G. PlanningandBudgetng ........ ..         ............  10
H. Expenditures                   ..                      11
I. Technical Aspect..........................  13
J. ConstructionIndustry ........................  14
K. Environental Aspects  ......................  14
3   PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN THE ROA.) SUBSECTOR
AND LESSONS LEARNED .....................  16
A. Past Bank Involvement ......................  16
B. MainLssons Leaned ........................  17
4   TE PROJECT .............................19
A. Objectives .........        .....................  19
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement .....     ............  19
C. Project Desaiption .........      ................  20
D. Road Network Improvement andtne  .....           ....  20
This report is based on the fidings of an appraisal mission which visited Indonesia in
October 1992 comprising Messrs. Emmanuel James (Task Manager), Jacques Tollie
(Senior Highway Engineer), and Jun Zhang (Economist). Messrs. W. Lane and
D. Martin (Enviromnental Specialists), and W. Hardi (RSI) also assisted in project
preparation. Peer Reviewers were Messrs. Yenny (economic aspects) and Sigfusson
(tnical aspects). Ms. Haug, Director, EA3, and Mr. Khanna, Division Chief,
EA3IN, have endorsed the project.



E. Techology Adaptato and Dsemnton....... .                 23
F. Trainig ..............              ... . . . . . . . .  24
G. Techncal Assistance for Instittona and
Tehic Developnent .. .....................   24
H. Cost EF _t s ............................  25
. Finang  ...............................   26
J.   p           and Monitoin ..I...I........i.g ...... ...  27
K. Pxcuumet ....... ...............   28
L. Dsbmseaie   .............. *.30
M. Account and Audt  ...s  ......................  32
N. Retroactive Financing ... ....................   33
0. Envionena  and SocWi  hma   ................             33
s   ECONOMUC EVALUATION  ....................  36
A. Subprojects Seleton   .    ................              36
B. Bereft and BeinflIad .         ..s.       .     .        37
C. EconomicReau   and Senskd          Teo  ..... . .38
D. Ris                 .     ........................... .    39
6 AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION . 40
ANNEXES
1.   Policy Stemet and Acdon Pan
2.   Review of Kabupatens' Expendius ad Revenus
3.  Summary Pannin Procedures and Ecotomic Evaluaon
4.   Road Mantenoan  in Project K pan
5.   Technology Dissein
6.   Training C*mponent: Objedvs ad Mjo Feaus
7.   Teical Assistac
8.   Project              ScpheentonS dule
9.   ReportiR      remnt
10. SupvisIon Pban
11. Environmental Analysis
12. Documents and Data Aalbl in the Project File



- si -
TABLES
1.1 Statistcal Overview
1.2 ORDP per Capita
1.3 Populaion and Land Area
1.4 Land use in E. Indonesia
1.5 Land use by Region
1.6 Forest Function Areas
2.1 Road Network LIgth
2.2  Road Pavement Classifcions
2.3 Road Network Condition
2.4 Kabupaten Roads Condition
2.5 Project Kabupatens' Road " ;; orks
2.6 Registered Motor Vehicles
2.7 Registered Motor Vehicles by Region
4.1 Design Standards for Kabupaten Roads
4.2 Equipment Required
4.3 Project Cost Estimates
4.4 Estimated Disbursements
CHAS
1.  Directorate Genera of Highways
2.  Directorate General of Regional Develpment
3. Provincial Public Works Offices
4.  Kabupaten Public Works Offices
MAP IBRD No. 24360



1
TE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. GEOGRAPC AND ECONOMIC SE 1lIG
1.1        Straddling the equator, Idonesia extends some 5,100 km from east to
west and 1,800 kan from north to south. Within this space lie over 13,000 islands
totalling a land area of about 1.9 million km2 and encompassing 2.9 nmllion knm of sea.
Sumatra, Java, Bali and Nusa Tenggara form a continuous chain of islands with short
sea crossings between them. Ihis island arc accounts for about 64 percent of the total
land area and contains 88 percent of the population. The population of over 180 million
in 1990 was very unevenly distributed with extremes ranging from a density of over
800 people/km2 in Java to less than 4 people/km2 in hTian Jaya. Despite high urban
growth, about 70 percent of the population still lives in rural areas.
1.2        The nine provinces of Eastern Indonesia, located on the islands of
Sulawesi, Nusa Tenggara, Maluku, Timor, and Irian Jaya, cover about 40 percent of
the country's land area. They include about 13 percent (23.4 million) of the total
population and have relatively low average densides of 30 persons/km2. Some
43 percee of the nation's forest cover is located in the eastern region, though provinces
like Nusa Tenggara have only small forested areas. Although about 26 percent of the
total land area is potentially cultivable, largely because of Irian Jaya, existing cultivated
and settled areas account for only 5 percent of te region's total land area.
1.3        Agriculture is still the key sector in the Indonesian economy. It accounts
for about 20 percent of GNP and 50 percent of non-oil exports (including timbr) and
provides employment to more than 50 percent of the population. The Indonesian
economy has performed relatively well in the 1980s. For example, between 1985 and
1990, real GNP grew at an average of 5.8 percent per annum. This period has been
marked by a gLowing diversification of the economy as a result of GOrs effort at
reducing internal and external imbalances and promoting private sector development.
1.4        Eastern Indonesia has a predominantly agricultural economy and on the
whole is the lesser developed part of the country. The average GRDP per capita of this
region is about 60 percent of the national average, in nominal terms. The two
provinces of Nusa Tenggara are the poorest in Indonesia, with per capita incomes
reaching only 36 percent of te national average. Irian Jaya, though having a GRDP per



^2 -
capita close to the national average, is probably the least developed province in the
region. Further details are in tables 1.1-1.6.
B. TEE TRANsor SySrEm
1.5        In general, the transport system has been able to meet the rapidly
growing transport needs of the economy at a reasonable financial cosi (as evidenced by
prevailing fares) to users. Because of the vast size of the country and the uneven
distribution of population, natural resources and economic activity, transport is of
special importance to the Indonesian economy and an extensive transport system has
been developed over time. All transport modes-road, rail, shipping, civil aviation,
inland waterways, and pipelines-are represented in this system but road is the
dominant mode accounting for an estmated 53 percent of medium- and long-distance
freight transport and 88 percent of passenger traffic. The modes tend to complement
one another; only in Java and in a few corridors in other regions is there intermodal
competition. There is scope for Improvement in the efficiency of the Indonesian
transportation sector.  In she near future this, together with a mininum  of
improvements to access, will be the sector's main challenges if it is to satisfy the
rapidly growing and diversifying demands of the Indonesian economy.
1.6         Transport expenditures as a share of the country's development
expenditures have increased dramatically from about 12 percent in the mid-1980s to
about 20 percent in recent years, w1i-.:.h makes trasport one of the largest sectors in
the development budget. Allocations for maintenance, in particular for national and
provincial roads have received an increa j. - share of the overall transport sector
budget. GOI has also taken actions to improve tse pricing of transport services and the
sector's regulsory framework. In particular, prices for freight services for road,
maritime and, to a large extent, rail transport, are now set by the market, and almost
all regulations which were hampering developirer of maritime transport have been
removed by two major packages of reforms in . - and 1988. Steps have also been
taken continuously to improve the operational efficiency of Public Enterprises (PEs),
such as in the case of seaports, and the allocation of responsibilities to and within
governmental agencies. Despite these achievements, nmch remains to be done. The
ongoing Bank-financed Highway Sector, First Jabotabek Urban Development, and
Railway Technical Assistance Projects are helping GOI address some of the key sector
issues (paras 1.8 and Annex 1).
C. OamnvEs AND IssuEs
1.7         For the 1990s, GOIs key objectives are to alleviate poverty, promote
agricultural development, foster regional equity, support the private sector, and sustain
the export drive by medium and light industries. Since transport is an input to the
producing sectors, GOI has placed emphasis on the transportation sector as a key
means to attaining its objectives. Investments in transport will be geared to serving the
needs of the productive sectors and improving access in the isolated parts of the
country. These objectives will be pursued through the funding of large expenditure



-3-
programs, fuher improvements in pricing and regulations, and extensive institutional
development.
1.8         There remain many inefficiencies in the sector that have costly economic
consequences. These represent weaknesses in the incentive systems (for example
insufficient road cost recoveiy from truck transport), in the supply of infrastructure
(especially, insufficient quality of construction and level of maintenance of many
ficilities) and in the organizaton, mimagement, and staffing of government agencies and
PEs. GOI has been swate of most of these shortcomings and has tzken substative
corrective measures in recent years, such as the impletentation of major deregulatIon
packages.



-4-
2
THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. IRODUCTION
2.1        in recent ytars, GOI has consisetly placed importance un the
trnportation sector as a key means of promoing economic growth and regional
development. Emphasis wihin the sector has in trn been placed on road transport.
Illustrative of this is the fact tat in Repelia IV, 1984/85 - 1988/89, some 60 percent
of the total transport sector investment budget of Rp 7.1 trillion was directed to road
and bridg4 programs. This has led to major improvements in the quality of the road
network and in road transport services, albeit with some significant problems. A fuller
account of the overall road subsector performance is detailed in Staff Appraisal Report
No. 105't1-IND of May 1992 for the Third Kabupaten Roads (KR3) pnj,ect,
Loan 3490-IN. Ihis report focuses on kabupaten roads, padrticularly in Eastern
lndonesia, but with reference to the road subsector as a whole in order to maintain
perspective. It also includes a brief update (see Annex 1) of progress on the
implementation of the Policy Statemen & Ackon Plan that was fornulated under the
HIighway Sect>r Project, Loan 3133-IND, and serves as the main reference for GOI's
nkiiatives in the sector.
2.2        In view of the assignment of sector management responsibilities in
Indonesia, Bank strategy in the road sector makes a distinction in the focus of lending
operations for the prinary network (national and provincial reads) and those for the
kabupaten roads. Projects that support development of the primary network attempt to
improve road transport incentives and regulations as well as address the more complex
technical issues. The focus under kabupaten roads projects is more on institutional
development, maintenance, and resource allocation at the local levels.
B. Th ROAD NETWORK
2.3        Indonesia's public roads network totals about 260,000 km and comprises
17,700 km of national roads, 34,000 km of provincial roads, 176,700 Ian of kabupaten
and kotamadya roads, 25,400 kn of other municipal roads, and 5,300 km of
transmigration roads. In addition there are unknown lengths of village roads and other
unclassified roads. Road density at 0.14km per km2 of land area is seemhigly very low
but most (about 63 percent) of the network Is in the more densely populated areas.
Road density is 0.33 km per km2 of cultivable areas or 1.4 m per inhabitant. Some
90 percent of the national roads, 75 percent of the provincial roads, and 39 percent of



-5 -
the kabupaten roads are paved; this translates into about 48 percent of the total network
being paved. However, reflecting a tendency for inadequate maintenance, only
45 percent of the national and provincial roads were considered to be in good condition
in 1991.
2.4        Eastern Indonesia accounts for about a quarter (69,000 Ian) of the
country's total road network. The road service index is low at 3.0 km per 1000
population but this is about twice the national average; on the other hand its road
density of 0.09 km per lakm is about a third below the national average. However, road
density in cultivable areas is 0.38 kn per km2 in Eastern Indonesia; this compares with
a figure of 0.33 when computed on a similar basis for the rest of Indonesia. The
network corresponds to the small, widely dispersed pockets of population to be found
in many provinces in the east, with a population density of 126 per hnm2, on the
cultivable areas. Due partiy to its weaker institutions, the road network in the Eastern
region is in generally poorer condition than that in Java and Sumatra and a lower
proportion is sealed. More details on the road network are in tables 2.1 -2.4.
C. KABUPATE ROADS
2.5        Within the road subsector, a major GOI objective is to achieve higher
coverage of kabupaten roads and to raise the stable (good and fair condition) proportion
of the network through a consistent annual level of funding and steady improvements
in the institutional and technical framework for preparation and implementation of
kabupaten road programs. GOI policy places more emphasis now on the outer islands,
a region where the economic returns are lower but still acceptable. To this effect,
substantial measures have been taken by GOI to increase the capacity and accountability
of kabupaten goverments, and improve systems and procedures for road plannig,
design, and implementation.
2.6         Unlike the national road system that has renained stable at about 50,000
km, the classified kabupaten road network has been growing at about 7 percent per
annum during the past 10 years and now totals more than three times the size of the
national and provincial roads network This growth resulted more from absorption into
the classified network of exisdng, unclassified roads rather than from construction on
new alignments. The latter has been limited in the last several years as the emphasis for
all road classes has been on qualiative improvements through the various betterment
projects.
2.7         Kabupaten roads are of lower quality than the national and provincial
roads. It is estimated that only 39 percent are paved and that about 27 percent are in
good condition. The poor state of the kabupaten roads is of concern because of the
resultant unnecessarily higher cost of transport in nrual areas where incomes are lower
ihan in cities, and because of the adverse effects on local development and on personal
mobility. Table 2.5 has further details on the lengths and condition of kabupaten roads
in the project area.



- 6 -
D. ADNJSRTnE  SUWCIU
2.8         Idonesia has a three-tier regional admnistrative system. The first level,
referred to as Daerah Tingat I, conpists of 24 provinces and three special districts
(Jakarta, Yogyakarta, and Aceh), each headed by a Governor. Each province is
subdivided at the second level, or Daerah Ingat 11, into Kabupans (rural districts)
that are headed by a Bupati, and Into Kotamadyas (municipalities) that are simflarly
headed by a Walikota. These second level units in theory have autonomous budgets and
taxation powers but in pracice function as exons of the cetal or provincial
governments. Further administrative subdivision continues along the two streams, urban
and rural. Ibe kabupatens are subdivided in    - camnAans, or district administrative
units, headed . a 1mat. The kecamatans are in turn further divided int Desas, which
are basicall v    - and form the third administrative level, headed by a Kepala Desa.
The paralkc-   the urban side are the kelurahans, headed by a Lurah, and Rukun
Tentaggas and Aukun Wargas, headed by community leaders. In 1992, the regional
administration consisted of 243 kabupatens, and 55 kotamadyas, with Eastern Indonesia
accounting for 77 of the kabupatens.
2.9         Most central government minities have branch offices at the provincial
level (Kantor Wilayah Propinsi, KANWIL). The KANWILs are staffed by central
government officers and their operations are financed by the central goverment budget.
There is also the Proyek Bant   Penangan Jalan Kabupaten (PBPJK) in most
provinces, which is a special unit for providing assistance to local governments on
roads.
2.10        The Directorate General of Highways (DGH) of the Ministry of Public
Works (MPW) is the road agency at the central level (Chart 1), while agencies at lower
levels are the Provincial Public Works Office (DPUP - Chart 3)1/ and the Kabupaten
Public Works Office (DPUK - Chart 4). In principle, DGH, DPUPs and DPUKs are
responsible for national, provincial, and kabupaten roads, respectively. However, the
planning and implementation of maintnce of national roads is now delegated to the
DPUPs. DGH retains responsibility for setting policies, procedures and guidelines
concerning the planming and implemention of all rad progras and assisting and
supervising provincial and local agencies in their use.
2.11        The Diecate General of Regional Development (DGRD - Chart 2) and
the Directorate General of General Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) of
the Minstry of Home Affairs (MHA) also play a subsantial role in the road sector.
With their corresponding agencies at provincial and kabupaten levels, DGRD and
PUOD are, in particular, responsible for regulatng and monitoring the nontechical
asects of central government's grant programs (Inpres) to lower level governments.
They are also responsible for regulating staffing and salaries, and for the appointment
and supervision of provincial and local governments' senior officials.
,I In som lar  povics, epmas pvia agecies hae been establhd fir do vanous
public wo  sectors. In such ases, tetr is a sepamato povinc  road dep_ (DBM).



- 7 -
2.12        Central Governent activities at the lower levels are carried out by
service departnents or "dinas" under the administrative control of the Govemor or of
the Bupati. Technical guidance to the dinas is provided by the next higher level of
government - to the Dinas kabupaten by the Dinas propinsi and to the latter by DGH,
in the case of roads. The Bupati exercises overall control of Government functions in
a kabupaten, particularly the coordination of the work of tbe central and provincial
agencies.
2.13        Staffing. DGH has about 5,000 permanent and tmporary staff, about
1,200 of whom are engineers. Traditionally, many have been seconded to DPUPs.
Recently, DGH has also stated to recruit young engineers and second them to DPUKs.
This is important since DGH can recruit more appropriately qualified people than the
provincial and kabupaten adminons because of the better career prospects that it
offers. There is no reliable estimate of the number of staff working at DPUP and
DPUK level on road works programs, but it is likely to be well above 15,000.
2.14        Training. Technical training of roads staff is mainly the responsibilty
of MPW's specialized roads training section, DIKLAT DGH, that has a close technical
relationship with DGH and from which it receives part of its budget. Some non-
technical training is also provided by MHA to DPUP and DPUK staff. As the road
agencies, under DGH's lead, are becoming more maure, manpower development is
being given increasing attenion. In particular, a major step was taken recently with the
preparation of a five year Kabupaten Road Master Training Plan (KRMTP) which has
defined trang activities tat are responsive to needs and also a detailed
implementation strategy. Implementation of the priority parts of KRMTP is a
component of this project.
E. ROAD TRANSPORT
2.15        Vehice Fleet. Ihere were about 8.5 million motor vehicles registered
by the end of 1990 and about 32 percent (2.8 million) were four-wheel vehicles.
Commercid vehicles-buses and trucks-accounted for 53 percent of four-wheel motor
vehicles with cars and pickups making up the remainder. The fleet has grown rapidly
in the last 15 years, averaging around 11 percent growth between 1980 and 1990,
however at 14.5 four-wheel vehicles per 1,000 population, it is still in the low range.
There were also some 5.7 million motorcycles, as well as a large number of three-
wheel vehicles. The use of motorcycles is widespread at about 32 per 1,000
populaion.
2.16        Eastrn ndonesia accounts for about 8 percent (650,000) of the country's
registered motor vehicles, implying an average of 4 four-wheel vehicles per kilometer
of road compared with about 10 nationally. Trucks and buses, however, accouted for
almost 64 percent of the regional fleet. Further deis are in tables 2.6 and 2.7.
2.17        Traffic.  During 1980-90, road traffic, excluding motorcycles, on
national and provincial roads grew by an average of six to seven percent per annum.
Growth rates were lowest in Java and Bali (6.5 percent) witi higher rates in Sumatra



-8-
(11 percent) and in parts of the outer islands. Traffic levels on most national roads are
between 3,000 and 10,000 vehicles per day (vpd) while the majority of provincial roads
carry less than 3,000 vpd. Available data on traffic on kabupaten roads suggest great
variability in the eastern region, with averages ranging by province from 50 to 200 vpd.
In addition, the share of motorcycle and non-motorized traffic is higher than in other
regions.
2.18        Truddng. Road transport consists of public carrier 'for hire' services
(30 percent) and own-account operations by private sector firms (45 percent) and
Government corporations (25 percent). Trucks dominate freight transport in the eastern
region; there is no railway there and ships are mainly used for inter-island transport.
The majority of for-hire operators own from one to five trucks in the eastern region;
these are typically 5-ton trucks. The ease of entry into the trucking market, the
relatively flexible enforcement of regulations, and the relaxation of tariff restrictions a
few years ago have generated conditions (in particular competition) such that the service
to users is perceived as good and responsive.
2.19        Bus Services. Interurban bus services are mainly operated by the private
sector and are reasonably efficient. On the trunk routes, services are frequent and as
fast as road conditions permit. There is justified concern, however, over safety
standards. Tariffs are regulated but this has generally not been a major problem and
companies compete on quality of service. Bus services on kabupaten roads are
provided by privately owned minibuses. However, the majority of short distance
transport services are probably performed by three-wheeled vehicles (becaks).
2.20        Traffic Safety. Road traffic accidents are a serious socioeconomic
problem in Indonesia. The limited data available indicate about 11,000 fatalities
annually and nearly 50,000 people seriously injured. Although fatality rates seem to
have been declining recently, they are sffll much higher than in most industrialized
countries and within the high range for developing countries. Studies financed under
previous Bank highway projects have identified the major causes as: inadequacies in
laws and regulations regarding vehicle standards and traffic, and deficiencies in the
standards and condition of roads. These problems are recognized and GOI has now
begun to address the most critical road safety issues.
2.21        Road User Taxation. Indonesia applies all main forms of road user
charges and taxes: (a) purchase related (import duty, VAT and, in some instances,
luxury goods sales tax on new vehicles, and ownership transfer tax); (b) ownership
related (annual registration fee); and (c) use related (import duty and VAT on spare
parts, tires, and lubricants, implicit tax element on the pump price of gasoline, and toll
fees). Total Government revenues from road users have not covered total expenditures
on roads except in FY1986/87, despite the substantial level of revenues raised from car
users. Decisions on the structure and level of road user taxes have been made primarily
on grounds of resource mobilization, trade and industrial policy, price stabilization
policies and perceived ability to pay. An inmportant cause of this is that decisions on
the various road user taxes are made by different Government departments, each having
different objectives. While progress has been slower than was projected in the Action



-9 -
Plan, significant steps have been taken recently towards implementing the relevant
provisions of the Policy Statement (see Annex 1).
F. FINANCING
2.22        A relatively large number of fumding programs are used to chann.J
resources to kabupaten roads. They may be funded through (a) earmarked central
govermnent grants for road rehabilitation (IPJK), (b) block grants on a per capita basis
received from central goverment (Inpres Dati 11), and (c) the local governments' own
resources. National and provincial budgets are mainly for betterment and maintenance
of national and provincial roads in kabupatens. Source (c) is often small, and in 91/92
it nationally made up only about 0.6 percent of the total fnancing. Foreign aid is
channelled mainly through (a) for kabupaten roads. On an aggregate level, the centrally
earmarked and allocated IPJK as a source of kabupaten road fiancing has grown from
about 30 percent in 84/85 to 55 percent in 91/92.
2.23        The improvement of kabupaten roads, including rehabilitation and
betterment works, is finar3ed mostiy from the IPJK amual allocations. Currently IPJK,
which is allocated by the Deputy V Office (Regional Development) of Bappenas, is the
only development fund that can be provided (a) in adequate amounts and (b) with the
year-to-year stability that kabupatens can depend on. Part of the consideration in
allocating the funds is to give a higher amount to the outer island kabupatens to
compensate to some extent for their low entitlement of Inpres Dati I grants. An outer
island kabupaten could receive Rp 6-7 billion annually from IPJK, while for a Java
kabupaten it could be as low as Rp 1-3 billion. Bappenas therefore sees IPJK partly as
a device to be used in helping to achieve regional equity (about 27 percent of the IPJK
was allocated to the Eastern Region in 1991/92).
2.24        The fimding of maintenance requirements, especially for routine
maintenance of kabupaten roads, is supposed to be met endrely from local government's
own resources (mostly Inpres Dati II). Inpres I)ati II is mainly an entitlement grant (@
Rp 4000 per capita) that can in theory be allocated by kabupaten governments to any
item in their budget. Typically, about 70 percent of Inpres Dati II is allocated to the
road sector for maint..nance and for betterment projects. However, maintenance
fumding tends to be inadequate; this is probably due to the fact that allocations for it
seem to be more often based on historic trends rather than on the needs of a rapidly
growing network. In addition, in the eastern region persistent underfunding could
continue, due to the low population levels and consequently small Inpres Dati II funds.
2.25        001 has recognized this issue and has taken initiatives that are intended
to increase the funding, and improve the implementation (see chapter IV), of road
maintenance. Currently Bappenas has permitted the use of IPJK for periodic
maintenance. During project preparation it was found that most kabupatens needed to
use about 7 percent of IPJK funds to meet their man ce targets in 1993/94. This
Is a  stainable level of IPJK usage for mainean. In total for the Eastern Region in
1992/93, IPJK accounts for about ree-quarters of the total allocation for kabupaten
roads. ITis is appropriate as it represents the beginning of the treatment of IPJK as



- 10-
a sector fund that can be allocated for either road construction or mantance.
Bappenas intends to explore this option further, as kabupatens develop the ability to
plan and allocate funds efficiently. Further details on kabupaten roads financing and
expenditure allocations are in Annex 2.
G. PLANNG AND BuDGMG
2.26        The main characteristic of the planning, progrmmn  and budgetn
process in Indonesia is its consensus building approach. lhe budgedng process consists
of a set of bottom-up and top-dow, inter/intra governnent conferences (RAKORBAN,
RAKORNAS, and RATEK). Annual road works programs and budgets are prepared
through a series of meetings from about June to November each year at village,
kabupaten, provincial, and national levels to review budget proposals. On this basis,
the road components of the national development budget are prepared and budget
envelopes are announced early January for each of the main fimding programs and
subsequently for each province and kabupaten. Coordination metings are then held to
firm up lists of approved road works. Annex 3 has firther details on the planning
process.
2.27        Various methods are used to assess quanttatvely the economic priority
of proposed road works.  The methods used for pron g mainnance,
rhabilitation and improvement works on national and provincial roads include an
extensive annual data collection and the application of computer programs based, in
particular, on the Bank's Highway Design Model.
2.28        On kabupaten roads, sytematic programming methods are in place only
for rehabilitation works. DGH, with Bank's assistance, bas developed a rural road
planning-programming-budgeting system to accommodae the current GOI annual
planing and budgeting cycle. Road links are evaluated by local kabupaten planning
teams 2X in accordance to stanrd guidelines and methodologies issued by DGH.
The NPV is one of the main criteria used in detrmining a likd's funiing eligibility and
implementation priority. Tbis system was designed for use by kabupaten staff and has
sufficient analytical rigor to ensure that projects selected are justified economically. It
was first applied (stting 1988) to the 75 kabupatens included under the Bank-assisted
Second Rural Roads Development Project and was subsequently apphed (in 1990) to
the entire country.
2.29        A review of the application of ties planning procedures for the KR3
first-year (92193) roads rehabilitaion program was conducted by the Bank in July 1992.
Of the links eamarked for IBRD financing, or almost one-half of the reMibilitation
program, close to 100 percent were properly evaluaed and hbA met the minimum
economic return crteria. However, the same canmot be said about the quality of the
92/93 rehabilitation progrm as a whole becas the data indicate that as much as
2I The kabate t1ems an made up of fior to eight staff dawn from Bappeda I, DPUK, and
Basian Pembangu  (te kbpe haisom unit with MHA). Team membets we given four
week of ful Xm taUni  as wel as occasoa on-the-job tainng.



- 11-
25 percent of the links were either not evaluated, or evaluated but not viable. Sdll, this
does Indicate that significant progress has been made because In the recent past little or
none of the road links would have been evaluated on a sound basis.  The
implementation of this system has altered the traditional practice in the sector by which
the annual rehabilitation programs were primarily made up of l'ks that were selected
on ad hoc basis, unsupported by planning data and evaluation of alternatives. Much
support is still necessary, however, to assist kabupatens in their use and also DGH in
its control and evaluation. Under the project, emphasis will continue to be placed on
encouraging kabupatens to apply the planning procedures to all of their annual road
investment programs.
2.30        Until recently, methods used for preparing maineance programs on
kabupaten roads were incomplete and, in any case, often not applied systematically.
Partly for this reason, the funding of maintenance has generally been inadequate. These
methods have been improved under Rural Roads II and are ready to be applied in a
large number of kabupatens, which will be done as part of the project. It is expected
that, as experience is gained, the current rudimentary prog ing of maintenance will
be improved. Under the project, refinements will be introduced to evaluate life-ccle
maintenance strategies and to select the best alternatives.  The performance of
kabupatens participating in Rural Roads I (Loan 2881-IND) showed that improvements
in both the planning and implementation of maintenance can be realized.
2.31        Also, given that different guidelines and types of control apply to the
various funding sources for the program, there is a some risk of conflicting priorities.
This risk is well addressed for national and provincial roads by the preparation of an
integrated draft work program (Satuan III) which deals with all types of road works,
including maintenance, and all sources of funds. There is not such an integrated
document as yet for kabupaten roads but it is scheduled for development by the CTC
during the implementation period of the proposed project.
H. EXPENDrIIRES
2.32        The expenditure program for the road subsector has reached close to
20 percent ofthe total national development budget. Startng from aboutRp 827 billiona/
in 1984/85, expenditures rose to about Rp 3,684 billion in 1991/92, an increase of
about 23.8 percent per annum over the period in nominal terms. (See Table below).
Expenditures on national and provincial roads have mainly been for rehabilitation and
improvement of the existing network and for mamce. Only a few links have been
added to the national and provincial road network.
2.33        During this period, the expenditures on kabupaten roads have increased
from about Rp 267 billion in 1984/85 to about Rp 1.2 trillion in 1991/92, makdng up
about one-third of the total road expenditure. For kabupaten roads, most of the
expenditres have been for improvement of the network, including upgrading village
a1  Ecuding eXptur an toll rad.



- 12 -
ROAD SCTR ExPENDrIt (84185-92193)
(Current Rp billion)
Growth
84/85 85186 86/87 87'88  88/89 89/90  90/91 91/92  92/93  Rate
(est.) (85-92)
Na'l & Prov'l Road 560  581  565  971   621 1,230  1,524 2,478  2,926 23.7%
District Roads
IPNK           80   88  130  130   222  294   454  691   827 36.1%
Inrs Dad E    155  174  195  200   263  269   249  418   578 15.2%
Odher Local Funds 10    8    2    1    4    3      6    7      2   -
Foreign        22   22   49   54    47   83    43   90    76 22.1%
Totd           iz             m      of  m       z  L      L      61$120%
Grand Total      3   A73  941 E iL     1a12 A.M* Lo   L29  36      am3
roads and roads built under area development schemes (such as transmigration projects)
into the kabupaten road network. The expenditure program for kabupaten roads is
driven by the sted objective of Bappenas to have 55 percent of the network in stable
condition (defined as kn of roads in good and fair condition) by the end of Repelita V.
This is a re-asonable objective as, using Bank approved criteria, the rehabilitation of
about 60 percent of the network could be justified. However, the stable proportion in
KREI kabupatens is now 40 percent; at curent expenditre levels and inplemenaion
rates, it seems doubtful that the stated objective will be attained.
2.34        The overaU expenditure program is of appropriate size, given institutional
and other constraints. The first year roadworks program of the KREI kabupatens
covers less than a half of the total links that are already evaluated as viable. The
kabupatens could implement the program, as it is withn their capabilities, but the
central government lacks the capacity to moniftor and supervise them adequately in the
medium term. A large proportion of the supervision and monitoring for the plaming,
programming, budgeing, and implementation of the annual roadwork progran is
undertaken by two major consulting groups. It is essential for DGH and kabupaten
staff to be able to perform as much of these functions as possible by themselves by the
end of the project period. Hence the project places emphasis appropriately on building
up instittional capacities at all levels.
2.35        In terms of composition, the expenditure progran still displays the
general pattern of kabupatens which is to spend overly on betterment, relative to
spending on maintenance. This pattern of expenditure will not lead to sustainable
development of road ntworks. One option for futre kabupaten road expendiures



- 13 -
demonstrates that by pursuing a "maintenance-first" strategy kabupatens could achieve
a higher proportion of stable networks, for a given amount of funds. This strategy calls
for maintaining all the maintnable (or stable) roads in 4 years (by 1996). This can
be done by increasing steadily the maintamce share of the total road expendiure from
the current 7 percent to about 20 percent to 25 percent, depending on the funding
availability. By adopting this nmalntenance-first" expenditure strategy, at the end of
REPELITA VI 1998/99), the total length of stable networks would be longer than if
maintenance were ignored. This longer stable network would result in VOC savings
of about Rp 330 billion during 1994-99, in terms of net presert values at a 10 percent
discount rate. A more detailed analysis is given in Annex ^
L TECNImCAL ASPET
2.36       Technologies and Design. There is a wide variety of technologies and
design processes used in the road subsector in Indonesia, ranging from the most modern
approaches to obsolete techniques. In general, the approaches used on national and
provincial roads are sound and well adapted to Indonesia's capabilities in terms of
aministration, contrcting industry, and natural resources. The situation is a lot more
problematic for kabupaten roads, where the choice of technology and the designs could
often be much better. For example, penetration macadam overlays are used for sealed
roads in general. This old labor-intensive technology is well adapted to available
resources in many parts of Indonesia but in most cases it is poorly implemented. It
should be used in conjunction with more modern technologies (bitumen emulsious for
example) and better execution methods (regarding stone gradation in particular).
2.37        In general, moreover, designs are prepared on the basis of inadequate
surveys and are often not adapted to site conditions and available materials. Many of
these problems have been taclced, however, and improvements are being implemented.
In particular, detailed tedhnical guidelines for all engineering aspects of road works
(including bridges) have been prepared by DGH and are being disseminated to all
kabupatens. The PBPJKs are now assisting and checking the preparation of designs by
staff of DPUKs. In addition, specifications have been prepared for more modern
technologies (such as bitumen emulsions) and private firms have been encouraged to
invest in production and distribution facilities whenever possible. Furthermore, a plan
for technology development and dissemination has been prepared which will be
implemented under the proposed projec. (para. 4.12).
2.38       Implementation. Much progress has been achieved in the past ten years
in this area for national and provincial roads. All periodic maintenance and
rehabilitation/improvement works are now carried out by private contractors. However,
the quality of construction still remains a concern, mainly because of the weakness of
the contracting industry and inadequate quality control. Also, a 'quality culture' is
only now tking root thdoughout the road agencies. DGH is aware of these issues and
is now addressing them. In this area as in the area of technology and design, problems
are a lot more acute for kabupaten roads despite commendable progress achieved
recently, in particular in the context of RR2.  Most aspects of road works
implementtion have serious weaknesses that too often result in a product of poor



-14-
quality arnd short economic life. Tender packaging is not efficient: contracts are often
for very small works (with a cost below US$250,000) and of a short duration (ree to
nine months in most cases). Also contractors are still too dependent on poor quality
equipment supplied by the public sector. Finally, supervision is inadequate and contract
specifications are often not adequaely enforced.
2.39        Thes problems are now being recognized, especially since DGH and the
DPUPs have begun to play a more substandal role in the preparation and
implementation of kabupaten road works programs. As a result, improvements in
human resources and organization at kabupaten level are beginning to be a priority, and
the need for assistance and supervision by DPUPs and DGH is now adknowledged.
More specifically, the technical guidelines mentioned in para. 2.37 include guidelines
on execution of works and quality control. Better procedures for contracting road
works (including better contractor prequalification procedures and standard bidding
documents) have also been fomulated. One of the main objectives of the project is to
introduce these improvements in the project kabupatens.
J. CONSMUCrION INDUSTRY
2.40        Although local capability has developed significantly in recent years, the
industry is on a whole weaker in the easten region, and especially so for the typical
kabupaten roads contractor. 001 has long recognized the need to improve the
capabilities of domestic contractors. Several studies carried out in recent years have
highlighted the sector's main weaknesses: (a) shortage of skilled manpower and
insufficient organization and technical capabilities of most contractors; (b) poor
conactor selection, cont   adn on and supervision procedures, in general, as
well as insufficient size and duration of contracts; (c) weak support institutions within
G01 and limited role played by the two main contractors associations; and (d) some
inadequacies in the business environment (particularly in the areas of fnance, insurance,
equipment, and standards). GOI has taken actions to address some of these problems
such as setting up and delivering some training programs for the personnel of
contractors and supervision consultants, providing technical assistance to comractors
under several foreign funded projects, including road projects, and improving the
system for licensing contractors. A more comprehensive approach is needed, however,
and this has been the subject of a regular dialogue between GOI and the Bank, to which
the associations of contractors have also contributed. In the short to medium term,
step-by-step improvemens should be sought in the context of specific sectors. The
proposed project includes such improvements (para. 4.24).
K. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPt
2.41        Indonesia has established a significant body of laws and regulations for
the protection of the environment which provides a framework for specific guidelines
and istional development measures now being implemented by sector ministries.
Of particular importance for the inuctre sectors are the regulations on the analysis
of environmental impacts (AMDAL). In recent years, MPW has much developed its
capability to implement AMDAL reguladons with substantial assistance from the Asian



- 1S -
Developme  Bank (ADB) In particular. In 1989 and 1990, a series of guidelines and
directives on the environmental evaluation and control of all types of public works
project were developed in MPW. In 1991, deilled draft manuals for implementing
these guidelines, covering all pha   of the project cycle, were prepared for the road
subsector. In addition, substantial training of staff has been provided to MPW and
DOH. As a result, a sound basis is now available to MPW and DGH for assessing and
controlling the environmental Impacts of road works. Technical assistance will be
provided under the project to help DGR strengthen furlher its section for managing
environ_mel assessmen. Paras 4.33 - 4.39 have furter details on the environmental
assessment process followed in this project.
2.42        Vehicle emission control, including the setting of standards and
implementation of programs form part of GOI's general air pollution monitoring and
controlefforts. With aste providedundertheBank-assisted FirstJabotabekUrban
Development Project, monitoring of vehicle-related air pollution has been iniated and,
on this basis, a naional strtegy for controling vehicle emissions is being developed.



- 16-
3
PAST BANK INVOLVEMENT IN ThE
ROAD SUBSECTOR AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. PAsr BANK INVOLVEMENT
3.1         The Bank has had a substantial involvement in the transport sector of
Indonesia over the past two decades. It has fhanced four maritime transport projects
(two shipping and two ports projects), two railway projects, two fertilizer distribution
projects, and twelve road projects. Bank involvement has been particularly important
in the road subsector, with total lending of abou+ US$1,800 million since 1969,
corresponding, in particular, to disbursements of about US$1,200 million since the early
1980s or about 12 percent of all GOI expenditures (from local and foreign sources) on
the road network. Nine of the road projects have been completed. The Highway
Sector Project (FY90) and the Second Rural Roads Developmett Project (FY88) are
still ongoing, while the most recent project, KR3, has just begun implementation.
PPARs have been issued for the Second and Third Highway Projects in 1980 and for
the Fifth Highway Project in 1989. PCRs have also been issued for the Fourth
Highway Project in 1985 and for the First Rural Roads Development, Highway
Betterment, Jakarta-Cikampek, and Highway Maintenance and Betterment Projects
between 1989 and 1991. The experience under the road projects is briefly reviewed
below.
3.2         All road projects have had broadly similar objectives. They aimed at:
(i) improving the quality of the network through road construction, improvement,
rehabilitation, and maintenance, with the emphasis during the past ten years being to
a very large extent on the last two; (ii) developing the capability of road agencies
through technical support and training of staff as well as through improvements in
planning and progranuning systems, in technologies, and in procedures and guidelines
for preparing, implementing and monitoring road works; and (iii) improving the
incentives and regulations for road transport and their enforcement. The emphasis
given to these objectives differed substantially between projects, however. The toll
road project (Jakarta-Cikampek Project) and the kabupaten roads projects (First and
Second Rural Roads Development Projects) focused on the problems of corresponding
parts of the road network. Ihe other projects shifted gradually from a focus on national
roads, civil works, and DGH organization to a broader concern for the entire national
and provincial road network, detailed improvements in the functioning of all road



17 -
agencies, and to varying degrees, incentives and regulations pertaining to road
transport.
B. MAIN LESSOMF LEARNED
3.3         Civi Works. In general, civil works programs have been implemented
satisfactorily in terms of timeliness but with uneven results In terms of quality of
construction. An obvious lesson has been that projects with road works well prepared
and implementation initiated by the time of loan approval, have gone ahead about on
schedule.  On the whole, the major reason for delays has been that the
planning/programming anu engineering capability of DGH has improved only gradually.
In the Second Rural Roads Development Project, annual planning/programming of
works were initiated well ahead of time every year and aecisiors on priorities confined
to one main review in the context of the budget process (rather than spread over the
entire year with no precise relationship to the budget process) and, as a result, project
implementation has not lagged much behind original schedules. This will be replicated
in the proposed project.
3.4         Quality of construction has been poor in projects which included a large
number of small contracts, coupled with weak implementation arrangements, as in the
First Rural Roads Development Project and in the first maintenance component of the
Highway Maintenance and Betterment Project. Experience in the two follow up
projects (Second Rural Roads Development and Highway Sector Projects) has shown
that with better implementation processes, including in particular intensive supervision,
better results could be achieved. As a result, preparation of the proposed project has
focussed, inter alia, on devising and agreeing with GOI on further improvements in
implementation arrangements. A main objective of the proposed project's supervision
should be to ensure that these arrangements are properly applied by all kabupatens and
the results monitored and evaluated.
3.5        Through civil works programs as well as loan conditions for the projects
that it supports, the Bank has also tried to steer GOI towards a greater funding and
better execution of maintenance. Experience has shown that conditionality by itself
cannot work, mainly because of entrenched habits, especially among provincial and
local governments, and the difficulty of preparing and implementing maintenance
programs satisfactorily. Starting in 1987 with the Highway Maintenance and
Betterment Project, the Bank, therefore, undertook to finance maincenance on national
and provincial roads as well as the technical support a I the supervision needed to
make it successful. This helped GOI increase the funding of maintenance dramatically
and obtain satisfactory results with it. Other factors contributing to success were that
the previous project (as well as an ADB supported TA project) had helped set up better
programming procedures for maintece and that maintenance was the project's main
objective and, therefore, received considerable attention. The experience with the
Second Rural Roads Development Project has confirmed this lesson. It has shown that
increased funding is not sufficient to achieve success; procedures for preparing and
supervising maintenance programs adequately also need to be in place and maintenance
must be a priority of supervisory and kabupaten staff. The proposed project takes



- 18 -
account of this experience: improved maintenance has been made the project's first
objective (para. 4.1), satisfactory procedures are in place, and adequate technial
support and substantial financing will be provided.
3.6        InstIttional and Technical Developments. fThough progress has been
slower than expected, most sector agencies are much more capable tay than they were
in the early 1980s. The main lesson of experience has been that major improvements
of an institutional or technical naure require (a) considerable staff resources over a long
period of time (from GOI and their consultants as well as Bank staf), (b) the
preparation of detailed implemeutation arrngements, (c) confinuous atention by
decision makers, and (d) a flexibie approach so that improvements take account of and
are well integrated into 001's normal systems and procedures. Only a limited number
of objectives can and should therefore be pursued at any point of time and the Bank
should select very carefully the few institutional objectives under any single project.
For this reason, the proposed project's institutdonal objectives have been limied as
much as possible to a few key areas and adequate resources supplied for implementation
(paras 4.154.16).
3.7         The development of human resources through training has been only
partly successfiu. Trainig programs have been implemented, often with delays, but
the impact on the overall institonal performance has been unclear mainly because the
selection of traning activities included in the projects as well as their content often did
not address many of the agencies' priority needs. This lesson has been taken into
account in the kabupaten projects. GOI has agreed to prepare a detailed analysis of the
training needs of kabupaten road staff and to use the findings of this analysis for
imnplementing a comprehensive training plan as part of the proposed project
3.8         Improvements in the Efficiency of Road Transport. Tere are many
parties and interests involved in and concerned with the required improvement
measures. Progress is probably in part being slowed by the need for extensive
consensus building. In view of this, there is a clear need for (a) one agency, probably
the Ministry of Communications, to take a lead role in preparing for and advocating
change, in coordination and consultaaion with oher GOI agencies; (b) continued and
focussed attention on the subject from the Bank's side; and (c) clear understandings
between the Bank and GOI as to the long term objectives in this area and as to
indicators of progress in attaining these objectives. The Bank intends to focus on these
issues during the preparation of the proposed Second Highway Sector Project.



- 19-
4
PROJECT
A. OBIwcInV,
4.1         The principal objectives of the project are to improve the access to the
main economic centers for the agriculture dependent rural population in 51 kabupatens
in seven provinces (all provinces of Sulawesi, NTB, NIT, and Irian Jaya) and to
consolidate the current efforts to strengthen all agencies in the country dealing with
kabupaten roads. More specifically, the project would increase the quatity and quality
of the kabupatens networks by: (a) improving systems and procedures for road
maintenance and ensuring that the maitainable network of all project-assisted
kabupatens (about 12,500 km) is satisfactorily maintained; (b) rehabilitating/improving
the existing roads (about 3,000 Im); (c) improving the capability of staff involved in
the subsector nationwide at all levels; and (d) strengthening institutional arrangements
and improving the technical environment for planning and implementing kabupaten road
works programs, including the adaptation and dissemination of more appropriate road
technologies. The list of 51 project-assisted kabupatens is in Table 2.5, with some
basic data on their road network. The kabupatens were selected by GOI in coordination
with projects financed by other donors. In five provinces out of the project's seven,
the Bank will be the oniy source of foreign funding for kabupaten roads and all
kabupatens of these provinces will participate in the project. USAID is also providing
assistance in the other two provinces.
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
4.2         Contued Bank support to the kabupaten road subsector is needed for the
following reasons: (a) good access is a requisite for most development activities in
rural areas and is important to reduce rural poverty; (b) a sizable part of 001's
development budget is now aimed at improving kabupaten roads and it is important that
these funds be used as efficiently as possible and that the environmental impacts be
addressed systematically; (c) the Bank cr-a provide key assistance to GOI in the
formulation and implementation of institutional and technical improvements at subsector
level, especially in view of GOI's shortage of expertise; and (d) Bank's involvement can
help GOI give high priority to road maintenance and less emphasis to meeting the
physical targets set in REPELITA V for rehabilitation/improvement of the kabupaten
road network.



- 20 -
C. PtojCT DESCRwTON
4.3        The project will have the following main components:
(a)   a road network improvement and maintenance component, comprising:
(i) routine and periodic maintenance of the entire kabupaten road
network as well as rehabilitation/improvement of selected roads in the 51
project-assisted kabupatens over three GOI fiscal years startIng in
1993194; (ii) construction of, and equipment for, workshops and
laboratories; (iii) provision of equipment, spare parts, and supplies; and
(iv) supervision of works;
(b)   a technology adaptation and dissemination component, comprising (i)
development and implementation of adapted technologies, processes, and
products which have potential to improve the quality and the efficiency
and also help reduce the cost of kabupaten road works; and (ii)
improvement in both the quality and efficacy of the labor-based methods
employed in Indonesia, through continuation of the ILO Pilot Scheme
initiated under RR2;
(c)   a training component (part of the Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan
started under the KR3 Project), including detailed preparation and
implementation of priority parts of a nationwide training program for
kabupaten road staff based on a comprehensive training needs analysis;
and
(d)  technical assistance and studies for strengthening further the systems and
procedures nationwide regarding planning, environmental analysis, and
implementation of kabupaten road works, and for helping GOI central
agencies in monitoring project execution.
D. RoAD NErwoRxK IMROvEMT      M ANTEANCE
4.4         Maintenance. Road maintenance in Eastern  lonesia is inadequate due
'to insufficient planning and implementation capacity at local level, and the poor overall
technical fwmework. It has been assessed during appraisal that the current level of
effort is only about 25 percent of what would ideally be necessary to maintain the
network adequately. The Bank's past experience in the roads subsector has shown that
its involvement in all aspects of road maintenance can help considerably to bring about
the major changes that are required (para 3.5 above, and Annex 4, para. 9).
Therefore, the project's civil works program gives priority to maintenance in order to:
(i) ensure that the better procedures and guidelines which have been developed Lider
the Second Rural Roads Development Project and the Third Kabupaten Roads Project
are used early on a large scale and are well monitored; (ii) encourage kabupatens to
increase funding of maintenance (project funds would match their own financing); and
(iii) concentrate the attention and support of the project's GOI staff and supervision



- 21 -
consultants on maintenance. This priority can be measured in terms of the dramatic
increase in the level of effort required from GOI for maintenance activities (paras 4.5
and 4.29). In order to meet these targets, road maintenance expenditures are expected
to increase from 4 percent (compared to 11 percent nationwide) of road expendiures
in 1991/92 to 20-25 percent at the end of the project (Annex 2).
4.5         The road maintenance component will comprise the entire annual
kabupaten road maintenance programs in the 51 kabupatens over the years 1993/94 to
1995/96. It will be carried out in accordance with the current road maintenance
strategy (Annex 4), which calls for intervention on the "good" and "fair" portion of the
network, termed as maintainable. The target to be reached by the third year of the
project is that 90 percent of the maintainable network, i.e., about 12,500 kan, should
be maintained. This target will be met gradually, by 50 percent for the first year and
70 percent fGt the second year. Draft first year maintenance programs for each project
kabupaten were reviewed at appraisal; they are now further developed on the basis of
the methodology presented in Chapter V and with reference to the above targets. At
negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that it would cause each project
kabupaten to (a) prepare its anmual road maintenance program for the fiscal years
1994/95 and 1995/96 in accordance with a methodology and criteria agreed to by the
Bank (Chapter V), (b) submit this program for the Bank's review and comments before
December 31, 1993, and December 31, 1994, respectively, and (c) finalize and
implement this Eprogram taking Into account the comments, if any, by the Bank.
Agreement was also reached that GOI would select subprojects for the maintenance
component of the project in accordance with criteria and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. In particular, subprojects would be included in a kabupaten road maintenance
program prepared as agreed, and designed in accordance with DGH's technical
guidelines. In addition, in order to give a strong incentive to project kabupatens to
meet the above maintenance targets, satisfactory preparation and implementation of
maintenance programs will be a condition of each kabupaten's eligibility for
reimbursements under the project's rehabilitation/improvement component (para. 4.7).
hIplementation of the maintenance programs would be monitored through periodic
reports on the basis of progress certification issued by the supervision consultants
(para. 4.8).
4.6         Road Rehabilitation/Improverent. This component is relatively limited
as a result of the project's emphasis on maintenance (para. 4.4). When equipment and
facilities for force account works are taken in consideration, a larger share of project
financing will go to road maintenance than to rehabilitation/improvement. The 3,000
km of rehabilitation/improvement works will include several hundred sections of roads
in poor or bad condition. This amounts to about 20 km of major works per year per
kabupaten, represening about 40 percent of their rehabilitation program. The roads
will be brought up to mininmm standards based on projected traffic volumes and
topography (Table 4.1); existing alignment will be retained to the exter. possible.
Works will be designed for a ten year lifetime and will include, as required, rehabilita-
tion of pavement layers, shoulders, side and cross drainage and bridges. Draft first
year rehabiLitation/improvement programs for each kabupaten, prepared on the basis of
the methodology presented in Chapter V were reviewed at appraisal. About 14 percent



- 22 -
of works in the first year are expected to be rehabilitation of sealed roads. The balance
are existing gravel, stone or earth roads requiring betterment/upgrading to seal or gravel
standards. A sealed surface is proposed for about 60 percent of the program, the rest
are mainly earth/gravel roads with estinuted traffic potential of less than 100 ADT
recommended for graveling. Only 2 percent of the program would be built to pavement
widths of 4.5 m or more representing usually widening project for roads with more
thman 500 ADT. Pavement width of 3.0 or 3.5 m are proposed for other projects based
on minimum standards for roads with projected traffic below 500 ADT.
Implementation is expected to start during the second quarter of 1993.
4.7         At negotiations, agreement was reached with GOI that it would cause
each project kabupaten to (a} prepare its annual rehabilitation and improvement works
program in respect of the project for the fiscal years 1994/95 and 1995/96 in
accordance with a methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank (Chapter V), (b)
submit this program for the Bank's review and comments before December 31, 1993,
and December 31, 1994, respectively, and (c) finalize and inplement this program
taking into account the comments, if any, by the Bank. Agreement was also reached
that GOI would select subprojects for the rehabilitation/improvement component of the
project in accordance with criteria and procedures (including environmental assessment
and procedures for consulting with project beneficiaries and indigenous peoples -
para. 4.37) satisfactory to the Bank. It was fiurter clarified that the following would
apply: (a) the kabupaten in which the subproject is located needs to have submitted an
acceptable annual maintenance program for the corresponding fiscal year, and
implemented satisfactorily its maintenance program in the previous fiscal year; (b) the
subproject is included in an anmual road rehabilitation/improvement program prepared
as agreed, and has been designed in accordance with DGH's technical guidelines;
(c) the subproject economic rate of return is at least 10 percent; and (d) the subproject
has been submitted to an environmentl screening, assessment and review process,
including consultation with the affected peoples for relevant subprojects, satisfactory to
GOI and the Bank.
4.8         Road Works Programs  Supervision.  Techical quality of work
implementation remains a serious concern. Ihe project will provide full support to the
decentrlized units (51 DPUKs and 7 DPUP/PBPlKs) for the implementation 3f the
annual programs of maintenace and rehabiltaion of kabupaten roads, including
enghiering preparation, conractor prequalification and tender evaluation, quality
control and monitoring, and on-the-job trning of DPUKIDPUP staff in ese fields.
GOI will employ foreign and local consultants for this purpose, some of whom will be
stationed in the provincial centers and others in the kabupaten cenuers to work with
DPUP and DPUK counterpart staff on a daily basis. To facilitate administration and
coordination, the services will be divided into two Field Consultants for Implemenation
(FCI) teams for the Northern (Region D) and for the Southern (Region II) parts, which
will act as the vengineerw fully empowered to supervise the contracts, including
certification of works. The schedule of consltants services is based on (i) detailed
estimates of annual worldoad (on average 1500 contracts per year based on a length of
6km per periodic maintnance or beOtrment contract, and 10 km per routine
maintenance contract), and (ii) saffig requirements by type of works, including site



- 23 -
inspection, travel time and office work. Based on the above, the services would include
about 600 staff-montis of foreign and 12,400 staff-months of local consultants and their
coats would be about 9 percent of the total civil works cost. By category, field
supervision engineers would constiute about 23 percent of the total staff months,
43 percent would be for master inspectors and lab technicians, with inspectors making
up the renminng 34 percent. These consultants should start to mobilize in early 1993
to complete preparation of the first year program. Therefore, the terms of reference
were agreed during project preparation so that contracts could be awarded and started
in the first quarter of. 1993.
4.9         Worlkhops and Laboratories.  New guidelines for workshop and
equipment management call for major repair, servicing and prevendve maintenance to
be carried out in kabupaten workshops facilities. Such facilities, including laboratories
for basic testing of soils and materis, already exist in most of the project kabupatens,
but they need to be repaired and/or upgraded by the kabupatens. Only then will they
receive additional equipment and tools under the project. In addition, 15 new
workshops and 20 new laboratories will be provided in kabupatens where no such
acilities exist, and they will be filly equipped as summarized in Table 4.2.
4.10        Road Constructio  and   tenance Equipment.   Kabupaten
equipment fleets are used pardy to carry out road works by force account and partly to
lease out to contcors who lack certain essential equipment. Performance of these
fleets has been unsatisfactory, mainly due to weak management A set of guidelines for
workshop and equipment management was prepared under the Second Rural Roads
Development Project, providing a practical framework for more efficient management,
including measures to ensure that rental rates of kabupaten equipment fully reflect
ownership and mainteance costs. GOI now intends to implement these guidelines in
all kabupatens and ensure that kabupatens provide sufficient funding for the operation
and mainece of their equipment.
4.11        As an alternative to continue providing equipment to the kabupatens, the
Project attempts to create the conditions for a larger involvement of the private sector,
e.g., lrger contract packages, multi-year contracts, improved procedures for
prequalification and for enforcement of conta  obligations, etc. However, this will
not be possible or sufficient in all the kabupatens, and some equipment is still needed
for carrying out expected works (in particular routine maintnance). Table 4.2 shows
the priority equipment and spare parts requred for some kabupatens, which will be
procured under the project. TIis list was confkmed at negotiations.
E. TECHNLOGY ADNAFAON AON
4.12        This component aims at introducing innovation in techniques and methods
currently used in kabupaten road works (Annex 5). On the Nhifher end, technologies
proposed for adaptation and dissemination to kabupate  include the use of biumen
emulsions, softer grade bimen, graded aggregate paving materials, cold laid bitumen
mixes, soil stabilization, and asbuton. The project will finance an average of about six
trials per province inchlded in the KR3 and KREI projects. Criteria for selecting the



- 24-
technologies to be introduced in each province have been defined, and an action plan
for this introduction including training and monitoring has been prepared ( see Project
file) and will be implemented under the project. On the "softer" end, the project would
support G01's effort to upgrade labor based methods, both quality-wise and cost-wise.
The RD Pilot Scheme was started under RR2, and the proposed project would finance
about 50 percent of the IL0 contract which would remain to be completed at the end
of RR2.
F. TRAINNG
4.13        A nationwide Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (atMTP) was
prepared recently by GOI (para. 2.14). Priority parts of KRMTP, started under KR3,
will be pursued under the project. They include: (i) preparation of training programs
including course design and materials development; (ii) provision of equipment and
supplies for training programs preparation and delivery; (iii) training of trainers; (iv)
delivery of training programs, including in-house training as well as professional staff
training programs which will be contracted out; and (v) strengthening of the institutions
involved in training, including the setting up of systems for training needs analysis and
monitoring and evaluation. The objective is to provide about 620 training sessions (or
150,000 trainee-days) in about 25 priority subject matters to about 6,200 staff over a
five-year period. The first three years of the component were included in the KR3
project. The last two years will be included in the KREI Project. At negotiations,
agreement was reached with GOI that (a) by December 31, 1995, and December
31, 1996 it would prepare and submrit for the Bank's review and approval its annual
program for in-house delivery of training, for the fiscal years 1996/97 and 1997/98,
respectveiy; and (b) finalize and implement this program taking into account the
comments, if any, by the Bank. More details on this component are in Annex 6.
4.14        To assist in the implementation of the training component, GOI will
employ foreign and local consultants. The services will include about 300 staff months
of foreign and about 1,400 staff months of local consultants (of which about 700 of
professionals and 700 of subprofessionals), and would start in early 1993 under the
KR3 project. Only the last two years (1995 and 1996) of this contract would be
financed under the proposed project.
G. TECHNCAL ASSWrANCE FOR INSTIMIIONAL AND
TEC1 ICAL DEVELOPMFr
4.15        Concerned GOI central agencies need support to continue improving the
insdtutional and technical framework for preparation and implementation of kabupaten
road works programs as well as to guide and monitor project execution. Accordingly,
the project would include: (a) technical support and liaison for engineering aspects,
including evaluation of implementation of technical guidelines and specifications, and
for technical audits; (b) general assistance in planning, including further development
of the planning methodologies, arrying out specia studies of road works needs in
underdeveloped areas, analyzing the current situation and issues regarding village roads,
assessing the size of the road netwvrk that kabupatens can economially and financially



- 25 -
maintain and rehabilitate, and assessing the long-term indirect impact of road
rehabilitation/improvement on the environment (for example, through land development
and deforestation); (c) assistance in the monitoring and coordination of project
activities, including the coordination of the separate teams of FCI and training
consultants, the monitoring of project environmental impact, and the preparation of
project implementation reports; (d) support in the preparation of annual road works
programs including, inter alia, the environmental screening of proposed subprojects, the
carrying out of site-specific environmental assessments when required, the systematic
review of subprojects' economic viability, and the extension of planning methodologies
to non-project kabupatens; and (e) support for the preparation of environmental
assessments for the proposed Fifth Kabupaten Roads project.
4.16        For the above purpose, GOI has appointed foreign and local consultants
under a Central Technical Consultants (CTC) team, and assigned counterpart staff (as
described in the Terms of Reference) as an essential component of staffng to enable
achievement of project objectives. The services, which cover both KR3 and KREI,
would be fmanced by both projects (first two years for KR3, and then KREI). The
CTC services were awarded under KR3 to the consortium formed by Hoff & Overgaard
A/S (Denmark) and the Indonesian firms PT Multi Phi Beta, PT Amythas, PT Delta
Marga Kreasi, PT Sigma Penta, and PT Yodya Karya. In addition the project will
include technical assistance for strengthening environmental assessment (EA) capacity
in the new DGH section and Biro KLH and at the provincial Bappedas in Irian Jaya and
Kalimantan (para. 4.39). The EA consultants wiU be hired by October 31, 1993.
Further details are in Annex 7.
H. CosT ESmuIS
4.17        The total project cost is estimated at US$331.3 million, including taxes
and duties of US$30.1 million equivalent. It includes: (a) physical contingencies of
10 percent on the base cost of all expenditure accounts except for equipment where they
amount to 5 percent; and (b) price contingencies of 3.1 percent on the foreign
component and of 5.5 percent on the local component each year throughout project
implementation. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$121.9 million or
36.8 percent of total costs. The project costs by component are summarized in the table
below.
4.18        The base costs including taxes are estimated as of January 1993. In the
case of civil works, estimates are based on updated and adjusted recent unit prices for
similar works. Rehabilitation/improvement works are estimated to cost about
US$40,000 per km. Routine maintenance is estimated to cost about US$1,100 per km.
Periodic maintenance is estimated to cost US$13,000 per km for sealed roads and
US$6,000 for gravel roads. A new workshop is estimated to cost US$170,000. The
cost of equipment for construction and maintenance operations (including vehicles to
be purchased under reserve procurement, para. 4.25), for workshops, and for
laboratories is based on recent bids. The cost of consultant services is also based on
recent contracts. Regarding training, the co~. is based on ongoing similar programs



- 26 -
Project Cost Summary
Am" ak ilion    ...LSlmlilUL.   Forozgn
Local Foa       Tot  Loc FoniP  Total  exchup
A. Road network impovment
Road Wors                 341.9  162.8  504.7  166.8 79.4 246.2    32
Worksops, labortorie        S.2   7.9   13.1   2.5  3.9  6.4        61
Equipment program           3.6  36.1   39.7   1.8 17.6  19.4      91
Subtotal        3              am        j WA  =au 37
B. Tech. Adapt. & Dismin.    5.0   2.7    7.7   2.4  1.3  3.8        35
C. Training Componet         7.5   3.0   10.5   3.7  1.4  5.1        28
D. hWIt/Tech. Develop.       4.5   S.5   10.0   2.2  2.7  4.9        55
Totdal BASELINE COSTS       WLA   au3       aI 3724 &         MA
Physica contingencies      36.6  19.6   S6.2  17.8  9.6  27.4       35
Psice contingencies        36.8  19.2   56.1  12.2  6.0  18.1       33
Total PROJECTrS COSTS      mu   am    auJ  ad4 1L   Wa
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.
both in-country and oveas. Further details on expendtus by comot ae in
Table 4.3.
L F hNNCN
4.19        The proposed Bank loan of US$155 million would finaumn   about
47 percent of total project cost, or about 51 percent net of taxes and duties, represenig
99 percent of foreign cost and 16 perCent of local coSt GOI would finance the
remainig US$176.3 million equivalent, or about 53 percent of  e total estmted
project cost, mainly through anmual budgetay allocaon from the ceral governmen
grant progrmsn, IPJK and Inpres Dati H. The financing of the proposed project is
shown in the table below.



- 27-
PRoJECT FINANCING PLAN
(US$ milLion)
Source of Fmance     Local   Foreign  Taxes  Total
GOI                 145.9      0.3    30.1  176.3
Bank                 33.4    121.6      -   155.0
Total            17&. L21            3L1  3
J. IMTE    NrAIION AND MoNmTwrNG
4.20        The project's civil works will be implemented by the DPUKs in the 51
project kabupatens, assisted by DPUP tchnical staff and technical assstance
consultants. The other project components (provision of equipment, training,
supervision of works, and technical assistance) will be inmplemented by DGH. The
project is expected to become effective in July 1993, but the first contracts were
awarded in January 1993 (para. 4.32). Execution would be completed by December
31, 1997, about 4 years after start-up. The loan closing date is scheduled for June 30,
1998. The implementation schedule, as shown in Annex 8, was confirmed by GOI
during negotiations.
4.21        In addition to the direct implemeion responsibilities menioned above,
the main agencies involved in the project are MPW for technical aspects, MHA for
iniutonal aspects, Bappenas for development planning aspects, and MOF for financial
aspects. The detailed responsibilities of these agencies and corresponding offices at
kbupaten, provincial, and central levels have been defined (paras. 2.8 - 2.12). The
agencies would be coordinated by a committee at Director General level dhaired by
Bappenas. This comnittee would be assisted by a Project Secretiat in coordinating
the preparation of actions to be taken by the agencies as part of project implementation
and in monitoring the execution of these actions. The Project Secretariat would include
Director level representatives of Bappenas, MPW, MHA, and MOF. GOI agreed at
negotiations to maintain the seat for the duraion of the project.
4.22        A Project Implemenion Unit (PU), located in DGH and supported by
MHA (DGRD) for ahnistrative and insutional aspects, would also be needed to
assist, and monitor progress, in project implementation, including preparation of annual
programs, procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures. Mondlly reports
provided by the DPUKs through the Field Consultants for Implementon teams and
the CTC's and training consulnts' monthly reports will provide the basis for
monitoring. Progress on the project will be communicated to the Bank by means of
periodic progress reports, the first one to be due by October 1993. Ihese reports will
include both consolidated information for the total project and individual reports for



- 28 -
each province, to meet the reporting requirements as stated in Annex 9 including
specific monitoring indicators. At negotiations the GOI agreed to maintain the PIU for
the duration of the project. The PIU will prepare a detailed project completion report
and submit it to the Bank not later t:ian six monihs after the loan closing date.
Supervision plans showing Bank staff inputs  as well as GOI contributions are
summarized in Annex 10. These plans were reviewed at negotiations.
K. PROCUREMENr
4.23        The project civil works are scattered over vast areas and although works
will be packaged as explained below (para. 4.24), the size of contracts is expected to
be too small (about US$300,000 on average for rehabilitation/improvement works,
which are the most important) to attract foreign contractors. Civil works will therefore
be carried out by contracts awarded under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures
acceptable to the Bank and open for participation by foreign contractors. All
contractors will be subjected to prequalification under procedures satisfactory to the
Bank. Such procedures are being fmalized for use in the first year works progrmn.
Standard bidding documents for civil works acceptable to the Bank will be used.
4.24        One of the means to improve quality of works is to increase the
efficiency of the contracting process (para. 2.40). To this end, agreement was reached
at negotiations that civil works contracts would be packaged in accordance with criteria
satiifactory to the Bank. Arrangements described here below would be used in order
to (i) attract a maximum of Class A and Class Bl contractors, and (ii) give contractors
an incentive to invest in new equipment through the award of contracts of a longer
duration (para. 4.11):
CONTRACT PACKAGING FOR REHABIUATION/IMOVEMENT WORKS
Minimum Proportion of Contracts
(expressed as a percentage of
the value of all contracts)
Year I    Year2    Year 3
All Kabupatens  (i) Contracts above         30%       50%        50%
Rp 500 million
All Kabupatens  (ii) Contracts with          0%        50%       50%
construction over
one fiscal year
Note: Categories (i) and (ii) above are not exclusive.



- 29 -
(a)   for rehabilitation/mprovuement works, a minimum number of all
contracts would be of a size of Rp 500 milUon (about US$250,000) or
more (so that they can be carried out by Class A contractors); a
minimum would also be of contracts with a construction period over one
fiscal year. Specifics are shown in the table below which defines fte
minimum proportion of the value of aU contracts each year in a
kabupaten to be made of larger and of longer contracts. A first group
of provinces (North Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, Irian Jaya, N.T.T. and
N.T.B.), have already made substanial use of class A contractors, which
is not the case for the second group of provinces (South and South-East
Sulawesi), which need more time to make the adjustment. Therefore for
the first group, the proportion will be calculated for each kabupaten,
whereas for the second group, the proportion will be calculated as an
average over all kabupatens of each province. All other rehabilitation/
improvement contracts will be carried out by Class Bi contractors.
(b)   for periodic maintenance works, packages will be valued above Rp 200
million, so that they are carried out by class B1 contractors; and
(c)   a maximum of 50 percent of all routine maintnce will be carried out
by force account, up to a maximum aggregate amount of US$19 million.
The balance by small private contractors.
4.25        Equipment, spare parts, and supplies will be procured in accordance with
ICB procedures, except for minor items or groups of items estimated to cost less than
US$200,000 per contract, which may be procured on the basis of international
shopping, after a minimum of three price quotations. Items estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract may be procured through off-the-shelf shopping. The
maximum aggregated value of contracts procured through international shopping would
be US$1 million and through off-the-shelf shopping US$0.4 million. Regarding
vehicles (including motorcycles), the existence of import restrictions has led to
considering the purchase of such items under the project as reserved procurement.
Total project cost includes the estimated cost of required vehicles and motorcycles, but
they are to be financed exclusively with local counterpart funds. Hence, at negotiations
it was agreed that GOI would provide adequate budgetary allocations for the purchase
of the vehicles prior to initial disbursement under the project's road rehabilitation
component. Contracts for spare parts, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.3 million,
may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers. Items should be grouped to
the extent possible.  In bid comparison and evaluation under ICB, domestic
manufaturers may be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent or the prevailing
import duty, whichever is lower. Consultanu will be appointed in accordance with
Bank guidelines for use of consultants and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank. Professional training as well as in-house training will be carried out under
procedures and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
4.26        Bank prior review will apply to the following contracts: (i) civil works
above US$2.0 million, (ii) equipment above US$200,000, and (iii) all consultants'



- 30 -
services and professional training. Other comracts will be submitted to post-review,
This will result in a prior review of about 17 percent of all contracts in value or 31
percert of the amounts fmanced by the Bank. To compensate for this relatively low
level of prior review, project preparation has put emphasis on improving the quality of
the prequalification procedures and standard bidding documents to be used for e 11
works. A systematic post-review of civil works will also be carried out on a random
basis during supervision. The experience of such post-reviews under the ongoing
Highway Sector Project has been successful. Training delivery will be carried out In
accordance with a detailed program and cost estimates prepared annually and submitted
to Bank's prior approval (para. 4.13).
4.27        Procurement administration will mainly be the responsibility of the
DPUKs for civil works and DGH for equipment, consultancy services, and training.
Final decisions on awards will rest with the authority designated in the procurement
regulations which define different levels depending on the contract value. DPUKs have
shown under the Second Rural Roads Development Project their capability to carry out
satisfactorily the procurement of works. They will also be assisted by the FCI and the
procurement process will be monitored by DGH and DCRD. During negotiations,
GOI's agreement was reached on all of the above procuremet arrangements. The table
overleaf gives a breakdown of procurement under the project.
L D m, tSM
4.28        Loan funds wiU be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) Civgl Works: 40 percent of net-of-tax expenditures, equivalent to 37
percent of total expenditures;
(b)   Equipment, Spare Parts, and Supplies:  100 percent of foreign
expenditures for directly imported items; or 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory) of locally manufactured items, or 65 percent of
total expenditures for other locally procured items;
(c)   Consultancy Services: 100 percent of expenditures;
(d)   In-house Trainng: 50 percent of total expenditures; and
(e) Professional Training: 100 percent of expenditures.
Disbursements under the project will be made against full documentation of expenditure
except for the following items, for which disbursements would be on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs): (i) civil works under US$2.0 million, (ii)
equipment, spare parts, and supplies under US$200,000, and (iii) training delivery.
Withdrawal applications will be aggregated in amounts of not less than US$100,000
equivalent, prior to their submission to the Bank. SOE records would be made
available to Bank staff as required for inspection during supervision. The schedule of
esthnated disbursements, shown in Table 4.4, is based on the projected work program



- 31
PxOCuusr ARANGEHEWII
(US$
Prcuremnt method /a    Total
Project element                          ICB      LCB      Odher   cost
Road rehabilitationl                     -       143.0     -      143.0
improvement                                     (52.9)          (52.9)
Road maintenance                         -       102.7   19.1&  121.7
(38.0)   (7.0)   (45.0)
Workshops, laborares                     -         3.4     -       3.4
(1.3)           (1.3)
Equipment, spare parts & supplies       24.0       -       1.8l   25.8f
for road worss, workshops,            (20.8)             (!-5)   (22.3)
labs, & training
Consultancy services                     -         -      34.1id  34.1
(31.8)   (31.8)
In-house an-                                       -       2.9j&    2.9
(1.5)    (1.5)
Professional t-                                    -       O3/e   0.3
(0.3)    (0.3)
Total                                        2.
(20.8)   (92.1)  (42.1)  (155.0)
La Figures in pa hes  are the repectve amouns financed by the Bank loan and
include contngencies.
lF Force account.
l International shopping, off4he-shelf shopping, and, for spae parts, direct
congtctg.
Ld In accordance with Bank's Guideis for use of Consultants.
L Under arrag ns satisfactory to the Bank.
Lf Includes US$1.0 million in respect of vehicle purchases against which IBRD will
not disburse.
Note: Due to rounding, totals may not add.



- 32 -
but the proposed profile has been smoothed somewhat. The disbursement profile differs
from the standard one for highway projects (which require some six years for
completion) mainly because the project is limited to three consecutive annual programs
of road works in the project kabupatens. Disbursements are expected to be completed
in about 4 1/2 years. The experience under previous projects has shown this schedule
to be realistic.
4.29        Bank disbursements for road maintenance expenditures would be at a
constant percentage (37 percent) rather than on a declining basis, mainly for
adm;nistrative simplicity in a decentralized enviromnent. However, because of the
increasing annual targets for maintenance (para. 4.5), GOI's required funding of
maintenance will double from about 25 percent of total needs in the project's first year
to 54 percent in its last. Bank's share of funding of incremental mnntenace will
correspondingly decrease from 75 to about 50 percent. Because of the project's short
duration, and the current neglect of maintenance on eastern kabupaten roads, it would
not be realistic to aim at higher percentages. The Bank's disbursement share has in fact
been set at the minimum value expected to give an incentive to the kabupatens to
increase considerably their own allocation of fimds for maintenance as well as adopt
better planning, programming and implementation methods, thereby creating the
conditions for a sustainable effort.
4.30        In order to expedite and facilitate disbursenments, GOI intends to set up
a Special Account in the Bank of Indonesia with an initial deposit from the loan of
US$11 million (equivalent to four months' estimated average loan disbursements). The
account would be maintained in US dollars. Applications for replerishment of the
Special Account would be made quarterly or whenever the Account is drawn down to
50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever comes first.
M. ACCOUNm AND AUDS
4.31        The PIU will have overall responsibility for establishing and monitoring
the use of a uniform proJect accounting system. Financial records and accounts by
subprojects will be retained by the DPUKs based on copies of financial and supporting
documents obtained from project managers and relevant agencies concerned with project
funding, payment and reimbursement. The PIU will maintain accounts for equipment
procured on behalf of the project and for training and technical assistance. The DPUKs
through the Field Consultants for hnplementation will transmit up-to-date project
accounts to the PIU on a regular basis. The PIU comptroller will consolidate all
accounts from the 51 kabupatens into a single project account on a quarterly basis for
monitoring purposes, and amually for audit purposes. During negotiations, agreement
was reached with GOI that: (a) the project's records and accounts, including for the
SOEs and the Special Account, will be audited annually in a timely fashion by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) it will submit to the Bank certified
copies of the consolidated audit reports starting December 31, 1994 for fiscal year
1993/94, and subsequently no later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
In the case of SOEs, the audit report will contain a separate opinion as to whether the
SOEs submitted during each fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal



- 33 -
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
N. REMoAcnvE FINANCING
4.32        Retroactive financing for essential consulting services and some civil
works, not to exceed US$15 million, would be provided under the project for
expenditures incurred after January 1, 1993, and before the date of the loan agreement.
This advance procurement is considered necessary for the project to cover the frst year
program fully.
0. ENVROM TAL AND SOCaAL IMPACr
4.33        Background.  The GOI has an environmental Impact assessment
procedure known as the AMDAL process that is embodied in Public Law 29 of 1986.
Ihis law mandated that an environmental assessment information report was required
for all new developments that would have an impact on the environment. The initial
stage of this procedure includes a screening process that places projects into 4
categories. Category 1 projects, e.g. toll expressways, deffnitely require a full
assessment; this is known as an Andal. Category 2 projects, e.g. new roads, road
upgrade and widening, require either a limited assessment (known as a Pil) or an
Andal. Category 3 projects , e.g. upgrading without widening, require only a Pil, or
are exempt from the process. Category 4 projects, e.g. road and bridge maintenance,
are exempt fom the process. The screening procedures also try to cater for indirect
impacts, but given that road sections to be improved are in general less than ten
kilometers long, the areas where indirect impacts may be felt are limited.
4.34        For KRET, a large number of subprojects fall into categories 2 & 3. The
typical subproject proposal is small, averaging about 6km, and is primarily for
qualitative improvements to existing pavements and will be of short duration. The
project does not involve any resettlement or the building of new development roads.
The local governments would, in keeping with MHA guidelines, be responsible for
compensating people for the minor bits of land that may be acquired if the need arises;
based on the first year program these instances will be rare. The large number of
similar projects and their very small scale should be borne in mind when considering
the nature of potential environmental impacts.
4.35        Impac Imssessment. The procedure followed was similar to that of the
KR3 project. Due to the number of road sections involved, GOl decided to prepare a
sectoral environmental impact assessment (EA) for the project. This approach to
screening and assessment was considered the most efficient way to (i) concentrate
project assessment resources on the most enviromnentally sensitive, or fragile, project
areas; and (ii) help develop sector wide procedures and critera to be adhered to for
EA purposes. The EA included a review of the legal framework for environmental
assessment in Indonesia and also an analysis of the major impacts to be expected from
project works. It was concluded that the area and extent of impacts will be limited and
that on balance, the overall effect on the environment for projects not effecting "fragile



-34-
areas" would be of minor significance. Fragile areas are defined on the basis of the
REPPPROT maps, which are maps prepared between 1982 and 1988, for the planning
of trausmigration projects. These maps cover all of Indonesia and are widely
recognized as one of the best data sources on the natural environment of Indonesia.
Fragile areas include in particular conservation areas, forest reserves, wetlands, coastal
zones, and any area with potential erosion problems.
4.36        For any specific element of the environmental assessment in which some
potential for an impact was identified, management and or monitoring measures were
included in the project design and specification documents. According to the EA, this
potential for an impact is expected to occur in less than 15 percent of all improvement
works proposed by the kabupatens for Bank financing. For those works, the EA
recommends that site specific environmental assessments be prepared in accordance with
GOI's environmental regulations. This would help to ensure the use of sound
environmental practices at design and works implementation stages. The Bank has
reviewed the EA and found it to be acceptable.
4.37        Indigenous Peoples. As part of the preparation of the EA, GOI has
carried out a program of public consultations with the indigenous and other peoples
likely to be affected by the project. The consultation process involved the design and
implementation of a series of sixteen public meetings in project kabupatens; most of the
meetings were held in Irian Jaya. The format of each meeting involved an outline of
the project scope and objectives, using an appropriate link included in the project as an
example in most cases. The meetings.were anranged through the kabupatens and
chaired by their senior staff. NGOs and local town and viliage peoples were invited
to all meetings and attendance and participation in the meetings was good; minutes of
the meeting were made and a record of attendance was kept The responses at the
meetings were documented and are set out in the EA report. The consultations were
well received by the local people and their questions were concerned mostly with direct
benefits under the project, such as employment and the potendal for improving the
marketing of surplus agriculture production. There was strong support expressed for
the project as people felt that it would be beneficial to them. The consultation process
followed the requirements of 0D4.20 and it will continue to be carried out in future as
the relevant subprojects are being prepared. The GOI assured at negotiations that,
consistent with the spirit of 0D4.20, it will continue protect the rights of indigenous
peoples affected by the project. GOI agreed also at negotiations to establish an
independent team by December 31, 1993 to monitor the effects of the project on the
indigenous people; the composition and terms of reference of this team will be
satisfactory to the Bank.
4.38        During project preparation, it was decided that there is no need at this
point in time for an Indigenous People's Action Plan. This is mainly because (i) project
implementation is not expected to adversely affect indigenous people; (ii) there will be
little or no contact with isolated peoples as the selection procedures tend to steer
projects toward the more built-up areas; (iii) again, due to the focus on using existing
road alignments, there will be minimal disruption of activities, and no restriction of
access to traditional lands; and (iv) GOI by including the consultation process in project



- 35 -
preparation has taken steps to incorporate the preferences of indigenous peoples into the
design process. The DGH environmental section would be res,..onsible for the
consultation program as well as designing any action plans if and when the need arises.
It was agreed at negotiations that the Bank would: (i) be kept informed continuously of
the outcomes of this process as part of the normal reporting on subproject preparation
(paras 4.5 and 4.7); and (ii) periodically review and comment on the design and on the
results of public consultation meetings that are to be held by DGH in project
kabupatens. The objective will be to ensure that the support and participation of
indigenous peoples is being actively pursued for the relevant road subprojects.
4.39        Institutional Strengthening. During project execution, Bank monitoring
should focus on the implementation of the institutional strengthening program as it is
important that DGH itself be able to carry out and review EAs. Emphasis has been
placed under the project on strengthening the procedures for EA, including consultation
and the development of Action Plans, both in DGH and in the provincial Bappedas; this
was agreed at negotiations. The project therefore includes adequate assistance to GCI
for contnuation of the EA task and also to strengthen the institutions involved. Terms
of reference for this assistance have been prepared by GOI and are acceptable to the
Bank. Annex 11 has more details on tlie environmental assessment and also on the
consultation process.
4.40        Pinally, under the KR3 project, agreement was reached on several
environmental actions which have been repeated and consolidated with the KREI
institutional strengthening focus. These include agreement that the criteria and
procedures on the basis of which rehabilitation subprojects would be selected would
include the following: (a) road works in the draft program submitted annually to the
Bank wil be screened so as to identify those on road sections not previously open to
four-wheel traffic and providing access to fragile areas; (b) such road works will be
submitted to a site specific environmental assessment in accordance with GOI's
environmental procedures; (c) only road works whose EAs have been found acceptable
by both GOI and the Bank will be eligible for financing; (d) any road works financed
by the Bank will be designed and implemented in accordance with agreed environnl
codes of practice and this will be regularly monitored; (e) no road works will be
eligible for Bank financing if they provide access to conservation or forest reserve
areas 4/ in any project-assisted kabupaten, or to protected forest areas in the 12
kabupatens where induced development may have significant indirect impacts; such road
works will be screened out as part of the annual program preparation procedures.
41 As defined by ffie REPPPROT maps.



-36 -
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. SuMOJECrS SELECrON
5.1         The project's methodologies and procedures in selecting subprojects are
the same as those used for KR3, the previous kabupaten roads maintenance and
betterment project. In accordance with these established methodologies and procedures,
roadworks programs will be prepared annually by kabupaten governments and
coincident with GOI's budget preparation process.
5.2         Maintenance Works Program. Subproject selection guidelines for
kabupaten maintenance works program were prepared in 1990.  The technical
Guidelines are intended to help prepare maintenance programs in kabupatens. They
include the following steps in each kabupaten: (a) updatng the inventory of the
potentially maintainable network, (b) p.eliminary identification of road sections that
require routine or periodic mahtnance, and (c) preparation of separate periodic and
routine maintenance work programs and detailed cost estimates. These are then fed into
the budget decision making process. The Field Consultants for Implementation will
assist kabupaten staff to prepare and implement their maintenance programs and
DGH/DPUPs to monitor progress. The Central Technical Consultants will assist DGH
to assess the quality of the guidelines and formulate improvements.
5.3         As most kabupatens have not given sufficient emphasis to maintenance
in the past and are therefore not adequately prepared to efficiently implement the large
maintenance programs at are required on their networks, it has been agreed that the
maintenance carried out under the project would be increased in three stages until
90 percent of the maintenance needs (as defined by the use of the guidelines) are
satisfied by the project's third year. The agreed targets are appropriate and progress
in achieving them will need continuous attention from both GOI and the Bank.
4
5.4         Major Works Program. As agreed between the Bank and GOI since
1990, Kabupaten staff are required to complete a series of standard inventory, survey,
analysis, and planning forms, which, in conibination with the use of tailor-made
calculation tables, would enable them to obtain the NPV/lun of each road work
proposed for IBRD and IPJK financing (details are given in Annex 3). Only the
proposals with a positive NPV at 10 percent discount rate are eligible for financing
regardless of funding sources, a condition consistent with national planning guidelines.



- 37 -
5.5         In some cases where there is little traffic and population but where
agricultural and other development potential exists, use of the standard evaluation
models becomes inappropriate. Special procedures have therefore been developed
which combine some elementary regional planning with the use of a site specific
economic evaluation. Such procedures may be used in a few cases (less than 10 percent
of the project cost) during project implementation.
5.6         These selection methodologies and procedures, based on the past
experience, are sound. These guidelines are simple enough for satisfactory and
consistent application by kabupaten staff but retain analytical rigor in ensuring that
selected projects are economically justified. Most kabupatens have been able to follow
the procedures and complete physical surveys on a substantial part of their networks and
prepare annual investment programs to a generally acceptable standard, though they
have been supplemented by Consultants mainly to monitor the process and audit the
data. Further improvements will be needed in the area of better integration of
schedules and format of documents into the budget preparation process, incorporation
of environmental assessment of a roadlink into the early plaming stages, and calibration
of planning and evahuation of maintenance works. Most of tnese improvements will be
carried out over the course of this project.
5.7         Since kabupatens' capacity to follow the procedures and that of
DPUPs/DGH to assist and check the results still need to be strengthened, the project
will provide local and foreign consultants to help at various stages, monitor progress
and quality of output, fine tune the evaluation models and procedures, and help DGH
take full charge of the entire system. These services will be provided by the Central
Technical Consultants.
B. BENEEIIS AND BENECIARS
5.8         The project is expected to reduce transport costs significantly in rural
areas in 51 kabupatens in eastern Indonesia. This is an area ffiat is characterized by its
extended territory, large development potential, and uneven distribution of population,
resources, and economic activities. The project area in general is the poorest region
of Indonesia (para. 1.4).
5.9         The project would help mobilize rural trade, increase the pace of rural
economic growth, and promote equitable regional development. Its most direct
economic benefits include (a) savings in operating costs of motorized and non-motorized
vehicles; (b) savings in the personal time cost of travellers (20 percent of total VOC
savings on average); and (c) savings from modal transfers and generated traffic
(12 percent and 8 percent, respectively, of the total traffic after road improvement).
Private users such as individual car drivers and firms using transport on their own
account would capture these benefits directly. The benefits accruing to Indonesia's
trucking and inter-urban bus industries, which are compeftiive, would be passed on to
producers and consumers through lower prices of goods and services.



- 38 -
5.10        The project would provide support for GOI's decentralization policy by
strengthening the in-house planning and implementation capacities of the kabupatens and
of central and provincial agencies to assist and supervise kabupatens. The project will,
in particular, (a) reinforce the planning-programming-budgeting system that has been
installed after Rural Roads II; (b) introduce measures to improve construction quality;
and (c) institute road maintenance on a sustainable basis.
5.11        The project will continue the ILO Pilot Schemes initiated during Rural
Roads II by improving the quality and efficacy of the labor-based methods employed
in Indonesia. The project is expected to create about 4.7 million unskilled worker-days
per annum for various types of major works, another 1.5 million for routine
maintenance and 1.3 million for periodic maintenance. In all, the project will generate
about 22.5 million unskilled worker-days during its implementation. As a result, about
Rp 78.75 billion will be paid out in wages, much of which is expected to be earned by
the poorer section of the population.
C. ECONOMC RE NS AD  SEIIVITY TEI
5.12       ITe Major Works Component. The first-year major works planning
survey covered 2,089 km of roadlinks in 51 project kabupatens, of which 1,596 kn are
evaluated as viable with an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) above 10 percent. Since
the planning procedures have been applied by kabupatens in the past three years, a pool
of viable projects, which, due to lack of funding in the past are yet to be funded, has
been created. Combining the viable links identified in previous years, the total length
of viable links stands at 6,614 km, of which 1,271 kan (152 links) are proposed for
IBRD fmancing.
5.13        The total ERR is calculated based on the project data of 152 individual
project proposals submitted to Bappenas and DGH by kabupatens. In each proposal,
data on project length, cost, NPV per kn, among others, are presented. With these
data, the present value of the benefit of each proposal was calculated and amordzed
over 10 years (the assumed project lifespan), using a standard benefit growth rate that
was used by kabupatens in calculating the NPV/Ikn (Java and NTB kabupatens:
4.5 percent; other: 7.5 percent). The sumnarized cost and benefit streams of
individual proposals are then used to calculate the ERR. Roadworks' construction cost
was increased by 15 percent to reflect the cost of project supervision and technical
assistance. Although the ERR is estmated only for the project's draft first year
program and some changes may occur as data auditing and eligibility review are still
in progress, the high quality of the links proposed for the first year implemention can
be considered as a good indicator of the returns of the entire project.
5.14        The NPV and ERR and sensitivity tests of the project's first-year major
works program are detailed in Annex 3. In the base case the NPV of vehicle operating
cost (VOC) and time savings is about Rp 65 billion, with an ERR of 22 percent. These
estimates are sensitive to possible variations in the costs and benefits streams. If time
saving is excluded, the ERR will drop to 16.3 percent, and NPV of savings would only



- 39 -
be Rp 32.5 billion. If maintenance were ignored, the ERR would drop to 14.8 percent,
while the NPV of savings would be reduced drastically to about Rp 10 billion.
5.15        The Maintehace Component. Since the economic evaluation of the
maintenance works per link was not dstermined at kabupaten level, it was estimated by
Bank staff using a simplified evaluation model based on conservative assumptions. The
model assumes that the average road roughness level (IRI) of the links proposed for
routine maintenance in year 0 is 8 and for periodic maenance is 9, and also that
periodic maintenance would lower the roughness by 2 levels. Following a standard
road deterioration profile, a roadlink with no maintance would deteriorate to an IRI
of 14 and thus need reconstruction in the 6th year. On the other hand, a link that
receives periodic maintence every 4 years and routine maintenance in the intervening
years would on average last 15 years, as well as provide significant vehicle operating
costs' savings to users. More details on the assumptions for roughness levels and VOC
savings are in Annex 3.
5.16        The benefits are the VOC savings associated with the difference of road
roughness based on ADTs observed. An annu traffic growth rate of 7.5 percent is
used in the evaluation. In addition, standard costs for routine and periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation are used also ( see Annex 2). All the maintenance works costs are
increased by 15 percent to take supervision and technical assistance costs into account
fully.
5.17        At this early planning stage, detailed data were only available for about
250 links (totalling 1,035 kIn) that were proposed for the Project's first-year periodic
and routine maintenance program. These sample links repreknt about 25 percent of
the links for first year periodic maintenance and 9 percent for the routine mainenance.
Ihe NPV/kam was calculated on these sample links to serve as rough estimators of the
economic viability of the maintenance component. The NPV/kn at a 10 percent
discount rate for the 4 year cycle of periodic and routine maintenance is about Rp 50
million. The rate of return is about 40 percent.
D. Rs
5.18        The main project risks are related to the implementation of the planning
procedures and the funding of mainenance. Pardy because of the limited capacity of
the agencies in charge of assisting and supervising kabupatens the implementation of the
planning procedures is inconsistent in some kabupatens and road investments are not
properly prioritized. To reduce the risk, Bappenas would continue to play a strong
coordinating role and project implementation reviews would be held at regular intervals.
As for maintenance, some project kabupatens may be reluctant to increase their
allocations of funds for maintenance as much as needed to fulfil project targets. In
response to this, Bappenas has agreed to the use of Inpres funds for road maintenance
if needed to meet a kabupaten's target. Also, project mantenance targets have been
carefully designed and annual eligibility conditions establihed for individual
kabupatens.



.40 -
6
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         Agreement was reached with the Borrower during negotiations that it
win:
(a)   cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual road maintenance
program for the fiscal years 1994/95 and 1995/96 in accordance with
methodology and criteria agreed to by the Bank; (ii) submit this program
for the Bank's review and comments by December 31, 1993 and
December 31, 1994, respectively; and (iii) finalize and implement this
program  taking into account the comments, if any, by the Bank
(para. 4.5);
(b)   cause each project kabupaten to (i) prepare its annual rehabilitation and
improvement works program in respect of the project for the fiscal years
1994195 and 1995/96 in accordance with methodology and criteria agreed
to by the Bank; (ii) submit this program for the Bank's review and
comments by December 31, 199 and December 31, 1994, respectively;
and (iii) finalize and implemc it this progran taking into account the
comments, if any, by the Bank (para. 4.7);
(c)   select sub-projects for the maintenance and rehabilitation/ improvement
comnponents of the project in accordance with criteria and procedures
(including those for the enviromental assessmnent and public
consultation) satisactory to the Bank. (paras 4.5, 4.7 and 4.38);
(d)   by December 31, 1994, and December 31, 1995, prepare and submit for
the Bank's review and comments its anmnal program for in-house
delivery of trahing programs for the fiscal years 1995/96, and 1996/97,
respectively, and fialize and implement this program taking into
account the comments, if any, by the Bank (para. 4.13);
(e)   maintain the project secretariat, established under KR3 for the duration
of the project; (para. 4.21);
(t)   maintain the Project Implementation Unit, established in DGHI, to
monitor progress in project implementation including preparation of



-41 -
annual programs, procurement, physical achievements, and expenditures
(para. 4.22);
(g)   package civil works contracts in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank (para. 4.24);
(h)   allocate funds for the purchase of vehicles (para. 4.25);
(i)   protect the rights of indigenous peoples, and establish an Independent
monitoring tm (para 4.37);
(j)   strengthen DGH and Provincial environmental assessment capacity,
including consultation with indigenous peoples (para. 4.39).
6.2         Prior to the initial disbursement for work's completed under the projects
rehabilitation component, GOI will provide adequate budgetary allocations for the
purchase of vehicles (para. 4.25). In addition, the satisfactory preparation and
implementation of maintenance programs will be a condition of each kabupaten's
eligibility for reimbursements under the project's rehabiltaion component (para 4.5).
6.3         Based on the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$155 million equivalent to the Republic of Indonesia for 20 years, including 5
years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.



-42-                             ANNEX 1
ISSUES, POLICY STATIEMENT AND ACTION PLAN
Subsector Issus
1.         There are many interrelated institutional and technical weaknesses impairing the
effectiveness of public expenditures on roads. The following are below desired standards;
(a) maintenance, especially for kabupaten roads; () selection, preparation, and implementation
practices for road works, which result in a product of poor quality and short economic life;
(e) use of outdated road technologies, especially at kabupaten level; and (d) attention being paid
to environment impacts in the planning and implementation of road works. Many of these
problems, particularly at the kabupaten level, can be traceo to shortages of skilled technical staff
and inadequate traiinig. In addition, although road transport is generally responsive to demand,
there remains significant scope for improving the overa1l efficiency within the subsector and for
raising the standard of road transport services, improving safety and reducing advete
environmental impacts.
Poricy Statement and Action Plan
2.        In October 1989, the Government finalized a Policy Statement and Action Plan foi
Road Transport (PSAP) to provide a framework for progressively improving efficiency and
standards in the subsector. The Policy Statement addresses all key policy areas in the subsectot
and set out adequate guidelines for reforming or further developing: (a) transport sector policy
formulation and planning; O) laws and regulations on road traffic and transport; (c) road user
taxation; (d) control of vehicle weights and dimensions; (e) the main subsector institutions;
(1) planning and execution of road works; and (g) road safety.
3.         The associated Action Plan set out the detailed steps which GOI proposed to take
in the following three years to implement the Policy Statement. These included: (a) finalization
and submission to Parliament of a new draft road traffic and transport law and preparation of
draft implementing regulations; (b) decetalization to provincial and local governments of
responsibility for adminisring and enforcing certain road traffic and transport regulations;
(c) preparation of measures for the institonal development of DGLC and of regional,
provincial, and local road traffic and transport units; (d) execution of various sector planning
studies, including conduct of a national origin/destination (OD) survey; (e) formulation of a
strategy for reforming road user charges and the implea.iitaion of key first steps, particularly
for the Motor Vehicle Tax; (t) preparation and implementation of new regulations on vehicle
weights and dimensions and of measures to improve enforcement; (g) improvement of procedures
and guidelines for the planning, programming, design, implementation, environmena
assessment, and monitoring of works on national and provincW roads, and (h) preparation and
implementation of selected key measures to improve road safety.



-43-                             ANNEX 1
4.         GOI has initiated action in all areas covered by the Plan and, although some of
them require complex preparation and consultation, there have been some substantial
achievements. First, progress has been made in establishing an improved regulatory framework.
A new road traffic and transport law was signed in May 1992 and is expected to become
effective in September 1993, by which time the implementfng Government Regulations and key
subordinate decrees will also have been revised and finalized. In 1990, a Govermnent
Regulation provided the legal basis for decentraizing responsibility for administering certain
road traffic and transport functions and the process of implementation has commenced.
Improved regulations (in the form of a Ministerial Decree) were introduced in 1990 to enable
road transport of ISO containers to be conducted more efficienty and safely, and improved
general regulations on vehicle weights and dimensios have been prepared for introduction under
the new road traffic and transport law. Measures for their implementation and enforcement are
now being formulated and progress has been made in defining a network of key "freight' routes.
5.         Second, some progress has occurred, although more slowly than expected, in the
area of road user charges. The rates for the annmu motor vehicle tax were increased
significantly with effect from January 1992, although in real terms the increases were much
smaller as the previous rates had applied since January 1988. Early in 1993, an inter-ministerial
technical team completed and circulated for approval a draft decree-intended for issue by the
Minister of Home Affirs-that provides for significant further increase in the rates for
commercial vehicles and, equally importanly, for efficiency-promoting improvements in the
structure of the tax. Moreover, since the Policy Statement was adopted, the Government has
thrice increased the prices of automotive diesel oil (ADO) and gasoline. Following the most
recent increase (in January 1993), the pump price of ADO (Rp 380/liter) inclusive of VAT
(10 percent) is approximately equal to its efficiency price (based on a crude oil price of
US$18/bbl), while gasoline is now priced significantly above its efficiency price. More
importantly, the President, in presenting the 1993/94 budget, announced that the Government
had concluded energy should be treated as an ordinary commodity whose price should be set at
international market levels and, in particular, t  subsidies for oil fuels must be abolished.
6.         Third, there has also been satisfactory progress as regards improving the planning
and execution of road works. In particular, improved procedures and guidelines have been
introduced for road works planning and programming and guidelines have been formulated for
environmental impact assessments. Fourth, GOI has also taken or at least initiated action on
other elements of the Action Plan. The national origin-destination survey has been carried out
to acceptable standards and important studies regarding land transport plaming and the
institutional development of DGLC are now nearing completion. In the field of road traffic
safety, substantial funding will continue to be provided in the budget to remove some of the
country's worst safety black spots. In addition, a modern system for accident data reporting is
being implemented and systematic proposals for implementng other road safety improvements
are now being prepared.
7.         Since its Issue, the Policy Statement has been the main reference for GOrs
initatives in the subsector and it remains an adequate guide for continued progress in future
years. Bank dialogue on it is being carried out primarily within the context of the preparation
of the proposed Second Highway sector project. However, this project is consistent with the
overall objectives by its focus on institutional strengthening and on efficiency in the supply of
Inrsructre.



-44                                ANNEX 2
REVIEW OF KAUPATENS' REVENU
AND ROAD EXPENDITURE
1.         A  typical kabupaten's
budget could be summarized as shown
in the adjacent Box. The percentage    S      D      UU As U10201 a
numbers in the table are the averages                 R    WP
from   a  sample  of 22  eastern                                     _ _ Eldit_
kabupatens, (see footnote 1).  The      cury-w*r          1.02
revenue of the kabupaten is derived     Local 8aewu (PAD)   6.12   Aftru0l
from two sources: Own Revenues,          Srd TaxesIlevee  11.42
which  consist of local revenue          O,etO RtutU Subsidto* 40.02
("PAD")  and  shared  taxes/fees                   Gt8 41.2   b w.OXt
lug..  a1  I 1ox0
("Bagian  Bagi Hasil PajakfBukan           Ztl        sa. S
Pajak"),  and  Subsidies  and             Sub-tOtal    I7
Development Grants ("Sumbangan'         TOtl             100.02  Total 100.02
and "Bantuan Inpres").   The Own        lud0u4t           S.02       9.0X
Revenues  raised  by  kabupatens
typically account for 10percent to
25 percent of the total for kabupatens in eastern Indonesia (the sample averages 17.5 peren).
There is a long list of local/shared taxes/fees on kabupaten budgets (over 50 items), but none
is significant except the Property and Land Tax (PBB), which is a tax shared by kabupaten,
province, and the Center with the sharing formula set by the Center and collecdon by the
province.l/
2.         Funds are provided by the Central government per authorized positions mainly to
maintain the kabupaten government apparatus. Sometimes provincial governments also
contribute additional funds, such as "Governor's Instructions Grants", to kabupatens for
administration needs. Personnel and administrative funds make up about 40 percent of total
kabupaten revemle. President's Instructions Grants Cm the form of Inpres, such as Inpres Dati
II and five to six sectoral Inpres), which are allocated by the Central government, make up most
of the rest of kabupaten rever.ue (41.5 percent). Inpres Dati II (or IK 2, kabupaten general
development fund) and IPJK (Inpres Peningataan Jalan Kabupaten, kabupaten road development
1,/ Detailed budgets of a saplo of 22 kabupatens in KalSel, NTl, and Irian Jaya, referred as "easten
kabupaens", were analyzed in dths reiew. The percentage figues cited are based on the avrage
of two years data (91/92 and 92/93), in order to catch tho offect of difereco between the budgeted
and acual amounts  Less detailed data of 91/92 road expenditure in nine eastem provinces
kabupates and that in all the kbupatens in Indonesia a also used in this analysiA ll the data used
are included in the poject files.



-45 -                            ANNEX 2
fund) are the dominating items of the Central Grants (18 percent and 54 percent respectively in
the Grant category).
3.         Kabupatens are not encouraged to carry over a budget surplus (SIAP, which makes
up just about 1 percent of the total budget). Normally any surplus on Centrally allocated funds
Is to be remitted to the Center. Kabupatens are not allowed to have a budget deficit; thus as
general practice kabupatens must use conservative revenue estimates to determine their
expenditure in the beginning of a fiscal year. Later if collected revenue exceeds the original
expectation, ths expenditure is then adjusted accordingly. At the year-end the kabupaten's budget
is still balanced, but both revenues and expenditure would be at a higher level. Although the
amount of the Central and provincial administrative and routine subsidies may increase in the
mid-year, that of Centrally allocated development grants seldom change throughout the fiscal
year.
4.         In addition to the above revenues, there is a small budget Item (equivalent to
9 percent of the total kabupaten budget) called "In-and-Out" (U.P.K.), which is mostly petty
cash collected from government officials (such as Association fees) for incidental and designated
expenses, or "pass-through" development grants for projects managed by Central Ministries.
Tbis account is balanced annually.
5.         Most kabupaten revenues are earmarked for specific types of expenditure, with
exception of the Own Revenues and Inpres Dati HI. Inpres Dati I is block grant allocated on
a per capita basis annually. During the first four years of REPELITA V (89/90-93/94) this grant
nationally has been increased 28.5 percent per anLum in nominal terms or about 20 percent in
constant terms; this year (92/93) it amounts to Rp 4000 (US$ 2.00) per person. This grant can
be used for routine and capital expenses in any of the 18 kabupaten sub-sectors. It, however,
cannot be used for building monuments/stadiums, or for land acquisition, or for payment of
commercial loans.
6.         The Govermnent of Indonesia currently accords priority to development of the road
sector. Between 84/85 and 91/92 (REPELITA IV and first three years of REPELITA V), GOrs
road expenditure rose from Rp 826 billion to Rp 3,684 billion (excluding toll roads) at an annual
rate of 23.8 percent, far outpacing the annual GDP growth of 13.4 percent and inflation of
6.6 percent in the same period. As a result, the share of road expenditure as a percentage of
GDP has grown from 0.9 percent to 1.7 percent (see table on pg. 46).
7.         Road development (betterment/rehabilitation) and maintenance consume a large
portion of the total kabupaten revenue. In the sample kabupatens, it accounts for 27 percent of
the total kabupaten expenditure on administration, routine and development, or 53 percent of
total development expenditure. The expenditure is financed mainly through three sources: IPJK
(83 percent), Inpres Dati H (13.6 percent), and Own revenues (3.4 percent). Foreign aid road
projects are normally channelled through the IPJK channel. Nationwide IPJK made up
57 percent of the total kabupaten road expenditure, Inpres Dati H, 35 percent, and all the rest
(Foreign aid plus own sources: 8 percent).
8.         The IPJK grant is a road development fund allocated by the Central Govermment.
During the first four years of REPELIIA V this fund has been increased at an annual rate of
46 percent in nominal terms, or 38 percent in constant tems. This fund is designated primarily
for betterment and rehabilitation, but kabupatens under the Third Kabupaten Roads Development



EXPDTR  AND FINANCING SOURCES OF THE HIGHWAY SECWOR (1984/85-19923)
(Currelnt Rp billion)
Grewt ltex --- ._1._-
1984/85  1985186  19S6/87 1987188  1988/69  1989/90  1990191 1991/92 1992/93  (84/85  (86189  1964183   1986189  1991192
_at .)  .91r92) -91)92)
atouial I PrNoilal toad
Mat_tenane.               141.0   154.1   164.7   258.7   187.7   313.0   448.7   543.4   614.8   21.92 44.31        25.21    23.U      22.n1
B ttemuent                218.0   176.0   146.9   380.1   210.7   558.0   650.7  1,066.0 1,412.8   25.51  71.71      38.92    45.42     43.01
am ometruettoa            101.0    85.5    99.9    34.1      6.6    20.0    78.6  137.0   290.8    6.51 163.35       16.01     1.61      6.32
aridg  tplsoenet           30.9    40.4    19.9    63.2    38.5   158.0   140.6   260.7   237.6   37.11 93.92         5.52    12.82     11.32
TAIS4. .up-./E yat.rtala    69.0   125.4   133.6   234.9   175.4   181.0   205.0   410.7   370.3   29.01 32.62       12.31   1U n       16.62
WB1              559.9   581.4   565.0   971.0   620.9  1,230.0 1,523.8  2,47.6 2,926.3   23.71 556X.
Central G0M Poo  (AMI)   S49.6   308.1   164.0   140.0   100.6   361.9   675.5  1,101.5 1441.35   17.81 122.11       62.42    29.42     44.41
ASD I                      86.0   100.2    97.0   121.3    48.5   119.3   II1.S   168.6   168.0    9.71 51.51        15.7S     9.71      6.82
Iip                                                            -    73.8   205.6   269.7   347.6   67.62 98.11        0.01     6.01     11.12
rPPnw                     122.3   173.2   304.0   709.7   471.6   673.0   524.9   917.9 1,249.1   35.42  24.82       21.62    54.91X    37.X
SUD?SL           559.9   581.5   565.0   971.0   620.9  1,230.0 1,523s.  2,477.7 2,926.2   23.71 56.62 67.n      65.42     67.32
Distrit load*
iPJI                       60.1    87.5   120.0   130.0   222.4   294.2   45S.7   691.3   626.5   36.12 45.n2    30.02    45.32         57.n2
npree tati It             155.1   174.1   194.9   e00.1   262.5   269.2   248.9   411.7   577.6   s5.22  16.72       56.1x    41.41     34.62
Other Local ruads          9.5      7.8     2.0     C.6      4.1     S.2     5.5      7.3     2.2   -3.7  21.22      3.62      0.52      0.62
foefts                     22.1    22.3    49.0    54.0    47.2    83.0    43.2    89.3    7.5   22.12 22.82          8.32    12.82      7.42
SuTaL            266.S   291.7   375.9   384.7  536.2   649.6   751.3 1,205.8  1,U1.8   24.01 31.01 32.3S    34.61         32.72 1OS1
Grand Tta                   826.7   873.2   940.9 1.355   1.15.1  1.69.6 2.751 S.6"3.5 4*408.0   2S3.6  47    10            1001       1002
foralmn                   144.4   19.5   353.0   763.7   519.0   75S.0   58.1I I. 00.4  1.324.6   32.02 24.n 17.52    40.32X        27.32
Tell load'
Ceutral c001 und.          36.7     7.5     0.2     0.4   309.5   167.0   235.8   139.0   102.4
Jas brpe                   45.1    40.0    88.4   112.4   163.7   178.3   11.8$    6.5    61.2
lor.gn                     36.1    28.2    46.0   121.4
SUBTOTAL         119.9    75.7   134.6   234.2   473.2   345.3   349.6   19S.5   163.o
Grad  tOW                  946.6   94.9  1,075.5  1,569.9  1,630.3  2,224.9 2,624.7 3,879.0 4,371.6   22.32 33.    10012         1o00  1001
Domestic                  766.1   7  2   676.5   704.8  1,111.3  1,466.9  2,056.6 2,671.6  3,247.0   20.62 37.2t 0.92         65.92 74.01
oreia                     80.5   2; 7   399.0   865.1   519.0   758.0   56S.1 1,007.4 1,324.6   27.61 24.7 19.11             34.12 26.01
GIP                      91,500  98,300 108,000 128s,00  147,400  172,100 196,000 221,30O 247, 500   13.41  14.52
Road ft. as. Sbar of GDP    0.92    0.92    0.91    1.1%    0.86    1.11    1.21    1.n       1.82
inflation (en)             3.62    3.72    8.82X   6.3       6.61   SS.    8.01   10.01             6.62



-47 -                            ANNEX 2
Project (KR3) are also allowed to use it for periodic mainten . The criteria for allocating this
fund are complex. It tries to take into account the existing road networks as well as development
needs of each kabupaten; but an overriding objective is to achieve horizontal equity: remote
and less populated kabupatens are given far more IPJK than the ones that are relatively
developed and have larger population bases (therefore they are entitled to more Inpres Dati II
grants). On per capita basis the 92/93 IPJK ranges from below Rp 1,000 for kabupatens in
Lampung and Java Barat, to above Rp 10,000 for the ones in Kalimantan and NIT. In
particular, Irian Jaya kabupatens received over Rp 15,000 per head.
9.        Inpres Dadi II (K 2) is the second major source of fund for road development and
maintenance. It provides for only 14 percent of the road expenditure of the sample kabupatens,
but this represents about 48 percent of the total IK 2 these kabupatens received. Nationally,
however, kabupatens reported spending about 72 percent (91192) of the IK 2 on roads (rhe
reason the sample kabupatens spent lower poeuions of IK 2 on roads is that they are all large
recipients of IPJK). About 70 percent of it is used for road development, with the remaining
30 percent for road maintance (similar to the sample kabupatens, 67 percent for development
and 33 percent for maintenance).
10.        Own Revenues generally are a marginal source for road expenditure. The national
time-series data indicated that this source has never exceeded 5 percent of the total kabupaten
road expenditure (consistent with the sample kabupatens of 3.4 percent). Some miscellaneous
spending on roads is not included in the above figures, such as a ro2d built through a
ransmigration project, or an area development scheme. In general these miscellaneous
expenditures are small.
11.       To complete the total picture of road expenditure in kabupatens, Central and
provincial governments' spending on national and provincial roads in kabupatens should be
counted. Although the lengths of these roads are short compared to kabupaten roads, it should
be noted that these are all the major strategic links that are traveled most frequently and built to
the highest standards. The construction and maintenance of these roads are generally the
responsibility of provincial Public Works and its branches in kabupatens (Cabang Dinas), with
the Central Government controlling the planning and budgeting. Although kabupatens have litte
say on Cabang Dinas' work,2/ the spending by national and provincia governments amounts
to 54.6 percent of the total road expenditure within eastern kabupatens. IPJK, even after takdng
into account the spending of national and provicia govenments, stll provides for a large share
of road expenditure (40.7 percent). IK 2, however, descends to only about 5 percent (see table
on pg. 48). All the remaining sources, having taken into account of spending on national and
provincial roads in kabupatens, are too small to count.
12.       Because of their small population, the combined IPJK and IK2 per capita spending
on roads in the eastern kabupatens is higher than the national average (Rp 9,532 vs. 5,568). On
top of that, national and provincial governments add another Rp 12,052 per capita (spending on
ZI GOI has retly decided to downgtade Cabag Dinas, a stuctr unit in the govemment appara,
to a funimonal uit that has only temponry atus. be itnion is in the futui Cabang Dias staff
will be re-assiged to kabuptns PUs and povinc  PUs, and the contuctio of national and
provinci roaas will be undeak  by ih povincip a PU, and ma ace will be done by kabupatens,
with budget and tecimcal guideles pwovided by the Cane.



-48-                                       ANNEX 2
TorAL RoADS EXPENDITURE IN KREI KABUPATENS
91/92 (Rp mln)
Sote1 Roea 2EpiKaitura
NattPro Roada inrtab       2 onRod                     .0alrovP./c iaPro sX.
TM  cmim.                                Was"   VW'%  U&2=.  Toz"  &WV's  U* . .
IN          21,707   14,107  13,601   6,844   4,771   2,093  13,391    20,255  18,142  2,093  47,962  32,268  13,694
WT          2as493   21,093   7.402   4n778   3.2S2   1.523  34,316     39,094  37,566  1,532  67,389  38,662  8,927
6u1Ut        32,663   18,023  14,638   3,458   2 095   1,563  18,1iM    21.589  20,226  1,363  54,252  38,251  16,001
SulTaT       42,490   34,884   7,606   3,330   3,330      0  14,266     17,596  17,596     0  60,087  52,480  7,606
PulTra       20,583   14,329   6.256      0      KA      NA  18,624    18,424  18,424    PA  39,209  32,953  6,254
SulSel       28,787   17,813  10,974      0      vA      v   4S,199    46,199  46,199     NA  74,986  64,012  10.974
Iran Jay*    71,737   60,583  11,154   3,389   2,437    952  43,550    46,939  45.987    952 118,675 106,569  12,106
TOTAL     253,464  180,833  71.631  21,819  15,885   5 934 188,477    210.296 204 362  5,934 462,760 383 195  77,565
71.62   28.42          72.81   21.22                     91.92   4.12           3.22  16.82
54.62                    4.72                  40.7S
ImONESIA         a       VA      MA 420,784 297 029 123.757 691,370  1,112,156 968,399 123,757    NA     Rh      NA
76.6S   29.42                    88.92  11.12
Exhibits rotal 1.r eapit* ependiu on road. (eoludin satiallproviloid roads) 
Total g    toPree.es 4 9,5321
Total iudoa .      a 4 5,568.
Total National Ipr a Dati II allocation of 91192: Bp 581,201 aillion;
p.rott sieUt an roades 72n.4
national and provincial roads), to make the total road expenditure in these kabupatens Rp 21,584
per head.
13.           There are several emerging issues.  Matching of development and maintenance
funds is a cause for concern. The IPJK grans are intended for development. Funds for
maintenance, especialiy those for routine maintenance, are from Iopres Dati Il and kabupaten's
own resources that have little reflection on maintenance needs of the road networks. For equity
reasons Bappenas wishes to give more funds to eastern kabupatens in order to compensate for
their low Inpres Dati II entidement, but since this fund can only be used for development, many
eastern kabupatens that receive large IPJK fund may have difficulty matching the maintenance
funds with the rate of road development. Some reform on IPJK to make it a general sectoral
fund seems to be desirable.
14.           The KREI project financing in the 51 kabupatens will cause a net increase of their
road spending by about 20 percent. In general these kabupatens should be able to absorb this
increase of funds. The first year roadworks program of these 51 kabupatens can only cover less
than a half of the total links that are already evaluated as viable, and about 60 percent of the
networks in these kabupatens need to be rehabilitated. Moreover, since the establishment of the
kabupaten road planning-programming-budgeting system, road planning and Implementation
capacities at kabupaten levels have been significantly strengthened. The real problem is not
whether kabupatens can absorb this increased funds, but whether they are willing to fully follow
the new system for all roads regardless of funding source, and whether the central government
has the capacity to monitor and supervise the spending.
15.           Currendy ir          and KREI kabupatens a large proportion of supervising and
monitoring work on plaL   _, programming, budgeting, and implementation of the annual
roadwork program is undertaken by two major consulting groups (CTC and FCI), which would
disappear if there is no follow-up projects once KR3 and KREI are completed. Most kabupatens
outside KR3 and KREI receive very limited technical support in establishing their planning-
programming-budgeting and implementation systems.



-49 -                            ANNEX 2
16.        Another Issue that needs attention is that only about 50 percent to 55 percent of the
IPJK links in KR3 and KREI kabupatens have met standards agreed by IBRD (the links that have
been surveyed and evaluated and have ERRs over 10 percent). The rest are either not studied
(some of whicht may be obviously viable so that kabupatens skipped the survey and evaluation),
or are evaluated as not viable. Links financed by other sources, especially by Inpres Dati 11, are
largely not studied. Granted that the planning system is still new to kabupatens and more efforts
are needed to increase the proportion of links that are properly evaluated, it is still reasonable
to expect a much higher proportion of the financed links should be "eligible."
17.        Nationally kabupatens spent 90 percent to 95 percent of road budgets for
development, and the residual for maintenance, a pattern that is similar to what was reported in
RR2. This pattern of spending may not lead to sustainable development, because roads, due to
lack of maintenance, faml apart almost as fast as the rate at which the new roads are built. A
simplified simulation model is used here to demonstrate that, under a fixed amount of budget,
adequate maintenance spending could steadily increase the length of 'stable" network, without
reducing the total length of the network (see table on pg. 51). To reduce the uncertainty, only
6 years of road expenditure (until the end of REPEL1TA VI) is simulated. It assumes that,
following historical trends, the total available funds for kabupaten roads would be the current
IPJK, plus 70 percent of Inpres Dati II, growing at a real rate of 10 percent per annum until the
end of REPELITA VI (a sensitivity of 20 percent is also tested, see lower panel of the table on
pg. 51). It futher assumes that a road with adequate maintenance will last for 15 years, without
it 5 years. Two scenarios are simulated: (1) Development with adequate maintenance, or,
"ma1ntenance-pfrst* development Scenario, following which the maintainable roads would be
fully maintained by year 4 (from currently 25 percent), and from the 5th year onward, available
funds would be used first for routine and periodic maintenance; then, to maintain the networks
growth at 1 percent per annum, i.e., about 1,800 km of new roads would be built each year, and
all the remaining funds would be allocated for rehabilitation; and (2) Ihe status quo Scenario,
in which case only about 25 percent of the maintenance needs would be met; then the use of
the remaining funds would follow what is in scenario (1), i.e., to build 1,800 km of new roads
and all the rest for rehabilitation.
18.       The road depreciation factor plays a major role in the final results. It is assumed
that the roads without maintenance would last about 5 years, then each year on average 1/5 of
the stable roads would depreciate, yielding an annual depreciation factor of 0.2. The roads with
adequate maintenance are assumed to last about 15 years, yielding a depreciation factor of 1/15,
or 0.07. To be realistic, it is further assumed that the low level of depreciation rate of .07
would only be reached gradually (in the third year), to take into account the fact that roads that
are not maintained properly in the past (before year 0) would fall apart sooner than 15 years.
19.        Taking the same inital positions and with the same assumed amount of funds
available for the two contrasted scenarios, the simulation model demonstrates that by paying
sufficient attention to maintenance, by year 6 (the end of REPELITA VI) the total stable roads
would make up 66 percent of the total network, about 10 percent higher than the without proper
maintenance scenario (48 percent). In year 6 the total length of the stable roads in the
"Maintenance-first" Scenario would be 125,000 km, about 18,000 km longer than that in the
"Status quo" Scenario. These additional kilometers of stable roads would be achieved without
additional funds.



- SO -                           ANNEX 2
20.        The benefits to the economy of the additiona amount of stable roads that would
otherwise be In unstable conditions are significant. Given that the average VOC savings of
major works (which is essential to bring a road from an umstable to a stable condition) is about
Rp 83 million per km with a project lifespan of 10 years, the amorized annual saving would be
about Rp 13.5 million per km. The gains from the difference in the length of stable roads
between the two scenarios are calculated in the table on pg. 51; and for the first 6 years the NPV
of the gain is about Rp 328 billion, or US$ 160 million in today's prices and exchange rates.
21.        The savings of pursuing a "Maintenace-first" strategy result from two factors:
(i) maintenance cost is far lower than rehabilitation and new construction [see assumption (3) of
the table on pg. 511; and (li) short-lived roads are far too costly to replace. In the "Status quo'
Scenario, given the assumed total funds, if roads can last only 5 years then the rate that roads
are falling apart would be almost as fat as the rate the roads are reabilitated. This is the most
devastating cause that would greatly slow down the increase of the stable portion of the network.
22.        Given the assumptions used, a sensitivity analysis is in order. If the lifespan of a
road with proper maintenance is only 10 years instead of 15 as assumed, the total benefit would
be halved, down by 23 percent to Rp 253 billion; this is still a sizable gain.
23.        A different expenditure growth scenario (funds growing at 20 percent per annum)
was also tested, and it yields a higher NPV of Rp 384 biDlion for 6 years. These simulation
models demonstrate that in order to achieve a more efficient thereby sustainable development,
adequate attentions must be directed to road mainea. By gradually raising the maintenace
funds share from current 7percent to about 20 percent to 25pacent of the total road
expenditure in 95196, a large economic gain would be realized by Indonesia.



-S1 -                                   ANNEL 2
ADEQUATE MAINTENANCE vS. CURRENT PRAmCrIE: NEr BEENnS
(Constant Rupish)
Scerario 1:                          Scenario 2:
Maintenance Driven Develomuent        If Current Practice Continues
C Rep.V 3 C     REPELITA Vl    3      C Rep.V 3 l     REPELITA VI 3T
(92193)  (94/95)                     (92/93)  (94/95)
Exaenditure crows at 10: Unit YR O   1   2   3   4   5   6    TR0   1   2,             3   4   5   6
tStable Networks Length1- 000 KM  72  74  79  87  97  110  125         72  74  79  84  90  98  107
lTotal Funds Availablel - Rp bIn 1482 1630 1793 1972 2169 2386 2625    1482 1630 1793 1972 2169 2386 2625
1. Maintenance Routine - 000 KM       29  52  71  87  97  110                18  19  20  21  23  24
Rp btn       69 124  171 209 232 264               43  45  47  50  54  59
Periodic - 000 KN        6  10 14   17  19  22                 4   5   5   5   6   6
-Rp btn       126 227 314 383 425 485                98  102  108 115  124 135
[Funds Left for Bett.1  - Rp mIn    1435 1442 1486 1578 1730 1876         1489 1646 1817 2004 2208 2432
2. New Construction    - 000 KM       1.8  1.8  1.8 1.8  1.8  1.8           1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8
- Rp btn      180 180 180 180 180 180               180 180 180  180 180 180
3. Rehabilitation      - 000 KM        15  1S  15  16  18  20                15  17  19  21  24  26
- Rp bIn     1255 1262 1306 1398 1550 1696         1309 1466 1637 1824 2028 2252
4. Road Deterioration:
Stable =* unstable     - 000 K    14  11  10   9   6   7   8            14  15  16  17  18  20  21
Depreciation factor              0.2 0.15 0.12 0.1 0.07 0.07 0.07      0.2 0.2  0.2 0.2  0.2 0.2 0.2
EXHIBIT:                        C Rep.V 3 C     Repelita VI    I      t Rep.V I t     Repelita VI    3
Maintenance Ueeds    - Rp bin       195 351 486 592 657 749               141  147 155  166 179  194
Funds for Msintenance - percent      12K 20K 25K 27K 28K 29K               9X  8X  8K  8K  7K  7X
Stable Portion       - percent 40X 41X 43K 47K 52K 59X  66X           40X 41X 43X 45X 49X  52K 56X
................... ......................................... __....__..____.__......................._._........
Dif'ce of Stable KM  - 000 KM 0.0 -0.6 0.8 3.1 6.2 12.2 17.9
Net Gain:            - Rp btn    0  -8  11  42  83  164 242
NPV of Net Gain Years 1 to 6 (Rp bin):   328
Exienditure arows at 20X: Unit YR0    1   2   3.4 .| 6                R O   1 _ 2           4   5   6
CStable Networks Lengthl- 000 KM  72  76  85  98  116  142  173        72  76  84  95  110  128  151
[Total Funds Availabite  - Rp bin 1482 1M  2134 2560 3073 3687 4425    1482 1778 2134 2560 3073 3687 4425
1. Maintenance Routine - 000 KM       29  53  76  98  116  142               18  19  21  24  27  32
- Rp bLn       69 127 183 236 279 342                43  46  50  57  66  77
Periodic - 000 KM        6   t1  15  20  23  28                4   5   5   6   7   8
- Rp btn      126 233 336 433 512 627                98  105  115  131  151  176
[Funds Left for Bett.1  - Rp mtn    1583 1774 2042 2404 2895 3456         1637 1983 2395 2885 3471 4171
2. New Construction    - 000 KM       1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8          1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8  1.8
- Rp btn      180 180 180 180 180 180               180 180 180 180 180 180
3. Rehabilitation      - 000 KM        17  19  22  26  32  39                17  21  26  32  39  47
- Rp bin     1403 1594 1862 2224 2715 3276         1457 1803 2215 2705 3291 3991
4. Road Deterioration:
Stable >  Unstable     - 000 KM   14  11  10  10   8   9   12           14  15  17  19  22  26  30
Depreciation factor              0.2 0.15 0.12 0.1 0.07 0.07 0.07      0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2
EXHIBIT:                        C Rep.V I t     Repelita VI    I      t Rep.V I t     Repelita VI    3
Maintenance Needs    - Rp btn       195 360 519 668 792 968               141  150  166  188 217 253
Funds for  aintenance -percent       11  17X  20K  22  21X  22K          8K  7X  6X  6K  6X  6K
Stable Portion       - percent 40K  42K  46K  53K  62K  76X  91K      40K  42X  46X  51%  59K  68K  80K
Dif'ce of Stable KM   - 000 KM 0.0 -0.6 0.8 3.3 6.8 14.2 21.9
Not Gain:            - Rp btn    0  -8  11  44  92  192 296
Sun of Net Gain Years 1 to 6 tRp bin):   384
.. ....    ........ .   .....................................................................................................................  ................
ASSUMPTIONS: (1) Road lifespan - With adequat maintenance: 15 years
Without adequate maintenne: 5 years
(2) Unit Cost (Rp mtn/km) - gg41jnm    Periodic   Rehab,    New
-2.4       22         85       0
(3) Adequate Maintenance - Periodic every five years, routine every year; and the full
maintenance would be achieved in four years:
year 1: 40KX year 2: 70K, year 3: 90K; and year 4: 100X
(C) Current Practice - Only 25X of the maintenance needs are met.



-52 -                           ANNEX 3
SUMMAlRY OF PLANNING PROCEDURES FOR ROAD
IMPROVEMENT AND ECONOMIC EVALUATION
1.         Equipping kabupaten governments with adequate in-house technical capacity is a
cornerstone of GOI's decentralization strategy. In supporting this strategy, Bank has assisted
GOI agencies in developing a kabupaten roads planning-programming-budgeting system (PPB)
to coincide with the existing GOI budgeting process which is sequenced by a set of bottom-
up/top-down inter-/intra-governmental conferences (RAKORBANG, RAKORNAS, andRATEK-
see page 59 for the glossary of terms used in the planning and budgeting process). This system
has two components: (i) simplified economic evaluation methodologies to enable kabupaten staff
to do adequate planning surveys and link-by-link evaluation in preparing annual roadwork
programs; and (Hi) technical procedures/guidelines to carry out the project/program preparation
work. The system was intensively tested during the Second Rural Roads Development Project
and was nationally adopted since 1990. It was used in preparing amual roadworks programs
of the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project and this project (KREI).
2.         The government agencies involved in executing the system are the kabupaten
planning teams within DPUKs, provincial project units (PBPJK) under DPUPs, and central
agencies such as DGH and MHA. The kabupaten team has four to eight part-time professionals
from Bappeda TK II and DPUK, with 15 staff-months anmually allocated to carry out basic
plaming survey, engineering survey/design, and other work in formulating annual roadworks
programs. Most team members have been given a four-week off-duty training; on-the-job
taining is also provided on an ad-hoc basis. PBPJK is a full-time project management unit,
consisting of four to seven professional staff. It is intended to serve as 'project officer' and a
link between the Center and kabupatens. PBPJK's role will be strengthened by gradually taking
over CTC (Central Technical Consultants) routine supervision and monitoring functions (see
below). Ihe focus of PBPJK's training is being shifted towards this end.
3.        In view of the situation that the kabupatens's capacity to implement the procedures
and that of central monitoring capacity still needs strengthening, this project will continue to
provide local and foreign consultants (Central Technical Consultants - CTC and Field
Consultants for Implementation - FCI) to monitor the progress and supervise implementation of
works programs, fine tune the evaluation models and procedures, and help GOI take full charge
of the entire system.
A. EVALuAnON MODELs Am PLANNG PROCEDuREs
4.         A detailed description of the planning methodologies can be found in Annex 3 of
the Staff Appraisal Report of the Third Kabupaten Roads Development Project (KR3). The
simplified evaluation models contain the following components: (i) estimating the unit road user
cost; (ii) assessing traffic composition and development; (Mi) determining traffic design class;



-53-                                   ANNEX3
(iv) adjusting for maintenance requirement; (v) aggregating the results into "look-up tables"; and
(vi) costing. At present only major works (betterment and rehabiitation) were evaluated by
kabupaten staff. Economic evaluation of maintenance works per link has not been done at
kabupaten level. The model is being developed by CTC.
5.           A more detailed description of methodologies can be found in the project file
"Planning Activities under IBRD Rural Roads 2: Methodology." In summary, the evaluation
models have the following characteristics:
(a)   discrete categories of road condition, each associated with roughness and speed
assumption, are used to assess VOC/time (Sample VOC/Time saving table for low
terrain is shown in the table below);
ECoNOaIC ROAD USER Coms  AmD SAviNGS
pick-up pick-up         light mediumh          car/ Veighted
N3   kias.rshl  bw   truck  Jak tukl vra
.......- VOC and Time Cost at Roughness 6, Terrain 0-3--------
VOC (exct. TC)     181.4   156.1  215.4  206.9  355.3  428.2  180.0
I'eCost             18.6     8.0  49.3    8.0    8.0    8.0   9.4
vOC (inct. TC)     200.0   164.1  264.7  214.9  363.3  436.2  189.4
TC/Totat VOC       9.3X     4.91  18.61   3.7X   2.2X    1.81  5.01       7.6"
OuterJsIstndsi
WAHVSe Codst        29.5    12.7  78.1   12.6   12.6   12.6  14.8
VOC (inct. TC)     210.9   168.8 293.5  219.5  367.9  440.8  194.8
TC/Totat VOC       14.0X    7.51 26.61   5.7X  3.41   2.9   7.61X        11.41
.------- VOC and Time Cost at Roughness 14, Terrain 0-3--------
VOC (exct. TC)    511.4   428.8 677.9  638.3  1031.4  1228.1  479.4
#Wlm Cost           84.0    36.0  222.0   36.5   36.0   36.0  42.0
VOC (inct. C)      595.4   464.8 899.9  674.8  1067.4  1264.1  521.4
TC/Totat VOC       14.1i    7.7X 24.71   5.41   3.4    2.81  8.11    11.31
Outer Ilands-,
Time Cost        133.0    57.0 351.5   57.0   57.0   57.0  66.5
VOC (nct. TC)     644.4   485.8 1029.4  695.3  1088.4  1285.1  545.9
TC/Totat VOC      20.61   11.71 34.11   8.21   5.21   4.41  12.2X    16.61
-- VOC and Time Cost Savings from roughness 14 to 6, terrain 0-3--
Java:
TlieSV              65.4    28.0 172.7   28.5   28.0   28.0  32.6
VOC SV (icm. TS) 395.4   300.7 635.2  459.9  704.1  827.9 332.0
TS/VOC SV          16.51    9.31 27.2X 6.2X   4.01   3.41  9.81    13.21
OWter Island:
Time SV            103.5    44.3 273.4   44.4   44.4   44.4  51.7
VOC SV (inct. TS)  433.5   317.0  735.9  475.8  720.5  844.3 351.1
TS/VOC SY         23.91   14.0X 37.2X  9.3X   6.2X    5.3X  14.7X    19.2X
Exhibit:
weight factor       0.5      0.2   0.1    0.2    0.0    0.0   0.1          1.0
V 0 - Vehicle Operating Cost; TC - Time Cost; SV - Savings; TS - Time Saving.
(b)   standardized  sumptions are used regardg (i) taffic composition and passenger
load observed on kabupaten roads; (i) benefits from generated traffic and modal
transfer (8 percent and 12 percent, respectively); (iii) traffic growth by region



-54-                             ANNEX 3
(7.5 percent for outer islands, 4.5 percent for Java and NTB); and (iv) "with" and
"without* proJect maintenance costs.
(c) savings to non-motorized traffic (such as pedestrians, bicycles, ox carts) are
included by adjusting them to four-wheel vehicle equivalents;
(d) engineering costing is based on a model which takes account of the costs of local
materials and labor. As a departure from the KR3 model, costs were increased by
15 percent to reflect project supervision and technical assistance.
(e)  two models, one based on traffic count method and the other on population
method, are used to estimate the economic benefts. The net economic benefits are
expressed in net present value/ldometer (NPV/km), with the assumption of 10
years road service life and 10 percent opportunity cost of capital,  cluding the
residual values, i.e., 20 percent of initial project investment.
6.         Since the economic evaluation of the mince works per link was not
determined at kabupaten level, it was estimated by Bank staffusing a simplified evaluation model
(the development and validation of an adequate road maintenance evaluation model is part of the
TORs of the CTC). The model assumes that the average road roughness (IR1) of the links
proposed for routine maince in year 0 is 8 and for periodic mantenance is 9, and also that
periodic maintenance would lower the roughness by 2 levels. Following standard road
deterioration profiles (see Chart below), a roadlink with no maintenance would deteriorate to an
IRI of 14 and thus need rehabilitation in the 6th year. On the other hand, a link that receives
periodic maintenance every 4 years and routine maintenance in the intervening years would on
average last 15 years.
ROAD DETERIORATION PROFILE ASSUMPTIONS
Routine Malntenance in Year 0         PerlodIc Maintenance In Year 0
.~~~~~~~~~~~1 A                      A    A
7.         The following table illustrates the assumptions of roughness and VOC savings
(Rplkm) used in evaluatig the benefit of mainteance that, for simplicity, is assumed to fall ino
either of the two types of cycles, i.e., starting in year 0 with periodic or routine maintnnce.
The model assumes rehabilitation will beperfrmed whenever IRI reaches level 14, and it would
bring IRI down to level 7.



-55-                             AANNEX 3
Periodlc Wainte2 a    si ar .O  Routine Maintenance in Year 0
without       With    Unit VOC  Without       With    Unit VOC
Year  IBI   VOC   1Il   VOC saving   I11   VOC  IRI  VOC  8aving
0   9.0   317   9.0   317       0    8.0   287  8.0  287       0
1  10.5   419   7.0   252   167    9.0   317  8.5  302    15
2  12.0   507   7.5   270   237   10.5   419  9.5  347    72
3  14.0   629   8.5   302   327   12.0   507  7.5  270   237
4   7.0   252  10.0   376  -124   14.0   629  8.0  287   342
5   8.0   287   8.0   287       0    7.0   252  9.0  317   -65
8.         Only paved roads are evaluated, since the overwhelming majority of the earth roads
are not considered mainainable. The benefits are the VOC savings associated with the
difference of road roughness based on ADTs observed. An annual traffic growth rate of
7.5 percent is used in the evaluation. In addition, standard costs for routine and periodic
mainenance and rehabilitation are used also (Annex 1). Maintenance costs were increased by
15 percent to take supervision and technical assistance costs into account.
9.         Standard procedures are designed to generate basic input data and to carry out per-
link planning and design work. The cycle of kabupaten road planning, programming, and
budgeting requires the following actions to be taken: (i) Basic Planning, to survey and identify
links for the next year's roadworks program, which is carried out by a trained kabupaten
planning team in accordance with the procedures laid out in the *Technical Guidelines for
Planning and Preliminary Programming of Kabupaten Roads'; (Hi) Audit and follow-up, to
ensure the quality of survey and data analysis, which is done by PBP1K, currently assisted by
C5C and its regional Field Planning Advisors (FPA); (ii) Design and DURP Preparation, to
prepare detafled works program, which is primarily undertaken by kabupaten PU staff, assisted
and checked by FCI and PBPJK; and (lv) Eligibility Review and Certifications, to ensure only
links that meet design and economic criteria are built, and to cerdfy the civil works by
contractors are properly performed, which are done by PCI and CYCC. In addition, Post-
construction Monitoring, to assess road's beneficial impact and to evaluate the results of various
engineering treatents, is undertaken by CrC and PC.
10.        Selection procedures were conceived for the use of kabupaten staff with checks and
supervision from DPUPs and DGH. They include the following main steps: (a) updating the
kabupaten road inventory; (b) conducting basic traffic and road condition surveys on part of the
network; (c) analyzing data; (d) estimang the costs and economic benefits of each road works
proposal; (e) preparing a draft annual work program; and (f) deciding on the annual budget.
Items (a) through (d) are undertaken by kabupaten teams, with assistance from DGH and
DPUPs. Item (e) is for the local decision-makers (including the bupatis) to establish, with the
economic iformation made available to them. Item (t) is part of the national budget process,
with the RATEK - the national budget coordination conference, which takes place in January and
February each year - being the final step. About 13 to 18 months are required to complete a full
cycle of the procedures.
11.        In some cases where there is little traffic and populaon but where great
agricultural and other development poteni  exists, use of the standard evaluation models



-56-                                      ANNEX 3
becomes inappropriate. Special procedures have therefore been developed which combine some
elementary regional planning with the use of a site specific economic evaluation. Such
procedures may be used in a few cases during project implementation.
12.          Consultation with the kabupaten leadership constitutes a key component of the
planning process. Once the basic planning work is completed, a long list of candidate projects
would be presented to the bupati and his senior staff. They would rank the link according to the
priority as they see it, with full knowledge of the link's economic desirability in4;cated by
economic rate of return (NPV/km). The long list would then be reduced to a short list, and
form the basis for GOI's budget document D3.5 for discussing with provincial and central
government for annual development funds. A cut-off point (positive NPV at 10 percent) is set
by Bank for all its KR3 and KREI links, and this condition is accepted by GOI in allocating
other funds administered by it. A timetable that details the events and timeframe of the GOI
budgeting process is summarized in the table below.
TIMKErAKIE FOR CRIMCAL PLANNING AcrIONS
TIME           ACTION                                           OUTPUT                      TAKEN BY
Dec/Jan        Framework and preparation studies                Selection of survey         K
l_____________ ______________________________________________  area/network
Jan-March      Basic survey on road conditions; speed;          "k"- and "s"-forms          K, aided by
l____________  traffic volume/population                                                    P/C
April-June     Analysis and evaluation                          A1,AZ,A3; Manual P2         K, aided by
June IS        Preliminary programming; ranking projects on    Ranked manusl P2 at          K
manuaL P2, and submitting it to PBPJK/CTC       kabupatens                              II
June 30        CTC receives Masnual P2                          Ranked Manual P2 at CTC    P
Late June      Preparation of maoor works list for RAKORBANG   Pre-RAKORBANG 03.5: P3       K
mfd-July       PBPJK/CtC receive cog  of formal 03.5/P3         Post-RACORBANG 03.5: P3    K/P
July-Sep       Matching, checking, and auditing;                Audited P2,P3; Blank PE1   C
Preparation of PEI: Data processing                                                      l
August         Pi to CTC                                        Manual PI                   K/P
Sep-Nov        Field audit and follow-up                        Further audited P3          C/P
Oct 1          P3 to Kabupaten to note "viable" projects        Audited P3 in computer      C/P
October        Audited P1 to return to KabuPaten                Audited P1                  C/
Oct-Jan        Design and OURP preparation                      OURP                        K/F/P
Dec 31          Ffnal P3 to JIRD with tentative funding         Final P3                    Sina Marga,
sources                                                                 _  aided by C
Jan 31         Eligibility review                               Completed PEI               F/C
Before RATEK   Summarizing certiffeation from PEI; Results      P3 + Planning and           C
to Bins Morge                                   engineering eligibitity
Before         Checking RPPIP2; Cancel projects not on          Signed RPPIP2               C
RPPIP2         Certification Table
After RPPIP2   Copy of RPPIP2 to CTC                            Final RPPIP2                Sine ar;ga
June 1         HR-1 to IBRO                                     URI                         CTC
Agency key: K a kabupaten; P - PBPJK: C a CTC; F a Field Implementation Consultants



-57 -                           ANNIE  3
B. ASSESSMENT OF TEE APPLCATON AND FUURE IMPROVEMENS
13.       The results from itroducing this PPB system to kabupatens are encouraging.
Frequent field visits to kabupatens and close monitoring at the central level enable the Bank to
conclude that the evaluation models and tecbnical procedures are sound. Ibis new system is
effectively replacing the traditional way kabupatens' annual roadworks programs were prepared,
i.e., road links for betterment and maintenmce were selected bykabupatens mainly on an ad hoc
basis, without support of any planning data and economic evaluation.
14.       Although this PPB system has been used in the 243 kabupatens throughout
Indonesia, only about 150 kabupatens covered by KR3, KREI, and the proposed Fifti Kabupaten
Roads Development Project (KRS) are closely monitored. Analysis of three sets of planning data
of over 1,000 links submitted under KR3 (first and second years) and KREI (first year)
kabupatens reveals a striking consistency among them. This indicates that the planning
procedures and methodologies used in this project and KR3 are in general applied rather
consistendy by the kabupaten staff. The total ERRs, which are calculated from aggregated cost
and benefit streams of individual links based on the programs submitted by project kabupatens,
are 24 percent, 25 percent, and 22 percent for KR3 Years I and 2 and KREI Year 1,
respectively. Summaries of economic features of the major works programs are shown in the
table overleaf.
15.       Further improvements will be needed in the areas of better integration of schedules
and format of documets into the budget preparation process, incorporation of environmental
aspects of a link into the early planning stage, and calibration of maitenance works planning
and evaluation. Most of these improvements wiU be carried out over the course of this project.
No major changes of th curret methodologies and procedures are foreseen.
16.       There is a need for GOI agencies to take full charge of this PPB system. To
transfer the core evaluation technique to GOI agencies, CrC is required to pursue the agenda
set in KR3. While stepping up training actviies, CTC would (a) further improve the soundness
of the methodologies and guidelines; (b) further simplify the evaluation model to such a level
that updating can be mechanically carried out by staff in the provinces, to be checked and
modified by more sophisticated staff in the Center.



-58-                                      ANNEX 3
PLANG AND ECONOMC FEATURE OF
KRI Fsusr YEAR MAJOR WORn PROGRAM
U OF                       UNIT  AVERAGE
LINKS       KM   Rp mtn    COST       ERR   NPV/K"
TOTAL                       152     1271   94,402     74.3    22.0X   67.4
SEAL                       106      76?  56,620      73.8    33.02   659.3
GRAVEL                      45      499   37,504     75.2    20.3X   30.1
OTHER                        1        5      278     52.5      55.1X   145.0
BRIDGES (motor)             160    1,668    S.837      3.5
FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS
LU  :GeneraL Service Road   109      892   68,307     76.6    31.02    73.5
JJS :Strategic Network       28      251   17,952     71.5    33.22       8.1
1NG .Non Oil Sector           6       43    2,281     52.9      24.S    32.6
TR  :Transmigration           3       30    2,711     89.5      19.81    61.0
PAR :Tourist                  1        1       83     83.0      20.6X   45.0
PIR :Smatthotder Estate       2       26    1,556     61.0      22.3X   38.5
KOTA:City                     1       15      764     52.0      12.42     6.0
JI  :Irrigation               2       13      748     56.2     29.4X    82.4
PRIORITY ASSIGNED BY KABUPATEN GOVERNMEUTS
1                    42      392   29.651     75.6     25.8X   51.4
2                    34      326   24,376     74.8    32.4X   82.2
3                    25      208   14,228     68.4     29.5Z    74.5
4                    15       94    6.692     71.6    34.0X    72.1
5                     7       36    2.542     71.4    24.7X   35.7
6                     8       44    3,510     80.0     31.8X   91.7
7                     3       14    1,066     75.1     S2.3X   129.3
,7                   a18      158   12,337     78.1    24.9X    59.3
BASE ERR RCNGE
10-20X                      6       621    49089     79.1
20-30X                      32      255    17203     67.S
30-40X                      19      158    10811     68.6
40-50X                      19      150    10639     71.1
O-50X                       18       88     6660     75.4
PROVINCE
NUSA TENGGARA EARAT         22      151    9,875     65.6    39.71   130.4
NUSA TENGGARA TINIR         21      255   16,498     64.7      26.02    48.2
SULAUESI UTARA              14      104   8,373      80.3    49.1X   154.9
SULAWESI TENGAN              9      102   8,148      79.7    16.82    31.9
SULAUESI SELATAN            56      304   20,195     66.3    30.2X    72.9
SULAWESI TEUGGARA           10       97   5s572      57.7    18.4X    31.0
IRIAN JAYA                  20      258   25,741     99.7     16.7X   35.4



-59-                                ANNEX 3
KABUPATEN ROADS PLANNING
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
K-series Sheets       Forms (K1-14) to contain basic dat and infraton on road network, cost,
kabupate resowures (contractors, staff, maeials), pri  (labor and materias),
bridge, and socioonomic situations. 
S-series Sheeb        Forms (Sl-8) to contain annual survey reults, including traffic counts; speed
and road surfce conditions surveys; socio.economic surveys.
A-series Sheets       Forms (Al-3) to fcilitate the link-by-link ROR analysis and evaluatioa.
P1                    Long-list of routine maintce wors, pr ed annualy pmarily by
P2                    Long-list of major woks, pepared anuually primarily by kapatens.
P3                    Short-list of major works, with prioty ranking by kabupaten leadeip;
derived from P2. When adited it is terme the 'P3.2'.
PE1                   Subproject Planning Eligibility Sheet, checded by FCI against the techmical and
economic criteria set by GOTIBRD.
APBN                  Overall National Governmet Revenue and Expenditure Budget
DIP                   Approved budget document for pqects managed by secto  ministries that are
APBN fimded.
D2                    List of Inpres Dati U projects (for al infrastructure) proposed to the Cenrl
Government by the kabupatens.
D3.5                  List of IPlK projects proposed to the Cental Govenme  by the kabpates.
DUI3P                 Submitted budget summay, fom kabpte  to Bppenas (in the case of
kaute road projects), befoe RATEK
SPABP                 Confirmed Budget Summary, after RATEL A key document when requesting
disbursement from MHAIMOF under tInDes funding.
HR1                   Amnl budget data, sbowing ebility of proects in reation to planng data.
IK, Dati UY Kabupaten block grants, allocated primarily on a per capita basis by the Centril
GovernmenLt.
IPJK                  Earmked Central Govrmet grants itded pimarily for kaupate roads
betterment.
IIRMS                  iter-urb  road ms ystem, developed by DGH/IBRD.
RAKORBANG             Provincial Tecbnical Coordination Conference
RAKONAS               National Technical Coordination Conferance
RATEK                 Budget Finaliation C onfere
RPPIP2                Summary of approved (by Govemor) reiabilitation and betternt projects.



-60-                            ANNEX 4
ROAD MANTEANCE IN PROJECT KABUPA1ENS
A. RoAD AINmEANCE StATGY
1.        The 'sttegic" issues as far as kabupaten road maintenance is concerned, addressed
under RR2 are: (i) the priority of maintenance vis-a-vis rehabilitation, improvement and new
construction; (ii) delineation of maintenance responsibilities between rural roads agencies; (il)
staff training programs; (iv) maintenance work methods; (v) the management of equipment (vi)
maintenance funding. Answers given to these issues were embodied in a Road Maintenance
Strategy issued under RR2 and now applicable to all kabupaten roads. Implementation has
started under RR2 and KR3 projects. It is expected that this Maintenance Strategy will be
further refined during the implementation of the proposed project.
2.        Experience so far with this staegy indicates the following topics to be of critical
importance:
(a) Reliability of road inventories, impacting on the quality of assessment of the anmnal
mainenance needs;
(b) Timing of maintenance surveys, to be consistent with timing of administrative
procedures so as to produce the most effective programs;
(c)  Technical guidelines and specificadons to be adopted by all kabupatens, including
quality control, work methods, organization and supervision of maintenance staff,
meamuring and costing procedures;
(d) Monitoring and cost accounting, in particular monitoring of general productivity
and efficiency to review work performance standards,and introduction of
certification of quality of force account operaions as a criterion for payment; and
(e)  Funding implications. This topic may have been overlooked in the past: the
simulation attempted in Annex 1 shows that the right level of effort is for
kabupatens to devote 25 percent to 30 percent of their road funds for mantece,
instead of 5 percent to 10 percent as is the current practice.
3.        The above topics will receive special attention and focus under the project. In
addition to the technical enhancement component (Annex 5), the project will mspport DHG's
efforts in two areas:
(a) Improving the methodological basis of the planning procedures, through inter alia
(i) an eamination of how to increase compatibility between the planning systems



-61-                            ANNEX 4
for kabupaten roads and nationallprovincial roads (based on HDM3/IRMS),
including possible adoption of HDM3 VOC and pavement deterioration modules;
and (ii) calibration of the road roughness assumptions used in the generalized
kabupaten road planning system on the basis of sample road roughness surveys.
(b)  Developing central macro-planning procedures for the whole kabupaten network.
The obj(ctlve would be to provide an information system, not for detailed planning
and programming by link, but to assist in developing road investment policy,
including budget allocation by kabupaten, medium-term strategies, assessment of
optimal treatment policy and priorities by works type.
The gap between the current maintenance management procedures and a more formal Kabupaten
Road Management System would thus be narrowed (establishment of a KRMS on the model of
the IRMS is considered premature in the present conditions of the kabupaten road network).
B. MA NNCE NEEDS AND TARGEIS IN KREI KABPATENS
4.        Estimates of Maintenance Needs. Maintenance needs, as defined in the above
Road Maintenance strategy, are based on the length of the existing sealed and gravel road
network in good/fair condition. Routine needs apply to the total length of the maitainable
network as defined above. Periodic needs are not condition-responsive, but scheduled on the
assumption that one-fifth of the goodlfair sealed roads and one-third of the gravel roads, would
require an overlay each year. Three potential sources of information were used here to assess
needs: the 1990 DGH Inventory (BMI); the *K1N road network master list compiled as part of
the standard kabupaten road planning procedures; and the 1992/93 P1 " list of road ma_itenance
candidates, also prepared as part of the annual planning process. The result is the following
assessment of needs in 51 KREI kabupatens:
Maintenanceneeds       Seal dGravelm                Total
Total length             9,173          4,694        13,867
Average/Kabupaten          180            92            272
The rest of the network, i.e. about 22,000 km in poor or bad condition, is candidate for future
rehabilitation or betterment (most of the 16,740 km of earth roads, or 47 percent of the KREI
network as shown in Table 2.4, are in this category).
5.        Budget needs have been esdmated based on the results of the P1 list which aims
to clarify each candidate road section by surface type, traffic level and age since the last major
works. Costs per kilometer for each category are based on the cost matrix at mid-1992 prices
including tax. Kabupatens are grouped into one of six regional cost categories based on
variations reported by each kabupaten in unit costs of materials and labor. Average costs for
51 KREI kabupatens work out as follows: (i) Routine: Rp 2.3 mn/km (ii) Periodic: Rp 20.1
mn/km.
6.        Annual Targets. Targets based on the above existig 'needs' assessment are
proposed as follows:



-62 -                           ANNEX 4
;yM         Targe      Roudne             Periodic            Toaw
km    Rp mn       km   Rp mn          km   Rpmu
1993194     50%     6,933   15,851     1,692  34,046      8,625   49,897
1994/95     70%     9,707  22,192      2,369  47,665     12,076   69,857
1995196     90%    12,480  28,532      3,045  61,284     15,525   89,816
Total needs (i.e. target at 100 percent) are considered to be attainable in year 4 of the
project. Ihese targets should be related to length rather than expenditure, with appropriate
specified minima for average kabupaten expenditure per kilometer on both routine
maintenance (Rp 1 mn/kn) and periodic maintenance (Rp 10 mn/km for seal and Rp Smn/kn
for gravel).
7.        Funding Implications. The Project Ffles contain detailed tables showing (C) the
total GOI and IBRD funding requirements; (ii) the amount that would be available for
maintenance from the per capita Inpres Dati 11 (K) fund assuming a limit of 30 percent of
actual 92/93 IK receipts; (Jii) the additional amount that would be required from IPIK to
meet the local component of these targets; (iv) the percentage reduction required in the
periodic maintenance target if IPJK fumds are not used for maintenance; (v) the proportion of
IK needed to meet maintenance targets if no use is made of IPJK funds, and (vi) the
proportion of 1992/93 IPJK that would have been needed to meet these targets, assuming a
30 percent limit on IK fund availability for mainteance. A summary of the above data is as
follows:
(a)  at a global lvel:
Total funding needs to meet EREI targets (the breakdown assumes that IK share
is limited to 30 percent of total IK allocation, and that IBRD share represent
40 percent of total cost net of tax):
1993194            19949S              1995/96
Rpmn    %          Rpmn       %        Rpmn    %
IK          20,285   40.7      21,587     30.9     22,081     24.6
IPIK        11,468   23.0      22,868     32.7     35,075     39.1
IBRD        18,145   36.5      25,402     36.4     32,660     36.4
TOTAL      49,898  100.0       69,f57    100.0     89,816    100.0
% of IPJK required    6.9%                13.8%               21.2%
(b)  at dWual kabsqaen levek:
No. of kabupatens needing IPJK
funds with 30 percent
IK limit             39                   47                  48



-63-                              ANNEX4
No. of kabupatens needing IPJK
funds for routine with IK
limit                   1                     6                    12
No. of kabupatens needing more
than 20 percent IPJK with
IK limit                3                     9                   26
Thus if globally the call on IPJK for the last year is quite reasonable (21 percent), some
kabupatens may have to - djust more drastically by breaking the 30 percent limit on IK funds
and/or increasing the IPIK share for maintenace.
8.         Ihe situation is less dramatic than the above figures would imply. The problem
is not a shortage of funds (Annex 1 is quit clear on that statement); it is rather to get a shift
of funds from construction/tment to mntenance purposes, and hence to get enough
flexibility in GOI fimding mechanisms.
9.         Past Peronnance. One can be reasonably optimistic when looking at the
evidence from past maitenance performance, that can be drawn from the RR2 kabupatens,
most of which are also in KR3. Average mintenance coverage and expenditure per
kabupaten in seven RR2 provinces over three years of the RR2 loan and the budgeted
program for the first year of KR3 are summarized in the table below:
AVERAGE MABUENANCE COVERAGE AND                    PER KABuPATE
iN 112 PRoVIcEs
g9         .1              90191        91/92         92M
km  Ipmn     km  Ultp      km   Rpmn    km  Rpma      km  Rpmn
Averg             65   137    94   139    ISI   18    163  943          238  1,369
Indx             1.00  1.00   1.45  1.01   2.33   1.38   2.52  6.90    3.68  10.02
Defited J              1.00          0.92         1.15         S.31           7.18
ta Deflated by BPS public woD cos index fir road and bfidges.
Average physical coverage rose strongly each year of  2 and was staied In general in
1991/92 when there ws no IBRDfiudnng. The momentum is to be maintained in the first
year of KR3. Maintnce expenditure rose more slowly, but increased sharply in 1991/92
m&ily in West Java. A higher level of expenditure is to be extended in KR3 with much
greater emphasis given to periodic overlay needs.
Another example relates to the four kabupatens of Cetral Sulawesi, included in RR2 and to
be included in KREI. The following reported evolution in maintenance performance
illustrates the impact of the IBRD project: maintenance coverage rose from about 15 percent
of needs in year 1 of the RR2 (1988/89), to about 50 percent of needs in year 3 (1990/91).
Thus these kabupatens are not expected to have any difficulty in meeting the KREI targets.



-64-                            ANNEX 4
AvERAGE MAINENNCEr COVERAGE AND ExEDITuRE
PEMR KADUATEN IN CENTRAL SULAWES
Km               Rp mX
1985/86                    1                6
1986/87                  NA               NA
1987/88                  NA               NA
19881819                  43              171
1989/90                  213              192
1990/91                  236              314
Estimated needs
for year 3 of EREI       412            1,419
* adjustd to 88/89 prices.



-65-                             ANNEX 
TECHNOLOGY ADAPTATION AND DISSEMIATION
A. Backgound
1.           Traditional methods are &ill widely used in Indonesia for construction and
maintenance of kabupaten roads and other small-scale public works. These methods have,
however, remained basically the same for decades since few systematic efforts have been made
to improve them. As a result, the quality of construction and maintenance leaves much to be
desired, whether it is labor-based or equipment-based. For instance penetration macadams for
paved roads, and telford courses for gravel roads, usually use single-graded stones for each layer
which makes them difficult to compact: as a result the pavements, even new, are generally
rough (thus reducing the savings expected on vehicle operating costs), and they are prone to a
more rapid deterioration. A trial and demonstration component has therefore been included in
the project to adapt and disseminate improved techniques, supervision and organization for
construction/improvement and maintenance of kabupaten roads. This will apply to the
introduction of more modem technologies (Section B) as well as to the improvement of labor-
based methods (Section C). Other features are built in the project to promote technical
innovation (Section D).
B. Introduction of Imnproved Tecbnologies
2.           A study under RR2 ("Technology Adaptation and Dissemination", Project File)
identified the increased efficiency, improved quality and overall cost reduction of kabupaten
roadworks which should result from application of a number of existing technologies not yet
widely used at kabupaten level. The findings are summarized in the table below. So called
"high technology" developments were not included: only those topics and techniques which have
been tried and proven elsewhere are detailed. The six topics found mnost suitable are: bitumen
emulsions, softer bitumen grades, graded aggregate paving materials, cold laid bituminous
mixes, asbuton, and soil stabilization.
3.           Prelirinary identification has been made of kabupatens to be involved by type
of technology, estimated volumes of works and costs associated, assessment of technical
assistance, training and equipment requirements. There would be about 90 field trials on KR3
and KREI subprojects to test the technologies selected for implementation. Criteria for selection
of kabupatens include technical capabilities, location (for instance, for use of asbuton), specific
local issues (for instance, kabupaten Merauke has no road building materials, and is therefore
a poor candidate for promotion of lime stabilization).
4.           The proposed implementation plan, to cover both KR3 and KREI kabupatens,
call for Bina Marga to:



-66-                                ANNEX S
TECiNoA)GY DEvELopmENr-SummAxY OF RECommENATIONs
Topic               Timescale             CoDmmets                    Suitable
Bitumen Emulsions                        Process does not involve any  new       Yes
a. For Hand Application     17 mnths    kbupa tn mecihanical equipmen
b. For Sprayed Application  2 yeas +     Process involves new, and faily complex  No
mechanical equipment.   Considerable
preparatoy work is necessay.
Sprayed Surfaco  Tretents   2 years +    Process involves new, and fairly complex,  No
mehanicd  equipmen    Considerable
preaatory work is necessary. Number
of kabuates in which initial intoduction
coud suoceed is limited.  ntroduction
better suited to a single specal project.
Softer Bitumen Grades       9 mondhs +    lmmediate benefits at no extra cost.   Yes
No new equipmnmt involved.
Graded Aggregate Paving Matrias
a. Cushed Graded Aggregates  9 months    Limited cost reduction but better quality  Yes
(denser and smoother) pavements should
result. No new equipment involved in
Rurl Roads 2 k.
b. Naurally Occurring Materials 23 months    Reduton  i costs. No new equ_ient    Ye.
involved.
Cold Laid Bituminous Mbies    14 months    No naior cost svings involved. Ilprove-    Yes
ments in quality of maintenance and ser-
vice lives of pavements should result. No
new equipment involved.
Asbuton                     13 months    Cost com      v    depends on (i) 001   Yes
pnce policy for natl rock-asphalt and
(ii) distance of kabupaten from Buton
isand.
Soil Stabilition
a. Stabilization of Subgmades    14 months    No new kbupaten eqmupment is involved  Yes
b. Stabilization of Pavement    2 years +  No new kabupaten equmet is involved   No
materias                              but introduction to follow on fiom topic
Sb.
(a)    Review the plan in the light of information received fiom the field after Project
commencement;
(b)    Review the guidelines and specifications which are now available for the selected
technologies, and adapt them for use by the kabupatens;
(c)    Organize field trials on pilot projects;



- 67 -                           ANNEX 5
(d)   Provide technical Input for traing modules for the selected technologies;
(e)    Coordinate action to implement the selected tecnologies, including project
budgeting, approval of guidelines, and progressive dissemination;
(f)    Monitor the implementation and results of the selected technologies, and evaluate
the results for use in other provinces and kabupatens.
C. Labor-Intesve Pilot Scheme
S.           At the other end of the technological spectrum, traditional labor-intensive
methods are used in most parts of Indonesia for public works. Reasons for this include the
shortage of equipment and the difficulty in keeping equipment in working condition in the rural
areas as well as the ready supply of inexpensive labor. However, quality is not satisfactory and
labor-intensive construction is not as cost competitive with equipment as it coud and should be
considering the low cost of mamnal labor. Experience from rural roads projects receiving
assistance from the Bank and ILO in other developing countries suggests that considerable
potential exists for improvement in the quality and efficacy of the labor-intensive methods
employed in Indonesia. The pilot scheme included in the project will develop and introduce
improved techniques, supervision and organization for labor-based constuction and maintenance
of district roads, with the intention of gradually replicating the results of the pilot scheme in
other parts of the country. This component has started under RR2 (Annex 6 of the SAR for RR2
has further description of the pilot scheme), and will be continued under KREI.
6.           The main features of the pilot component are:
(a)   experimntation and trials with alternative labor-based construction methods,
improved hand tools, intermediate equipment and organization/supervision in
connection with the rehabilitation/improvement of about 80 km of district roads;
the work will be implemented by force account in four districts; viz. Bogor and
Subang in West Java province and Pontianak and Sambas in West Kalimantan
province;
(b)   trials with labor-intensive techniques and corresponding management and
reporting systems for routine maintenance operations on about 100 km of
different types and standards of kabupaten roads in the same four districts as
mentioned above;
(c)    provision of handtools and equipment for the experimental construction/
improvement and maintenance works; these tools and equipment form an
essential and integral part of the trials and the development work and full
flexibi'ity is therefore required in respect of design and specifications, before as
well as during the implementation. The International Labor Organization (ILO),
who would be executing agency for the technical assistance, would assist the
government in the procurement of tools and equipment for the pilot component.
7.           More specifically, the ILO technical assisace team would:



-68 -                           ANNEX 5
(a)   plan, direct, monitor, evaluate and report on the experimental construction and
maintenance work;
(b)   prepare detailed tools and equipment specifications and revise them as necessary
in the course of the implementation;
(c)   study the local manufactring capability of tools and equipment and make
recommendations on how it can be increased and improved to raise the share of
locally manufactured hardware;
(d)   carry out a comprehensive stdy of cost, output and productivity and quality
data of different construction and m_ntence techniques including those
currendy used and those developed by the trial and demonstration program;
(e)   provide on-the-job training to the concerned kabupaten staff in the planning and
implementation of labor-based work (this would be in addition to the training
provided under the main component of the Project) and organize an overseas
study tour on this subject for senior staff;
(f)   prepare an action plan for the Government's consideration on how and to what
extent improved labor-based techniques and related management systems could
be suitably introduced on a wider scale on force account work as well as by
contractors.
D. Quality Improvement
8.           Two features are included in the KR3 and KREI projects to promote a positive
attude towards technical innovadon and improve quality of works. The first is related to
technical guidelines development. A significant body of technical guidelines for kabupaten road
and bridge planning, design, constuction and maitnance (as well as those for equipment and
workshop operations) has been prepared under RR2. The Government has already issued
instuctions for nationwide application of these guidelines and specifications for preparation and
implementation of kabupatens roadworks (including maitenance). The objectives of the
Technical Guidelines Development subcomponent are to:
*     Monitor and evaluate the implementation of technical guidelines and
specifications, as well as the experience of the use of the Invitation to Tenderers
and General Conditions of Contract used under the Projects;
*     Assist in the preparation of improvements to these Guidelines.
9.           The second feature is related to post-construction monitoring. Experience under
RR2 has shown technical audits to be instumena  in showing evidence of serious and
widespread deficiencies in quaity and quantity of materis, and in workmanship, and to address
these issues. DGH has expressed the intention to apply similar audit procedures in all provinces
for GOI-funded works, to be conducted by PBPIK staff. The main objective of post-construction
monitoring including tedcnical audit is to provide feedback to the central government on quality
of work and thereby on the effectiveness of guidelines. It is also to be used for sample
monitoring of environmental impact to fulfill GOI regulations. The tasks involved inzlude:



-69-                            ANNEX S
*     Continue post-construction monitoring begun under RR2, based on semi-annual
inspections to be carried out by the respective FCI; and expand the sample if
appropriate to other projects and kabupatens under KR3 and KREI.
*     Assist Bina Marga in further developing technical audit procedures for kabupaten
roads.
*     Carry out and analyze results of a technical audit of quality on a sample of
roadworks projects constructed under the KR3 and KREI Projects. A sample
of about 27 kabupatens would be selected each year so that each kabupaten is
sampled once over the duration of the KR3 and KREI services. One project per
kabupaten should be sampled for subgrade and pavement tests, and one project
for bituminous surface tests. Sampling and testing should be arranged through
an independent laboratory.



-70-                            ANNEX 6
DESCRIPTION OF THE KABlUPAN ROADS
MASTER TRAINIG PLAN
The context and organization of manpower development in the public works
sector is analyzed in detail in the Staff Appraisal Report of the Third Kabupaten Roads Project,
Annex 2. The present annex focusses on the Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRMTP),
part of which is to be implemented under the proposed project.
A. Introduction
The KRMTP is a five-year nationwide training plan. It has been designed to
systematically upgrade the technical knowledge, skflls and capability of DPUK and related
agencies' key road sector staff in the use of Bina Marga's technical standards and guidelines for
kabupaten roads, and in the management and administration of kabupaten roadworks activities.
The KRMTP design is based on a training needs survey and analysis (INA), of
a representative sample of 26 DPUKs throughout the country. This survey has ideified 78
important training needs for about 27 jobs in the structural, functional and project organizations
of the DPUKs. Forty training courses have been selected for preparation to respond to these 78
needs.
Training courses will be delivered nationwide in a sysmatic and uniform way.
The benefits of training kabupaten roads work performance will be measured and the impact of
training towards the Government's overall regional development objectives in the kabupatens will
be formally assessed on a regular basis.
B. Objectives
The main aim is to contribute towards the quality and sustainability of the
kabupaten road network in the context of the Government's regional development planning
objectives. Specific objectives of KRMTP are:
*     To establish nationwide, standardized approaches to kabupaten road sector
traing based on the real needs of DPUK staff and of other technical staff at
higher levels of government.
*     To progressively introduce a competency based method (CBM) of approach to
training delivery so that trainig outputs and work perfrmance improvement can
be measured to enable the benefits of training to be assessed from time to time.



-71-                             ANNEX 6
*     To improve the effectiveness of training delivery and the quality of training by
the design of CBM course materials based on Bina Marga's technical standards
for kabupaten roadworks and the training of competent CBM subject instructors.
*     To improve and strengthen the training systems and resources at all levels to
support the above aims and the Government's overall decentralization objectives.
C. Establishment of KRMTP
In order to accomplish the above aims and objectives the KRMTP includes:
*     The establishment of a KRM`P Technical Review Panel to ensure that training
courses content is compatible with DHG's technical and Bangda's administrative
guidelines for kcabupaten roadworks. All course content will be approved by this
Panel before courses are prepared and presented. A preliminary organization
structure for this Panel is shown in Fig 3.1 below.
*     The establishment of a Human Resources Development Team and production
unit within Diklat DGH to:
-     Train a core of provincial instructors in CBM delivery methods
-     Design and prepare CBM  course modules from existing and new
materials
-     Program, implement, monitor, and evaluate training inputs and outcomes
and establish the systems necessary to accomplish this.
-     Establish or strengthen training relationships and linkages with the
DPUP training units (Pedikprop) and DPUK Persomnel and Bina Marga
sections for more effective training implementation and management.
*     The programming, introduction and conducting of CBM training courses in
prioritized order on a staged basis, at first in regional kabupaten groups, leading
to provincial groupings, with an ultimate goal, after five years, of conducting
most training at kabupaten level or as near to the workplace as economically
possible in support of decentralization and to promote ownership of training by
the kabupatens.
D. Implementation of KRMTP
Because of the large magnitude of the needs of DPUK staff to be satisfied by
training responses, and because of the somewhat new methods of training delivery (CBM) which
will be introduced under KRMTP, a staged process of implementation, as mentioned above, will
be established from the beginning of the training Plan.
Over the five years of the KRMTP a staged approach to the establishment or
systems and the implementation of training will be taken to ensure that CBM and training
systems are properly established in all provinces and kabupatens. The need for this approac
is also necessary to provide for the gradual build up of resources to support the Plan. Thus tha
number of trainees to be trained and the mmiber of CBM modules to be developed have been
scaled down from the original TNA report recomm ons.



-72 -                            ANNEX 6
During the five years period about 6,000 key DPUK and related agencies staff,
out of the 14,000 originally identfied by the TNA, will be trained in regional and subsequendy
provincial groups in a set implementation sequence. Ihe preparation of CBM training modules
will also be confined to about 25 priorit CBM training courses out of the 78 originaly
identified by the TNA. The modules will be designed and produced at first by the TA services
and subsequendy by the Dilkat HRD Team assisted by TA.
E. KRMTP Expected Output and Costs
The table below shows the overall program and costs over five yeas for the
preparation and implemention sequence of the Plan. Also shown are anticipated output in
terms of number of sessions and trainees. The costs are to be supported by IBRD Loans for the
Third Kabupaten Roads and the Eastern Indonesia Kabupaten Roads Projects together with GOI
counterpart funds under a declining cost sharing arrangement: in order to ensure a gradual
transfer of the financial burden to GOI, training delivery to be disbursed at 50 percent under the
proposed project from a disbursement level of 75 percent under KR3.



U~      w1          I*             -I_ 
r   o  _f *1    _     IiIi1- Iii
ASs-il C21-M1:'1 Mg~~~~~~~
_ _' iXt." ". ...|.  ^..". ...... .... 
X   b  g "0W   | *  |  S *      *4
g _ _ P-W   ,*g _ _        _  _ sw I
__ _       _    .. .                _I
9X~~a        I                         a-i



SNo                        SM9du4CauIm4  PCWg  -
13t ETA                             _ 8ylumsthio EUwted Cost        d TORfU a INP_md                            kSJ
C_msJActviy           PuposuObwdv.    Agencis     To1fa iPMM         reps    Expct  Po II pected   (YVI          RSI    HQ
A. hlmiM& 'bpus
1. Fkli Crna_n         AmDibdUlgp   K&q_kw                   (60OF
for  b     (2 Semi)   ob I R., wmun  %R map      21,000    .OOOL    10192        lO92                Y                 X
u. hgaumd=CaPmk*7mio
1. Com TedlllCa        lbUmctInl_,    Bn Ma,                (400 F
on"i a  eini    B_mg         4,100    (S0D L    11191        11191               Y                 X
2. hvlus         t     ste..gbma      BbMa Us*                56 F
WASs gp           t.800                90L    11/92                  09          N          X      X
S. Mualc_ieg Tm        EAhyIlm _A IQ
&_.            U_,%           100      40L              am           tO11                   X      X
4. 1bCa_  W&           Am"ith6vbS      B  acp                  OF
ld    PI'm                      1 L      g   X 
L       fa0P 1                                                                                          N          x      XfI
&E i cumuud                                               20 -*    ataaami  ubd
TWWN        293JO       6L
L -~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                         nm         "
hComwmwmM Ib_aw*_w. sow                   _ _ _ 



-75-
ANNEX 
I8f0NESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KA3UPATEN ROADS PROJECT
Smbpementaton SohedaJ.
eptelement                            13                        1l
WCba rlsl talab
PROJECT~~ l
tnnual dve  ()
envirupoen  Suppi.
- _oS nd  Nltot__   888                                    8=8888
Trann (1)                                   -                         -_       _      8888_8__    _... ..=88 
LO PElot Sheme (tea
T,aIwIunfesetaI
Coreu deiey (lj             _-                                  ....                   .... 
Pafroleelntrhn   ,
11t,. , $* _  un  uso     tee il asemanei (t) ansd brin prorm (9 funded under IQIS Proet ad
IL comnenn      ) -hnded und r - R P
Note@ : *..5t ared arde
l~~~~~wnW fd 1



-76 -                            ANNEX9
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
1.          Various types of reports will be generated under the project to meet GOrs
reporting requirements and feed into its monitoring system:
-  monthly reports produced by the Field Consultants for Implementaton (FCls), the
Training Consulan, and the Central Technical Consultants (CTC), providing details
on the project, the contracts, implementation progress, and payments.
- quarterly reports prepared by the tame consultants and giving, in addition to a
progress summary, an evaluation of prblems encountered and proposed solutions.
2.          The Bank's reporting requirements wiUl be a subset of the above information, in
the form of a quarterly package to be assembled by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and
including: (i) the CTC quarterly report prepared in accordance with the sub-paras below, and
(ii) the other quarterly reports as annexes to the CTC's one. This package should be sent to the
Bank by the last day of the month following the concerned quarter. The specific requirements
are as follows:
(a)   Each report should not only record progress in project implemnation, but also
identify emerging problems and suggest solutions to tchieve project objectives.
Special attention should be devoted to the aspects of construction quality.
(b) The CTC report should cover all aspects of project components. It should
consolidate and summarize the FCIs and Training reports, and elaborate more on
the other aspects: engineering, planning, environment, and special studies. The
information should be given in such detail as to permit an assessment of the
performance of each kabupaten.
(c) The basic data for the project, contracts, implementation progress and payments
details are the same as the ones used for reporting on on-going projects, especially
the Highway Sector Project.
(d)   The consolidation of the FCIs reports will be done easily if all consultants are
using the same formats. It is proposed that the formats defined under KR3
become the norm. Tnis will facilitate the timely release of the periodic reports.
3.         In addition to the above reporting requirements, a set of performance indicators
has been defned as follows:
-  amount budgeted for roadworks annually broken down into (i) constuc-
tion/improvement and (ii) mainenance, per kabupaten and per province;



-77.                              ANNEX9
-  amount budgead annually for opeaton and maintnance of kabupaten equipment
and workawps;
-  date of rdease of annual budget allocation for maint ce;
-   mber of training package developed;
anmal number of trainees, training sessios, and trainee days under the training
progrm.
Tnese indicators, together with the physical aciememe  compared to the targets, will be
monitored thoughout project super."on to allow for a periodic assessment of project
Pefrac.



-78-                            ANNEX 10
SUPERVSION PLAN
1.         Bank Supervision Input Into Key Activities
(a)   The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision
needs for the review of progress reports, prcurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require four staff weels per year).
(b)  Each of the seven provinces should be visited at least once during project
supervision and two or three selected provinces should be visited twice. Given the
geographic dispersion of the provinces, supervision missions should focus in each
field visit on only a few kabupatens which would be deemed typical because of
their geographical ch  cs and their performance, as shown by the progress
reports.
(c) Staff from the Resident Mission will be involved to a large extent in the
supervision of this project, in particular (i) in the EA reviews and (ii) in the
random ex-post review of the large amount of LCB-procured civil works contracts
and SOE documentation.
(d)   Most of GOI's work for imp oving systems and procedures will be carried out in
Jakarta, and will therefore be supervised there by Bank missions. Close
coordination with KR3 supervision activities is warranted, in view of the numerous
common objectives of both projects.
2.         Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)   A Project Launch Workshop is to be organized by GOI. In relation with the
advance conting authorized under this project, this Workshop should be held
early enough to coincide with detailed preparation of the first year program, i.e.
around March 1993.
(b) Project coordination will be the responsibility of the Project Secretariat (PS). In
particular the PS will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions. The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible for
providing information require by missions.
(c)   Review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies will be held
normally in February of each year, to discuss the previous year's performance and
the current year program. A mid-tem Ptoject Implementation Review would be
held in Sepember/October 1994.
(d) Progress reports are to be submitted quarterly, and their content should meet the
requirements set forth in Annex 8.



-79 -                              ANNEX 10
BANK SUPERVISION IN     INTO KEY ACnvmErs
Dates                                                     Skl               Staff Inpu
(month/year)  Activity                                     Needs             (staffAveeks)
06-07/93 Supervion Mssion
(to review initial projet arngements,             HE, TE                  3
first year works contacts, and
briefing of consultants)
09-10/93  Supevision mission                               HE, TS                  4
(to review start-up of civil works                ENV
and consultancy svices, oraizational
arrangements, proges in planng
and environmental studies for 1994/95
proglam)
11-12/93  Asds in preparaion of 1994/95                    HE, TE)                 2
program on the basis of experience                ENV, TR)
of 1993/94 program.
01-02/94  SupervWion Mission                                HBE, TE)               8
(to disuss 1994/95 program propoas,               ENV, TR)
evaluation of performance of kabupatens
in catrying out mintenane, environ-
mena  sreeing and EIAs)
05-06/94  Supevision Msio                                   HE,TTE                 4
(to review, iter aia, second year
works contacts and progres m progam
of studies)
09-10194  Supwvion Mission                                  HE,TE)                 8
(mid-tem PIR to review all aspects of             ENV, TR)
the prect, especially perfomce
under loan conditions, adequacy of project
organizatonal arngemnts, quality of
consultancy services and impat of the
prQject on the performnce of road agencies)
11-12/94 Assist in preparaton of 1995/96                   id.                     2
program
1995     Thre Supervision RMiions                          id.                    16
1996     Three Supevion Misons                             id.                    12
1997     Two Supervision Msions                            id.                     8
1998     One Supervision Mssion                            HE, TE                  5
(preparation of PCR)
HB=Hghway Engineering, TE=Tn_pot Economics, ENV=Environment, TR=Training



- 80 -                          ANNEX 11
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYS
A.    Introduction
1.           The KREI project is planned to start early in 1993 and be implemented over
three years and include 51 Kabupatens in eastern Indonesia. The typical subproject proposal is
small, averaging about 6 km for road works as well as individual bridge projects. Most
subprojects involve qualitative improvements to existng pavements, though there will be minor
widening and some bridge rehabilitation. Emphasis in KREI will be placed also on fmancing
road maintenance works, such as periodic resurfacing of roads that are still in fair condition. The
large number of similar projects and their very small scale should be emphasized in order to
understand the nature of potential environmental impacts.
B.    Baseline Conditions
2.           Indonesia has a tropical maritime climate that is influenced strongly by the Indian
ocean to the west and south, and the Pacific ocean to the north and east. The archipelago is
characterized by a band of perhumid (ever-wet) climates, straddling the equator on the larger
islands, bisected by a north south zone of seasonally dry climates that are influenced by the dry
southern monsoon that blows off Australia during the months of May to September. In the east
of the country, the rainfall regime is slightly seasonal to strongly seasonal with distinct dry
seasons increasing in length and severity in an easterly direction.
3.           There are considerable differences in the baseline conditions in the provinces of
eastern Indonesia. Sulawesi is characterized by rugged mountain chains generally running north
south and by narrow coastal plains. Its shape leads to considerable differences in rainfall and
temperature. This island has been subject to the most population pressure within the KREI
project. About 61 percent of the island is classified as forested. The less stable soils of
Sulawesi and in particular South Sulawesi can lead to more significant erosion problems and the
need for properly designed drainage and better slopes wiUl be particularly important for
subprojects in this area. Nusa Tenggara is the most arid region of Indonesia. Its two provinces
are characterized by smal clusters of smaller island chains. For a large proportion of the islands
there is little or no forest, population density is generally low, and cultivated land is not
extensive. Lombok is an exception with its high rural population densities. Irian Jaya contains
the largest forest area in the country, accounting for almost 30 percent of Indonesia's forest
estate. The province has 80 percent forest cover and many of the non-forest vegetation types
are typically associated with high mountains and/or dry climadc regimes.



-81-                            ANNEX 11
C.    Screening and Assessment Methodology
4.           The GO has its own environmental procedure (known as the AMDAL process)
embodied in Public Law 29, 1986 which mandates that an environmental information report
(PIL) is requifed for all new developments that will have an impact on the environment.
Discretion is given to the relevant Miniswr (in this case the Minister of Public Works) to identfy
activities which should normally require the completion of detailed environmental assessment
reorts (ANDAL). The level of assessment would be determined by fcllowing MPW Decree
No 531 (November 9, 1989) entitled "Guidelines for Screening of Public Works Projects." A
fist stage screening puts projects into one of four categories as follows:
(a)    Category  i-Definitely  require  a  full assessment (Known  as an
ANDAL)-e.g., Toll Roadk
(b)    Categor 2-Requr either a PLL  mited asesment) or ANDAL (ful
assessment)-e.g., New roads oter than toU roads, Upgrading of roads with
widening, and Bridges >20 M long.
(c)    Category 3-Require either a PIL imited asssment) or are exnmpt from
the proas-eg., Upgrading of roads without wening, and Bridges
< 20 M long.
(d)    Category 4-Eempt from the process-e.g., Road and bridge maintenance.
5.           Due to very large number of KREI subprojects placed in categories 2 and 3, it
was decided to use a sectoral assessment approach. Ihis approach to screening and assessment
was oonsidered the most efficient way to concentae project assmn  resources on the faile
areas encountered during the project, ensre compliance with GOI procedures, and keep the
assessment task itself a manageable one for both consultants and GOI.
6.           In order to establish areas that are oonsidered frale for road construction
purposes, the EA used the RePPPrott mapping series at a scale of 1:250,000 for the entire
county. Two sets of maps can be used-one based on land status and the other based on the
Forest function classification Ir1K  which the GO has adopted in order to atempt to deal
with the use of land under the jurisdictdon of the Ministry of Forestry. For land status, land was
placed in a protecdon category based on an Index made up of dommant soil type, slope and
rainfl intensity. Also land was automatically placed in a protection category regardless of the
Index value if the slope was steep  than 45 percent, soil class was highly erodible, altitude was
greater than 2,000 m or the area was within 200 m of a spring. Protection forest (EL) areas for
both map sets were based on the same criteria.
7.           All project roads were first checked to see if they provide access to Type I
fragile areas (Conservation forests or Nature reserves). Any project which provides such access
is automatically considered ineligible for IBRD funding. All remaining projects are then
separated into six major categories as follows:



- 82 -                          ANNEX 11
Previous 4-Wheel Access (Direct Impacts Only)
1.   Road upgrading with widening                 (DW)
2.   Road upgrading without widening              (DnW)
3.   Bridge construction                          (Db)
No prior 4-Wheel Acces (Both Direct and Indirect Impacts)
4.   New road construction                        (IDnR)
S.   Road upgrading with widening                 (lDw)
6.   Bridge construction                          (1Db)
8.           For each of the six project types listed above, a sect   type assessment was
completed using a sample of similar projects from the Rural Roads H project and the first batch
of projects for the KR3 and KRBI project. For each type of project, the environmental impact
criteria were scored on a rating scale in accordance with GOI standards. Based on this scoring
system a determination of the significance of each type of project was made. For each project
type, the scope of the assessment varied with the level of complexit of the project type. For
'Dw' proposals, e.g., widening a road with existing 4-w access, the principal impacts identfied
were associated with establishment of quarries during the preconstructionphase, clearing of land,
drainage runoff effects during construction and minor impacts associated with increased access
during operation. For "Dnw" proposals, no widening, the main effects were similar to Dw
except that the impacts associated with increased access were considered of less significance.
For "Db" proposals, e.g., bridges on roads with existing 4-w access, there were a number of
impacts which were considered to be of minor significance. Further details are in the
Environmental Assessment report in the Project File.
9.           For all project types, the impacts wiUl affect relatively low numbers of people,
the area and extent of impact will be limited, and the projects are small scale with low intensity
and will be of short duration. On balance, the overall impacts on the environment for projects
not affecting "fragile areas" were assessed as being of minor significance. For any specific
element of the environment in which some potential for impact was identified, management and
or monitoring measures were included in the project design and specification documents (termed
"environmental addenda").
10.          Several provinces in astern Indonesia are considered to be fragile planning areas
in part due to the cumulative effects of population growth, deforestation of steep lands and local
road improvements. Ihe contribution of local road hnprovements to this process is still not
clear. Based on a statistical analysis, a more significant correlation wa found between rural
population density and share of forest. A comparison of these indices formed the basis for
ranking the kabupatens involved in the KREI project as to the likelihood of being more affected
by cumulative impact. A small number mainly in Sulawesi and Nusa Tenggara were designated
as "fragile kabupatens" and subprojects for major works in these kabupatens were subjected to
a more intensive screening process.



- 83 -                          ANNEX 11
D.    Public Consultation Progam
11.          Operational Directive 4.20 emphasizes the need to consult with affected groups
and non-government organizations concerning attitudes and perceptions about proposed projects.
T'e public consultation process was designed using the IBID "Environmental Assessment
Sourcebook' for guidance. It involved the design and implementation of a series of sixteen
public meetings in three provinces from within the study area. Nine of the sixteen meetings
were held in Irian Jaya because of the high proportion of indigenous peoples in this province.
There were five teams involved in the consultation program each consisting of a member of the
consultants staff, at least one member from the central goverment and one from the provincial
government. 'he meetings were arranged through the kabupaten and chaired by a senior
kabupaten representative. NGOs and local towp and village representatives were invited to aU
meetings and attendance and participation in the meetings was very good.
12.          The format of each meeting involved an outline of the scope and objectives of
the KREI project by the GOI representative. Specific local road links under consideration for
IBRD financing were used in the meetings as examples in order to help local people to identify
and understand possible environmental effects as well as to express their choices for local road
projects. Discussion was stimulated by a series of questions which raised issues that may be
important for site-specific subprojects. The responses at the meetings were carefully documented
and are set out in full in the environmental assessment report (see Project File). Many of the
issues raised were similar between locations and involved questions of a socioeconomic nature
rather than concern about the physical environment, including concern about non-local labor
being used for construction, compensation for any land or crops affected, positive effects of
better local access, and improving the agricultural viability of local towns.
13.          The results indicated that an indigenous peoples acton plan is not needed now.
However, GOI has committed to continuing the consultation program during subproject
preparation and a further second stage consultation for specific subprojects that require ANDAL
studies. A second stage consultation component for a subproject would be designed and included
in the Terms of Reference for the ANDAL which then must be approved by the Central
AMDAL Commission (Komisi Pusat) of the Ministry of Public Works. All issues raised by
these specific subprojects would be addressed as part of the detailed study with reporting back
to the affected groups about the proposed mitigatir- . The DGH environmental section would
be strengthened under the project for these tasks.
E.    Institutional Arrangenents and Monitoring
14.          The GOI Pollution Control Agency (known as BAPEDAL) responsible for
central policy direction on environmental impact analysis and pollution control was consulted on
the use of this sectoral assessment approach for this project and has given full support. The
approach taken to the screening and sectoral assessment of subprojects which have no potential
to threaten "fragile areas" complies with IBRD operational directive 4.01 on environmental
assessment. In OD 4.01, sectoral assessments are discussed as the type of environmental
analysis appropriate for the situation where there are many small projects which individually do
not merit site-specific environmental assessments. The proposed use of a team of Indonesian
environmental professionals assisted by foreign experts will assist in attaining the objective of
strengthening environmental capability in Indonesia. The team would train and work with both



-84 -                          ANNEX 11
provincial and local personnel (PBPJK) to collect data for site specific assessments and facilitate
environmental monitoring of other subprojects during and after implementation.
15.         The project includes adequate assistance to GOI for continuation of the EA task
and to strengthen the institutions involved. Bank monitoring should focus on the implementaton
of the institutional strengthening program as it is important that Bina Marga itself be able to
carry out and review EAs. The Bank should also review the results of selected public
consultation meetings that are to be held by DGH when appropriate. The objective will be to
ensure that the support and participation of indigenous peoples is being actively pursued for the
relevant road subprojects. Also, GOI requirements for an RKL (management plan) an RPL
(monitoring plan) arising from the results of each sectoral project type PIL, are consistent with
Bank requirements.



85-                             ANNEX 12
DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN 1 PROJECT FILE
1.         General Reports and Studies
(a)   Study on Concor performance, USAJID and Associates in Rmal Development,
December 1990.
(b)   Rural Roads Man    ce Systenu Project, Vols. 1-3, USAID and Associates in
Rural Development, March 1991
2.         Project related documents
(a)   Kabupaten Roads Master Training Plan (KRNTP) 1992/93 - 1997/98, Project
Management Unit, IBRD Rural Roads II project.
(b)  Environmental Assessment Report, Vols. 1 - 4, September 1992.
(c) Planning Activities under IBRD Rural Roads 2: Methodology (Draft Chapters),
PMU, July 1990
(d)  Technical Guidelines for Planning and Programming, PMU, July 1989
(e)   Special Area Study: Review and Proposed Procedures, PMU, Dacember 1991.
(f)   First year civil works program:
-    Draft Maintnenace Program (P1)
-    Major works longlist (P2)
-    Major works shordist (p3.1)
(PMU, October 1992).
(g)  Technical guidelines for the preparation and implementation of kabupaten road
works and for the management of equipment, GOL 1991 and 1992.
(h)  Report on Technology Adaptation and Dissemination, PMU, April 1992.
(i) Estimated Requirements for Roadworks Equipment, Workshops and Laboratories,
PMU, October 1992.
O) Note on Revised Assessment of Maintenance Needs and Proposed Targets, PMU,
October 31, 1992



-86-                           ANNEX 12
3.        Terms of Reference
(a) Central Technical Consultants, July, 1992.
(b)  Field Consultants for Implementation, August 1992.
(c)  Bina Marga Environmental Institutional Strengthening, November 1992.
(d)  BAPPEDA Environmental Intitutional Strengthening, November 1992.



- 87 -
Table 1.1
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS ]PROJECT
SrATIS'FCcAL OVEREW
92M9
Kaluvoten Roads                                        1989     Xb_aten
4-whed         Good&P    Su&t F           opu.         Lawd            GURDPcap Rdas.BWdgt
vehicles  Lenst copdton h   Saead Orve lsaon   Am    Cndoex                        Rp bo.
(1989)    km    km   %    km    km   '000  1,000/km' %  Pok
KREI
N. Sulawesi      43,598   4,729  2,109       2,191  5S6   2,040   26.6  34    273          58        28
C. Sulawed       13,494   3,790  1,403        457 1,289   1,703   60.3   17   165          57        24
S.Sulawesi       65,710   9,185  3,850       1,876 3,290   3,770    50.6  39    289        59        67
SE. Sulbwesi      5,156   S,183  2,380       1,470 1,329   1,349   36.8  31    120         65        23
Sulawesi        127,958  22,887  9,742  43   5,994 6,464   8,862   174.3  29    161        59        142
W. Nusa Tegaa  18,043   2,821  1,495         1,313   849   3,369    19.5  34    507        37        29
E. Nusa Tenggara  14,875   7,692  2,278       790 2,744   2,499    38.6  28    253         35        47
Nusa Teaggara    32,918  10,513  3,773  36   2,103 3,593   S,868    58.1   30    300       36        76
wlan Jaya        13,970   2,360   707  30    574   298   1,629   414.8  23       17       112        65
KREI KAupsiena           35,760 14,223  40   8,671 10,3SS  16,359   647.2
Other la                  6,189  3,003       2,085 1,834   4,418    19.6
KREI Provine    174,846  41,949 17,226  41  10,75612,189  20,777   666.8  26    121        56       283
UMluk             8,151   2,S22  1,742       1,046   969   1,851    78.0   14   173        81        24
_imor Timu        6,027   2,309    519        402   243    748    14.9  21    235          35        22
Eastem Indone   189,024  46,779 19,488  42  12,204 13,400  23,376   759.7  24    126       S7       329
C. Klinanan       5,705   2,868    469        341   241   1,396   153.6  44    20         104        31
E. Kalimntan     39,138   2,619  1,197        S09 1,225   2,597   197.2  31    42         419        36
S. Kalimaitan    24,892   4,323  1,819       1,100 1,291   1,87S    37.5  72    70         85        30
W. Kalimantan    20,827   7,126  1,348        940   594   3,235   147.5  53    41          95        52
Kalimantan       90,562  16,935  4,832  29   2,890 3,350   9,103   535.8  44    39                   149
Sumatra         512,910  57,225 25,073  44  18,703 38,522  36,420  475.3  51    150       133       364
bvs/Bali      1,777,121  55,738 37,664  68  35,25420,484 110,295   138.5  83    890        80        481
hndonesia     2,569,617 176,677 87,057  49  69,05175,757 179,194 1,909.3  41    231       100      1,324
j *Olher inchldes road, populi and tota area data br kbupste  and kotmadaya (ciles) located within KRtI1 provines but
excluded fom KREI pr"ewtL
lb Exc=ldes eCah roada.
Now: Al 1990 data unim aothein  ated.



- 88-
Table 1.2
BDONEIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
GROSS REGIONAL DoMEScC PRODUCr PER CAITA, 1989
(Current priegs RP '000)
Region/                                              Index          Total
Province                 Oil   Non-oil   Total   (ind=100)    (adjusted) La
Sumatra                   452       767    1,220       133           901
Jakarta                     0    2,329   2,329         255          2,462
Java/Bali (exCI. Jkt)      37       694     731         80           828
Kalimantan                354    1,103    1,457        159          1,237
Subtotal                152       820     972        106           955
Sulawesi Utara              0       527     527         58           661
Sulawesi Tengah             0       519     519         57           653
Sulawesi Selatan            0       543     543         59           676
Sulawesi Tenggara           0       594     594         65           727
NTB                         0       334     334         37           467
NTr7                        0       324     324         35           458
Irian Jaya                182       841   1,024        112           975
Subtotal Krei Provinces   14      497      511         56           631
Maluku                      8       730     738         81           864
TimorTimur                  0       318     318         35           452
Subtotal
Eastern Indonesia         13      510      523         57           644
Indonesia                 la        7       291                      2I
Source: BPS.
La  Adjusted GRDP is based on realocation of total oil-based GRDP to aU provs. in line with
provincial population.



-89 -                                   Table 13
IDONESA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
POPTION, LAND AREA AND INDICATORS OF POpuLATION DENSRiy
Polaon                 Popuation
Estiomd     denst on   sdimated   denst on
Populaon   % of aea      n ander   % of amea    oulivable
Provinoe/    Popubtion Land Am        density   under 40%    40%  lopa   cultivable     ea
Region       1990 (no.)  (sq kn)   (no/sq kln)   slope Li    (no/sq lun)   &       (no./sgq In)
Sumata      36,4_ ,486   475,309        77          68          112        51           150
Jakart        8,222,515      656    12,S34         100       12,534       n.a.          n.e.
Java/Bali   102,072,804   137,539      742          83          894        83L/         890
KaimantAn    9,102,906   535,834        17          64           27        44            39
Sulut        2,477,946    26,555        93          22          424        34           273
sulteng       1,703,330    60,329       28          18          157        17           165
Sulse        6,980,589    62,451       112          33          339        39           289
Sultra        1,349,298    36,810       37          36          102        31           120
NTB           3,368,699    19,537      172          41          421        34           507
NTT          3,267,919    46,325        71          5S          :28        28           253
aian Jaya     1,629,087   414,800        4          47            7        23            17
Kiei Provinces 20,776,868   666,807     31          48           65        26           121
Maluk         1,851,087    78,019       24          43           55        14           173
imti-n         747,557    14,978        50          56           89        21           235
E. Indonesia  23,375,512   759,804      31          48           64        24           126
Indonesia   179,194,223  1,909,142      94          60          157        41           231
Source: BPS, RePFFroT, NUDS.
/a  RePPProT data in Dick J: Forest Land Us Zonation and Dorestation, Idonesa, 1991.
/  Based on RePPProt recommendations for TOHK foret fnimon areas for convetible forest and unclassified
land (includes edsting culivated ara).
lo  Exiting cutvated area fom BPS and esdmat of culivable area not in use from Nadonal Urban bedopmeat
Stategy (NUDS).



- 90 -                            Table 1.4
INDONESA
EASTERN INDONESA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECr
LAND USE iN E. INDoNSA
(sq km)
Region/                    Bush/scrub  Sbifting  Cultivated   Tree    Settle-   Mlsc/&
Province          Forest   gassdand    cult.      ba    crop. l    ment   no data   Total
Si 'atra           233,235   104,343    34,286   38,631    35,504  13,592   15,723   475,314
Java/Bali           13,459    16,976     2,943   S6,734   26,106  17,975    4,012   138,204
Kalimantan         399,860    57,471    S4,596    9,335    6,190   1,288    7,098   S35,838
Subtotl          646,554   178.790   82=    104.700   67        32.85    26.833  1.149.356
Sulawesi Utara      15,537     2,972       352    2,149    3,054    535      1,957    26,555
Sulawesi TenUa      43,591     6,616     1,569    2,489    1,677    431    3,956    60,329
Sulawesi Selatae    28,792    15,712     2,161    9,389    2,889   1,462    2,046    62,451
Sulawesi Tenggara   24,775     7,628     1,187    1,86^      198    618       532    36,810
NTIB                 9,326     4,231      636    3,621       328    930       455    19,527
NIT                  9,794    25,147     3,235    3,823      349    724    3,256    46,328
Irian Jaya         349,583    35,911    12,873      782      145    794   14,712   414,800
Subtotal         481.397    98217    22Q03   24.115    840   5.54   262914   666.
Krei Provinces
Maluku              63,480     7,076     2,164      666      183      21    4,429    78,019
Timor Timur          5,574     7,419       986      398      259      36      206    14,878
Subtotal         55.A.5   112.712    25.163   25.179    2        5.56     31.S49   759.697
Eastern Indonesia
Indonesia        1L197.005   291       116.988  129.879           38.415   58.382  1.909Q9Q3
Source:  ePPProt Reports based mainly an 1982/83 aedal photography.
/a Wetland and dryland crops excluding tree aops.
Ib Including ago-forestry and refation.
/c Includig vegetated land, water and fisiponds.



- 91 -                            Table 1.5
IDONESA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY OF BROAD LAND USE BY MoEmG3N
(% of total ara)
Cultivated/          Other
Forest           Settled Ia          Uses Lb          Total
Sumatra                       49                 18                32               100
JavalBali                     10                73                  17              100
Kalimantan                    75                 3                 22               100
Sulawesi                      61                14                 25               100
Nusa Tenggara                 29                 15                56               100
Irian Jaya                    84                  1                 15              100
Maluku/TimTim                 74                 2                 24               100
Eastern Indonesia             72                 5                 22               100
Indonesia                     63                 13                24               100
Source: Previous table.
La Includes wetland and dryland crops, tree crops and settlement areas.
tb Includes bush, grassland, shifting cultivation and miscellaneous uses.



-92 -                             Table 1.6
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROTJEC
SUMMA:Y OF PRESE4  FOREF FUNCIION AREAS
(sq km)
Pro-      Ld.      Nonral    Con-
Nature   tetoc       Prod      Prod.    verion     Unclass-
Provincel        Reserve    Forest     Forest    Forest    Forest     ified /a    Total
Region         (PPAIHSA)  (IL)        (HPI    (PB/E)   (HPK)
Sumatra            41,414    64,121    66,576    69,319      86,760    146,929    475,119
lava/Bali            na.       na.        n.a       na.        na.        Ua.         ua.
KlWimnetan         36,386    65,471    118,266   132,246    115,316    68,591      537,276
Sulawesi           14,126    43,202    45,877    15,222      16,241    52,177      185,845
Nusa Tenggpaa /b    3,499    16.172     ',913     5,527      17,144    30,315       80,770
Irian Jaya         73,700     ',000    46,300    80,300      97,600     11,900     414,800
Kre Provinces /b    91,325   164,574    i00,090   100,049    130,986   94,392      681,41S
Maluku              4,534    13,309    16,426     8,524      34,638       504      77,93S
Eken Indonesia    95,859   177,883    116,516   108,573    165,623     24,896      759,350
Indonesia         173,659   307,475    301,358  310,1238    367,699    310,416    1,770,745
Source: RePPProT Reqnots.
/a Includes 5,617 sq km stae fiee forest OMIB) in Sumtra.
lb Includes TimorTiur
Note: Inludes sume desigated fons functin aras not actually under finesL



- 93 -                                  Table 2.1
MDONESIA
EASITWN INDOt;SIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
ROAD NErwoRK IENGr BY ROAD CLASS AND ISLAND GROUP
Javal   ali     Suia-   Nun          hian   Maluu   Eastean    Total for
Road Chss          Sumatra   Dali   mantan   weal   Tepggara   Jaya   ifmTin  Indonesia  Indonesia
National:  Atal      4,901    3,094   1,931    2,426    1,369       434       273      4,s50     14,428
Collotor   1,524      223     140       295      389      182       538      1,404      3,291
Subtotal           642S    3,317   2,071    2,721    1,758        616       811     S5,06      17,719
PwvlinciaL  Aierla     120       11      1S       176        0       191       22        389       535
Provincial 10,223    7,083   3,754    5,311    1,906     1,466    1,924     10,607     31,667
Lcal         511      445     100       289      337        0       181       807       1,863
Subtotal          10,854    7,539   3,869    S,776    2j243      1,S67    2,127     11,803    34,065
Tol Roads               35      339       0         0        0        0         0         0        374
Kabupaten Roads /a   57,225   55,738  16,935   27,265   12,324    2,360    4,830      46,780    176,677
Urban roads          5,337   14,001   1,501    2,130    1,172       488       801      4,591     25,431
Tanmigration Roads   3,564      130    860        734        0       S8         0       792       S,346
Total             gm         U~3L    am"   174    L1M   Jm   I2at   U2d
Ia Inchuing kobamadya toads.
Source: DGH: 1991192, exept kabupaton roads 1990 and taunmgration roads 1988.



ROAD PAVEMNT BY ROAD CLASS AND BLAND GROUP
(percentage *. the road network in each category)
Java-    Kali-             Nusa       hian   Maluk      Eastemr
Road Class           Sumatra   Bali  umanta    Sulawesi Teggara    Jaya Timortrmor ldones          Idonesia 
National:    Paved     93       100      87        83       98         63      68          83         90
Unpaved     7         0      13       17        2         37       32         17          10
Provicid:   Paved       81       97      47       71        68         34      56          63         75             EX
Unpaved    19         3     53        29        32        66       44         37          25
Kalbpaten    Paved     33        64      17       28        20         24      30          26         39
Unpaved    67        36     83        72        80        76       70         74          61
0
Source* DOll 1991/92 (national and provincial roads) and 1990 (Kabupaten Roads). 
0?



- 95 -                           Table 23
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS ]PROJECT
CoNDmoN oF TE NATIONAL, PROVNCIAL AD KAUATEN ROAD NEWWRKS (M90)
Island Group:  Percentage of the Road Network in Indkcated Condition
National and Provincdal Rads
Goo2d    1Enk         Nor         ad
<6         6-8        8-12     > 12
Sumtra                                 50         10          22        18
Java/Bali                              65         19          14         2
Kalimantan                             32          8          16        44
Other Islands (E. Indonesia)           32         14          28        26
Indonesia n                                    U           2        2Q
Kabupaten Roads
Go Eair    FPoor       E"
Indonesia                          2          12                    21
Source: DGH, 1990 kabupaten roads inventory (adjusted on basis of planning surveys).
1991 national and provincial roads condition survey.



-96-                           Table 2.4
]NDONESIA.
EASTERN INDONESIA KCABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
1990 NATIONWDE KABUPATEN ROAD INVE rY
Sum OF ROAD LENGTs (Km) By SURACE Tym
FOR IBRD ftOJBCT KADUPATEN GROUIPS
Project   Kab    Sealed   S%     Gravel  G%        Earth   E%        Total
KR3       73    24,852    36    18,175    26    26,206    38       69,233
KREI      51      8,668    24    10,352    29    16,740    47      35,760
1990 NATIONWIDE KABUPATEN ROAD INVENTORY
SUM OF ROAD LINGTH OM BY SURFACE CONDMON
FOR IBD PRQOC KABUPATEN GROUPS
Project     Kab   Good/Pair   %   Poor/Bad    %    Earth    %      Total
KR3          73       31,733   46    11,294   16  26,206   38   69,233
KREI         51       14,223   40     4,797   13  16,740   47   35,760
TaSo :      190       45.956          16.01   1       96   41  104.993
SOUrCe: DC"H 1990.



-97 -                              Tlo25
NDONESIA
EASTER INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
PRoJwr KABUIATENS AND THR ROAD NWTwoRKs
Length of Rods According to Condition       % of total
(kflometers)                    roads i
Province          Seal   Seal    Gravel  Gravel  Earth   Total   good/fair
Good/  Poorl  (Good/   Poor/   Total              cndition
Kabupaten        fair    bad    fair      bad                     seal   gravel
West Nusa T_ar
Lombok Barat      279      22      28      15       98    441    63         6
Lombok Tengah    263       55      95    130        105    617    43       15
Lombok lmur       248      17      94      77       185    621    40       15
Sumbawa           126      73      42      98       126    465    27        9
Dompu              30      26    117       58        59    289    10       40
Bima              117      59      59      67        86    388    30       15
1g.           LA    Z    A2ZJZ1   A d
East Nusa Tengg
Sumba Barat        66       1    322       76       89    553    12        58
Sumba Timur        51       4    248       84      490    876       6      28
Timor Tengah Sel.  77       3    366       53      395    893       9      41
Timor Tengah Ut.   60       0    255    113        242    670       9      38
Alor               37      26      69      80      315    527       7      13
Flores Tinur       88      16      67     140      473    783    11         9
Sikka             131       4      27    139        134    434    30        6
Ende               41       0     100      16      339    496       8      20
Ngada              56      10      80    114       656    916       6       9
Manggarai          77      44      61    337      1,025   1,544     5       4
Total KME I     go                    1.149     41S7   Lm         2      21
North Sulawesi
Gorontalo         251      62      94      85      879   1,370    18        7
Bolmon            331      36    136       32      341    875    38        15
Minahasa          968    303    119        46      442   1,877    52        6
Sangihe talaud    178      65      33      10      321    607    29         6
2AtAl         LZ                       LU 17i   1 M        fL7 aZ 
Central Sulawesi
Banggai            57      19    469    215        782   1,542      4      30
Poso               51       1    191        1      479    723       7      26
Donggala          229      13    241       71      410    965    24        25
Buol Toli Toli     86       0      79      21      374    560    15        14
T.n                             U  auQa   L                              H 3



- 98-                              TbOb2.5
Length of Roads According to Condition      % or total
(kIometers      _               roads in
Pro-.ince         Seal   Seal   Gravel  Gravel  Earth   Total   good/fair
Good/  Poor/  Good/   Poor/   Total               cndition
Kabupaten        fair    bad    fiir      bad                     seal   gravel
South Sulawesi
Selayar            74      64       8      76       156    377    20        2
Bantaeng           80      52      56      S0       95    334    24        17
Gowa              181      23     199      77       197    676    27       29
Maros             108       2     137      34       151    432    25       32
Pangklene          97      41      7S    "11         53    414    24       18
Barru             126       7      67      32       126    357    35       19
Soppeng           193       3    253        7       145    600    32       42
Wajo              121      37    257    114        225    754    16        34
Enrekang           19      15    131       29      213    407       5      32
Luwu              136      14    490       78       894   1,610     8      30
Tana Toraja       200      28    148    100         580   1,056    19      14
Polewali          127      30    102    189         617   1,066    12      10
Majene             72       3      74      26      291    466    15        16
Mamuju             24       1    298       37      278    638       4      47
Total KRE:I 1aza                                                         2 318  gjaL918S   U
Southeast Sulawesi
Buton             396    122    228        46       892   1,684    24      14
Muna              334       5    414       59       318   1,130    30      37
Kendari           192      21    323       75       546   1,156    17      28
Kolaka            358      41     136      48      629   1,213    30       11
TM            La  in LM   0   ams i    a   Li
IRIAN JAYA
Merauke           107       2       0       0       382    491    22        0
Jaya Wijaya        18       0      29      35       312    395      5       7
Jayapura          132      14      16      52        25    239    55        7
Paniai             45       7      51       1        11    114    39       45
Fak Fak            24       6      38      31       74      173    14      22
Sorong             46      11      15       1      228    300    15         5
Manokwari          40       3      1S       0       99      158    26      10
Tel. Cendrawasin    97      1       6       1       172    276    35        2
Yapen Waropen      20       0       8       0       187    214      9       4
TM aXm    Q  La   m   L.a90      P    A
Total KME
(51 "bs)  L6Z  La0  gm  A    M1Zi  ,Z W                                 1a
Source: DGH 1990.



-99-                           Table 2.6
IDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
REGj1rEO MOTOR VEIUCLIS (1980-1990)
Cars &
Year         Pickups           Buses           Trucks            ToWa
(numer of vehicles)
1980          639,464          86,284          473,832         1,199,579
'1981         710,937         110,103          575,426         1,396,466
1982          791,019         134,430          657,104         1,582,553
1983          865,940         160,260          713,873         1,740,073
1984          927,148         191,654          790,881         1,909,683
1985          989,158         227,304          845,338         2,061,800
1986         1,063,958        256,574          882,331         2,202,863
1987         1,170,103        303,378          953,694        2,427,175
1988         1,073,106        385,731          892,581        2,351,418
1989         1,182,253        434,903          952,461         2,569,617
1990         1,313,210        468,550         1,024,296        2,806,056
Grwt Rat M%
1980/81          11.2            27.6             21.4             16.4
1981/82          11.3            22.1             14.2             13.3
1982/83           9.5            19.2              8.6              9.9
1983/84           7.1            19.6             10.8              9.7
1984/85           6.7            18.6              6.9              8.0
1985/86           7.6            12.9              4.4              6.8
1986/87          10.0            18.2              8.1             10.2
1987/88          -8.3            27.1             -6.4             -3.1
1988/89          10.2            12.7              6.7              9.2
1989/90          11.1             7.7              7.5              9.2
Source: Biro Pusat Statistics-Figures are based on new vehicle regitration (without adequate
allowance for scrappings).



- 100 -                         Table 2.7
WDONA
EASERN INDONESI KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
NUMER OF REGLERED MOTOR VEHCLES 1989 Y REGION
Cars &                           Total        Motor
Region/Province        Pick-ups    Buses     Trucks     (4-whi)        cycles
Sulawesi Utara           18,191     8,702     16,705     43,598        39,289
Sulawesi Tengah La       3,946      1,701     7,847      13,494        40,633
Sulawesi Selatan         19,096     9,216    37,398      65,710       226,073
Sulawesi Tenggara lb      1,162      638      3,356       5,156        19,261
NTB                      7,077      1,167     9,799      18,043        47,251
NTI`                     6,940      3,018     4 917      14,875        27,138
Irian Jaya               7,122      2,302     4,546      13,970        30,240
Subtotal KREI provinces  63,534    26,744   84,S68    174,846       429,885
Maluku                   2,371        893     4,887       8,151        16,446
Timor Timur              3,682      1,033     1.312       6,027        15,846
Subtotal E. Indonesia  69,587    28,670     90,76Ki    189,024      462,177
Klimaitan Barat          9,390      2,263     9,174      20,827        90,623
Kalimantan Teagah         1,823       74      3,80T       5,705        26,367
Kalimantan Timur         14,170     6,452     18,51k     39,138        89,743
Kalimanun Selatan        14,662       950     9,280      24,892       114,035
Subtotal Kalimantan   40,045      9,739    40,778      90,562       320,768
Sumatra                 196,329    80,155    236,426    512,910     1,266,810
Jakarta                434,659    150,077    173,170    757,906       757,393
Java/Bali               441,633    166,262    411,320   1,019,215   2,915,143
Subto.l Other Ptovinces 1,112,666   406,23  861,694   2,380,593   5,260,114
-                                                     aDONS  Lia    &zM 222la
Source: State Police of Indonesia.
La Some vehicle regiradons liklay to be included in Sulawesi Utara.
/b Some vehicle registrations likely to be included in Sulawesi Selat;n.



DESIGN STANDARDS FOR KABUPATEN RoADs AND BRIDGES
Road Cla8sificatio           Clm MIA               Cilm Bi                Clm  M B2              ci m c
Surface Type             Asphalt Surface         Asphalt Seal             Gmvel             Gravel/AWCAS
Traffic Volume: ADT
Crtafti Deip Chus)             >500                 500-201                200-50                  <50o
(4)                   (3)                    (2)                   (1)
Flat to       Mount- Flat to         Mount- Flat to        Mount- Flat to         Mount-
Terrain           Rolling  Hilly  ainous Rolling  Hilly  ainous Rolling  Hilly  ainos Rolling  Hilly  ainous
TrafficLanes          2       2      2      1+      1+     1+      1+     1+      1+      1       1      1
DedR      zbnm/Z  Dulkabb    80      60     40      60     40      30     60      40     30      50     30      25
Spei-               ladm      50      40     30      40     30      30     40      30     30      30     50      20
Gradia       (3)M    m         6       8     10       8      10     12      8      10     12       9     12      14
(imting)          Dedp         3       5      8       6      8      10      6       8     10       7     10      12
P    _vma         Deak        5.d 5.5     S.S5.     5.0    5.0    5.0    4.5    4.5    4.S    4.S    4.5    4.5            i!   
Widlt              MinImm     4.5    4.5    4.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5        3      3.5    3.0    3.0    3.0
Shoulder          Derb"l      2.0    1.5    1.5    1.5    1.25   1.6    1.5    1.0    i.0    1.0    1.0    0.7S
Widh              Wdm         1.5    1.25    1.25   1.25    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    1.0    0.75   0.75   0.75
Road Bed          D elDde     9.5    8.5    8.5    8.0    7.0    7.0    7.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.5    6.0
Width             Minmum      7.5    7.0    7.0    6.0    6.0    5.S    5.5    5.5    5.5    4.S    4.5    4.5
I$b9               Dea&qnbb            IsM                    16M                   16M                    16M             0
"lWay             Minimum              16M                    12M                   12M                    12M
Road    093nM   P&WW3%                                        3%                   4%-6%4%6
Camber            Shodder             4%.5%                 5%66%                  6%-7%                 6
BR     <MM TagetSndOverall Wi          7.0M                  7.0M                   7.0M                  S.SM
ID              WAS Wid Wak m          6.OM                  6.OM                   6.0M                  4.5M1
G3E                                                          - 
>,30  TasSmntdandO,eRVfid      7.OM                   7.0M                  7.0M                   S.SM
3T               Wdbowt de walk (i)    6.OM                  6.OM                   6.OM                  4.SM
DAT                                                          3.OM                   3.OM                  3.OM
RDS 1:%:mDe4dUpl   1                 70%BM                  70%BM                 70%BM          70%BM ("0% T_nkry)
Soarce DGH - Tchnical Guideies for Engineering Survey and Design of KabupaR t Roads, December 1991.



- 102 -                          Tabl 4.2
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATE ROADS PROJECT
EQUWW RBQUnWIs
Unit Pino    Quantity    Total Cost
(USS)                   (USS)
(a)  Roadwork Equipment
Bulldozer + Ripper       110 HP       105,000          7        735,000
Mtor Grader + Ripper     110 HP        75,800         16      1,212,800
Wheel Loader             1.2 r-3       75,600         26      1,965,600
3 Wbeel Roller           10 Ton        42,000         30      1,260,000
Pedesktian Roller        500 Kg        11,500         37       425,500
Mechanicd Plate Comp.    70 Kg          2,200         66        145,200
Wata Pump                 4             2,200         26         S7,200
Concreta Mixer           250 lit        1,700         19         32,300
Stone Crusher            20 TPH       122,000         39      4,758,000
Dunp Trucks              3.5 Ton       22,000         96      2,112,000
itumnen spaye. hand      200 Lit        6,600         33        217,800
Traier (towed)           1.5 Ton        2,40t         42        100,800
Generator                30 KVA         7,500         22        165,000
Air Compreor             125 CFM       12,000         23        276,000
Radio SSB                               2,300         31  ses  71,300
Subtotal                                                   13,534,500
Spare parts (15%)                                           2,030,175
Distibution Cott (8%)                         1,245,175
Total Roadwork Equipment                                   16,80U850
(b)  Workshop Equipment                                            1,345,000
(c)   Training Equipment and MateIals                                500,000
(d)  Laboratory Eqi60184
DCP                                      600          14          8,400
CBR Laboratory                          2,775         24        66,600
Compaction Set                           750          23         17,250
DYniD  Oven                             3,200         13        41,600
5aid C=e8                                300          57         17,100
Liquid Limit Tedt                        275          80         22,000
PlStc limit TeSt                          100         76          7,600
Gradation                               2,500         70        175,000
Speedy Moistue                          3,000         44        132,000
Balance20kg x 1                         2,500         28         70,000
2,600 gr x .1                         750         19         14,250
200 gr x 0.01                       875          35        30,625
Los Angeles                             6,750         51        344,250
Concrete Block Tester                  15,000         51       765,000
Slump Cone                               650          25         16,250
OrgaC  Imputies                         1,100         43        47,300
Moisture CorEteit 18                                 126         2,268
Sand equivaleat                          SOO          37         18,500
Concrete mold                             10         455         4,550
Fire extinguihr                           125        102         12,750
Tot Laboratory Equipment                                        3293
(e)   Vehiles La
Pick Up                  I Ton         11,000         39        429,000
Motor Cycle              125 CC         1,200        102        122,400
SerVice Pick Up          1 Ton         12,000         42       504,000
TOWal VehilS                                                LOS4M
Grand Totdal                                                 -2
La   Tbese items will be purchased under reserved preumeL



INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
EXPEx DrE Accoums BY CompomNms
(Rupiah millon)
Road Network Improvement
Road    Technology             lnsttutional               Physical
Road  Workshops  Equtip       Adapt. &   Trainig    and technical           Contingece
Works   & Labs      Pogram    Dissemin. Component  Development  Total      %      Amount
investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Road Bettment            247,860.0       -          -    1,500.0       -           -      249,360.0  10.0   24,936.0
Penodic Maint. (Seded)    107,856.0      -          -    1500.0        -            -     109,356.0  10.0   10,935.6
Periodic Maint. (Gravel)  39,048.0       -          -      9C0.0       -                   39,948.0  10.0    3,994.8
Routine Maintenance       66,976.0       -          -      800.0       -            -      67,776.0  10.0    6,777.6
WorksopsConstruciton            -   5,205.0         -         -        -           -        5,205.0  10.0      S20.5         o
Laboratories Construction       -     820.0         -         -       -            -         820.0  10.0       82.0
Subtotal               461,740.0  6,025.0               4,700.0      -            -     472,465.0  10.0   47,246.S
B. Equipment                       -   7,084.0   39,710.0             1,160.5          -      47,954.5   5.0    2,397.7
C. Oveseas Training                -        -          -          -     100.0          -         100.0  10.0       10.0
D. Local Professional Taning       -              -              -    400.0                      400.0  10.0       40.0
B. Training Deiivery               -        -          -          -   5,005.0          -       5,005.0  10.0      500.5
P. Consultants Services       43,000.0      -          -    3,045.0  3,834.0      10,000.0    59,879.0  10.0     5987.9
Total Baseline Costs     504,740.0  13,109.0   39,710.0   1,745.0 10,499.5    10,000.0    58S,803.5   9.6   S6,182.6
Physical Contingencies   50,474.0    956.7     1,985.5    774.5   991.9       1,000.0     56,182.6
Price Contingencies      47,652.0    884.0    3,654.1     962.0  1,538.0      1,372.1     56,062.2   8.8    4,916.6
Totd Project Costs       602,866.0  14,949.7   45,349.6   9,481.S 13,029.5    12,372.1    69,048.3   8.8   61,099.2
Taxes                    54,800.5  1,359.0    4,122.7     861.9  1,119.0      1,124.6     63,387.7   8.8    5,548.0
Foreign Exchang         193,107.6  8,851.1    41,226.9   3,323.2  3,623.9     6,777.1    256,909.7   8.3   21,210.2



- 104 -                                  Table 4.4
INDONESIA
EASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROAS PROJECT
ESrMTED Dls %Mr SCHULE ag
((s$ millon)  
IBRD fisca year                                             Cumultive             Cumulive
and semester                     Disbursements             disbursements         percentage
1994
December 31, 1993                           6                       6                      4
Jue 30, 1994                               14                      20                     13
1995
December 31, 1994                          19                      39                     25
June 30, 1995                              25                      64                     41
1996
December 31, 1995                          25                     89                      57
June 30, 1996                              32                     121                     78
1997
December 31, 1996                          20                     141                     91
June 30, 1997                              10                     151                     97
19
December 31, 1997                           4                     155                    100
/a Asmmes loan effectivens in July 1993, and use of reftoactive financing.



- - - 
= 
N.    _   _1 .1 
-_    _ _ ._ 
fLJ                                         S   



INDONESIA
PASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
Organization of the
Directorate General of Regional Development (DORD)
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mnse _.1
NMa A#*$
Direcor _eneral      G Nncetr al   H g    Director Gee                 Detr Goo" f Gonrl AdmInItraton
of S              o aus    I
sw" of 
E t    ;            <               <        XabDn |~~~~7ws  ~
r  Economic  SccIal&l                  Sac~~gkwari                                  EaWlmomol
__        Govt Mamuln~j                    C.li  Ut8        _t Uan    _wstvf &s
ru*9 ~ ~ ~~~A* &                      R1191 & _m                       ut _Reim                &
f~~LLF] FK  LI1 IF99                                                                                           Strtrlt
SO    MINISTER OFHOMEAFAIWECEnrmeno  rIMrurs                                    EnIrot LMi
SOURCE: MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS' DECIk No.22 ol imZ



INDONESIA
.AS1TERN INDONEIISIA KABUPAlTER ROADS PROJECT
Oreanization of the
P?ovincial Public Works Agencies (DPUP)
HEAD OF DPUP
|ADMINISTRATION|
PERSONNEL    FINANCE       LEGAL      GENERAL
AFFAIRS     AFFAIRS
._   .Li-__            I        __ I__                             _         i -   _  1
EQUIPMENT
PLANNING          IRRIGATION            ROADS            BUILDINGS              &
SUPPLIES
IRRIGATION                              ROAD                        *1 FIRRIATO
P R G A M .i __                       _ _ _           _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _. L.__    _ . _
PROGRIGAMMIRRIGATION                CONSTRUCTION          REGIONAL           EQUIPMENT
ROADS              RIVERS             BRIDGE            BUILDINGS  1 F ROADS
PROGRAMME        &             CONTRUTIO                &EQUIPMENIT
[PROGRAMME             SWAMPS           CONSTRtION           HOUSING         L& SUPPLIES J
BUILDINGS         OPERATIONS            ROAD
PROGRAMME  I&                                             SNTTO               OKHP
MAINTENANCE        MAINTENANCE         SANTION            WORKSHOPS
DESIGN
DESIGN             & ROAD
INVENTORY
SOURCE- MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS INSTRUCTION
No. 14 OF 1986 DATED 20 OCTOBER 1I86.                                                                 I



SASTERN INDONESIA KABUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
Organization of the
Kabupaten Public Works Agency (DPUK)
|HEAD COF
SULDING                                   TOWN AND       I       EQUIPMENT
ROADS   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~RSAITENTIONL.mA
MAINTENANCE                                                     REGIONALRESIDENTIAL
ENVIRONMENT         RGOA  LHMwnto
DESIGN  A NO 
SUPPLIES 
INVENTORYn
v A t;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
SoOCE  UMITEN Of HOME AFFAUS NISTRUCTION
N.. 14 of S9I. IATEO t0 ocToAFR Los|



MAP SECTION



IBSD 24360
\.%-THAILAND          1-ii'r                                                                    IiV1                     130'                    130
,S.W Ah                                                                                                                                                 INDONESA
PHIAPPINES                          EASTERN INDONESIA
at"                                        7                   AUPATEN ROADS PROJECT
MALAYSIA                                           B                                        BUN piCT!
0 aIALA LUMPUR                                   MALAYsIAj                                                 DJOI                       aUIW D IN THE T ED  KWA IN
___ ^ |                   /                                       {                                              /                  _  t Bt>Nt~/ 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OD MtOM Rom 3490 -$                              t                                          A
10 J*                    l>NGAPE                                                                                          WA l   J A W A  ..--;CSz
/4. OtCttA^NDT  ww  Rl
a, Lame                                                                                                              N                           z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~c,[A
ii. SUIANIEUA xMwGeb ,  h i6 x9gKOAIETS ' 
14.   KAJAWANDNARAT                           aEW  GSIA
18. JAUMAA TENGAHM  -W 
17 D. KAOGYAKATAN i
.JAl4ORTlMUR     >c,   2   _ h   reta2s-
it. rUNUKLIL TENGAR
It  SUMAWES SELATAN                                                                                                                                                                            e
21. SJAMBSI1I1GGAA
II2.UMAM                                                                                                    24ARA' 2
14: KLMNTJAWNGARATIM
I KAMAWKU   ELtA
21. SULA-WESI                      SIrur1Wicric                                                                                                    ASTRLIA-RA
22. Om                                                                       27~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMW19



