Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22449
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26510)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 69.2 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY AREAS PROJECT
June 30, 2001
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan-RMBY
RMB 100 = US$ 0.12
US$ = RMBY 8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BEII = Basic Education II Project
CEP = Chinese Experts Panel
EMIS = Education Management Information System
FELO = Foreign Investment and Loan Office
IAG = Innovation Assessment Group
METC= Minority Education Training Center
MOE = Ministry Of Education
MOF = Ministry of Finance
NAEA = National Academy for Education Administration
NYCE = Nine Year Compulsory Education
SAR = Staff Appraisal Report
SDR = Special Drawing Rights
SEDC = State Education Commission
WBOB = World Bank Office Beijing
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Manager/Director    Yukon Huang
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law
Task Tea_ Leader/Task Manager:    Halsey L. Beemer Jr.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR & MINORITY AREA II
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                             1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                            1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                  2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                     3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                       7
6. Sustainability                                                                           9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                            9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                         11
9. Partner Comments                                                                        12
10. Additional Information                                                                13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                       15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                       19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                      23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID. P003636                                       Project Name: CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR &
MINORITY AREA 11
Team Leader: Halsey L. Beemer                             TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: CN-BASIC EDUC IN POOR & MINORITY AREA L/C/TF Number: IDA-26510
11
Country/Department: CHINA                                                Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  06/25/1993                               Effective: 04/07/1995         04/07/1995
Appraisal:  03/18/1994                                MTR: 09/30/1997            09/07/1997
Approval:  09/06/1994                              Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/0200
Borrower/Implementing Agency. PRC/Ministry of Education
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Gautarn S. Kaji
Country Manager.     Yukon Huang                                Nicholas C. Hope
Sector Manager:      Maureen Law                                Vinay K. Bhargava
Team Leader at ICR:   Halsey L. Beemer                          Halsey L. Beemer
ICR Primary Author:   Sandra F. Erb
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance. S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Context. In 1994, when the Chinese Ministry of Education (MOE) and the World Bank began
identification and design work on what was to become the Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas
(Basic Education II or BEID Project, greatest priority was given to the achievement of universal basic
education (UBE) as soon as it was practical in poor, remote and minority areas in order to support China's
goal of development, modernization and elimination of illiteracy. This government priority drove both
targeting and design issues and, after working with the Bank project development team, enabled the MOE
to set the project objectives which were to: (a) support the attainment of universal primary education and
the expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and minority areas, and (b) build stronger
institutions responsible for education delivery. These objectives reflected MOE policies to accelerate
education decentralization by establishing broad principles to guide provincial and local governments in
developing their county and village level education services, to implement the Compulsory Education Law
using the resources available, and pursue their own educational targets, according to their own means.
Important in this process was improving the targeting of education financing to the poorest populations in a
province, increasing the efficiency of the use of these funds, and utilizing available intergovernmental
transfer mechanisms to achieve these objectives. The objectives also fit squarely within Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which gave attention to: (a) efficient resource use, including utilization of
teachers and facilities; (b) more equitable funding mechanisms, targeted to basic education in poor rural
areas; and (c) support for institution building to increase the capacity of education authorities at all levels
to carry out their responsibilities within an increasing operational decentralizations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable
3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: Institutional Development
Cost: US$ 127.0 million
This component included facilities upgrading, improvement in instructional equipment within primary and
junior secondary schools, and training of classroom teachers, school principals and local education
administrators to provide better instruction in and leadership of the education institutions at the provincial,
county and village levels. There was also a small nonnal school pilot activity in two provinces (and later
two provinces and a municipality when Chongqing joined the project as it separated from Sichuan
Province) to assist in rationalizing and strengthening normal school training of primary school teachers.
Component 2. Management Improvement
Cost: US$ 0.7 million
The management improvement component was to develop management capabilities for the education
system at the central, provincial, county and institutional levels through staff training, the provision of
equipment and expert services. Training was provided to local education management authorities and local
project implementation staff. There was also a provision for the development of an education information
system.
Component 3. Quality Enhancement
Cost: US$ 2.6 million
The quality enhancement component promoted innovations and other improvements in primary and lower
secondary schools by supporting a program of self-generated improvement activities and the development
- 2 -



of minority and bilingual book and textbook preparation, production, publication and distribution. This
component also supported the development of the Minority Education Training Center (METC) of the
National Academy of Education Administration (NAEA) which provided training activities and materials
for minority county magistrates and education administrators, and the activities of the Chinese Experts
Panel (CEP).
The design of the three components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The credit
focused on the improvement of facilities to address access issues in poor and remote areas and training at
all levels of the education systems in an effort to strengthen the institutions responsible for the delivery of
education. In addition, the credit gave schools, county and provincial officials the opportunity to
experiment with new ideas on ways to meet local educational needs related to enrolhnent, retention and
quality improvement in the classroom.
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable
3.5 Quality at Entry.
Quality at entry, as assessed by the peer reviewers, was satisfactory based on (i) consistency of objectives
with the priorities of the Ministry of Education (MOE); (ii) successful experience and lessons learned by
the first basic education project which was being implemented at the time of project design; and (iii)
demonstrated capacity of the Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO)/MOE to implement previous
projects; and (iv) project design that was related to MOE decentralization policies and practices.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives and physical outputs under the Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas
Project (BEII) project is satisfactory. The objectives were broad and flexible enough to allow provinces
and counties to implement the Compulsory Education Law and to accelerate the completion at the county
level of the government's Nine Year Compulsory Education (NYCE) program which was instituted early in
the project's implementation period. All of this in accordance with their unique minority and regional
characteristics and within the context of a rapidly decentralizing basic education system. In the end, the
project enabled 105 of the 111 project counties (94 percent) to reach universal primary education and 57
(51 percent) to achieve nine-year compulsory education.
The physical output targets for all provinces in primary, junior secondary and normal schools were met and
in several cases exceeded. They showed robust improvements in safety of buildings, supply of teaching
materials, enrollment of children, and qualifications of teachers and principals. Counterpart funding
provision exceeded the SAR goal by 14 percent. The Innovation Program exceeded expectations in the
quantity and quality of funded activities which sought to respond to issues and programs raised at local
levels. The heavy poverty focus and the success in securing more than adequate counterpart funding of the
project reportedly allowed for large numbers of poor children to enroll and stay in school during the severe
drought periods in several project provinces in the northwest part of China when they would have not been
able to in earlier years. The project helped minority education by the development and distribution of
minority language textbooks and teaching materials, providing training for minority teachers and principals
and national level training for minority county magistrates and education administrators.
During the implementation of the project there was, however, a strong emphasis by the project provinces on
investment inputs. Project design and then current Chinese policy for expanding education in poor rural
- 3 -



areas placed heavy weight on increasing inputs which would help ensure increased access with less regard
to educational outcomes. The borrower's strong reluctance at including any education outcome indicators
is demonstrated by their absence in the project design for this project. This design weakness was noted
during implementation and dealt with in the following two basic education projects, a benefit of having a
sustained relationship with a borrower team in a particular sub-sector and a programmatic approach to
project development which allowed for subsequent projects to build on the experiences and results of earlier
projects.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional Component (US$ 127.0 million SAR, $ 232.5 million Actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. This component was 97 percent of base costs and
supported the following: (a) facilities upgrading; (b) instructional equipment, furniture and books; (c) staff
upgrading, and (d) normal school pilot activity.
Facilities Upgrading. Facilities upgrading was highly successful. In all provinces there was successful
completion of the civil works portion of the project with all project provinces exceeding their original
targets for new construction, rehabilitation and elimination of dangerous buildings. Civil works targets for
repair of dangerous buildings and construction of new classrooms were exceeded by 21 percent. Site visits
by Bank supervision missions and civil works specialists from the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) showed
that on average overall quality of construction was good to very good with little extra funds spent of
decoration and substantial attention given to indigenous designs to deal with local climatic and physical
conditions. The new buildings have provided adequate, safe and hospitable space for village children to
attend school, and the parents, teachers and principals interviewed indicated that the new buildings
encouraged children to attend and stay in school. Maintenance of the schools will be a an ongoing issue as
maintenance budgets are limited. Poor communities have a difficult time collecting the necessary revenues
to support ongoing maintenance, but a recently initiated National School Construction Fund will reportedly
earmark funds for maintenance of these buildings and thus sustain the investments made by this project.
Instructional equipment, furniture and books. This subcomponent is rated satisfactory. Prior to the
BEII project, schools in the project areas had been seriously disadvantaged because there has been no
investments in teaching equipment for 10 years. This project was able to provide 17,398 primary and
lower secondary schools with MOE (fonTerly SEdC) standard equipment levels MOE classifies equipment
needs ("Standard Levels") by school size, centrality and teacher training responsibility, conducts periodic
survey to assess current levels and new procurement needs, and did, for this project identified specific
requirements for project supported schools., 98.65 percent of the SAR target. Even though the schools
have achieved great progress in meeting the MOE standards, the utilization rate of books and equipment
needs to be increased. Science teachers and librarians have been trained but there is still reluctance on the
part of principals and teachers to use the equipment and books for fear equipment will be broken and books
lost or destroyed. These attitudes will need to be changed through continued principal and teacher training
as well as assurance that adequate resources will be made available to the school principals to replace
damaged materials.
Staff Upgrading. This subcomponent is also rated satisfactory although there were weaknesses in design
and delivery of these services. Teacher and education administrator training goals were exceeded by 40
and 33 percent respectively. Project indicators show that all the project provinces have experienced
substantial increases - 118 percent on average above SAR targets - in the qualification rate of teachers
which has meant a reduction in the number of minban teachers. Minban teachers are hired and paid by the
local communities, generally village education committees, and generally do not have the years of formal
education and training that government teachers do. The Ministry of Education, working closely with
- 4 -



provincial education bureaus, has over the recent years upgraded the quality of the minban teachers by
special training and other upgrading programs and have all but eliminated this type of teachers in the
provinces supported by this project. Whereas numerical targets were met or surpassed, quality of the
teacher training programs were a problem throughout the project. Training programs are generally set by
formulae provided by the province which often follow the national standards and show little understanding
of the deeper sense of innovative teacher behavior or teaching theories. School principals have little
contact with the normal schools and colleges which provide the training. Normal schools and 2-3 year
teachers colleges which are responsible for teacher training services are generally run by prefecture
education bureaus and 4 year colleges by the province. Therefore horizontal linkages between the supply
and demand of the services at the county or village level is lacking and training services often ill designed
or poorly delivered. Cascade system of teacher training services demonstrate their inherent weaknesses in
such cases, and efforts to overcome these weaknesses with the focus on normal schools was limited.
The weak quality of teacher training programs became a primary focus of the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
and it developed a Quality Assessment System for teacher training which was introduced throughout the
provinces and municipality in the last two years of the project implementation. A research project has sent
to the MOE by the CEP chairman to check the usefulness of the assessment instrument.
Principal training also met or exceed targets. Principal training conducted at the national level was
reported to have had a substantial impact on broadening the thinking and experience of rural school
principals. Anecdotal evidence shows that school management was improved as a result of training.
Normal School Pilot Activity. This subcomponent, carried out initially in Jiangxi and Sichuan Provinces
and later Chongqing Municipality, is also rated satisfactory having been successfully completed both at the
individual normal school levels. Marginal normal schools at the start of the project were elevated to
first-rate normal school status by China's standards and this was attributed to the Bank credit as being a
catalyst in that counterpart funds were committed more readily and in larger amounts. The schools leaped
from have-not schools to relatively well-equipped ones in a few years. The normal schools benefited from
the project in four ways. First, the completion of civil works has provided up-to-standard physical
conditions for normal school teacher education. Second, the acquisition of facilities, e.g., procurement of
computers, language and science laboratory equipment, musical instruments and library books, has
significantly improved teaching and learning. Third, staff training has improved the quality of
administrative, teaching and technical staff. Fourth, the staff has acquired new approaches to management
from the World Bank and the MOE in the implementation process. Despite the improvement in teaching
and learning brought about by the acquisition of facilities, less attention had been shown on the qualitative
dimension of innovations in teaching, such as in the design of new teaching approaches or change in teacher
behavior independent of technology.
Management Improvement Component (US$ 0.7 million SAR, US$ 1.9 million actual)
The overall rating of this component is satisfactory. This component was designed to develop management
capabilities for the education system at the central, provincial and institutional levels through staff training
and the development of Education Management Information Systems (EMIS). Project implementation
training gave the local staff adequate skills to implement the project although some procurement and
financial management training need to be repeated so as to better understand the overall Bank policies and
procedures. Because of the improved capacity of the implementation staff, several project provinces will
continue to use project implementation staff and offices for the implementation of the Chinese govemment's
own Nine Year Compulsory Education Program - Phase Two (NYCE) as well as other provincial and
county level poverty-alleviation focused activities both within and outside the education sector.
- 5 -



In addition to project-supported training, the provincial implementation staff were trained through an IDF
grant-supported Economics of Education Network (the Network) which provided them with knowledge on
modem techniques and methods in education management and resource utilization. As a result of all of the
training, provincial education managers are demonstrating a more thorough understanding of how better to
manage their education finance systems.
EMIS was organized in each province, region and municipality, equipment bought and installed and
training was completed. It is evident from the increasingly improved statistical reporting provided the Bank
during project implementation, that the equipment, software and training have had a strong impact on
provincial project implementation. However, efficient means of using the data derived from the systems in
the development of overall provincial education planning is not yet obvious. The Network developed
training modules to assist provinces and counties in understanding how to utilize their educational data for
planning and through continuous training will work on improving the understanding of these techniques and
methods, but as has been demonstrated in earlier Bank-supported education projects, full, useful and
sophisticated utilization of education statistics depends greatly on the needs for and uses made of this data
by education administrators. Without the demand there is little use of EMIS equipment, software and
training.
Quality Enhancement Component. (US$ 2.6 million SAR, US$ 5.2 million actual)
The overall rating for this component is satisfactory. This component was designed to promote innovations
and other improvements in primary and lower secondary schools by supporting a program of self-generated
improvement activities as well as support a national human resource capacity building programs and the
training of minority county magistrates at the Minority Education Training Center, and the activities of the
Chinese Experts Panel (CEP).
Innovation Program. This sub-component is judged to be highly successful. The program, which was
built on locally developed proposals, helped local leaders find solutions to many problems, from teacher
training, to reducing the cost of education, from developing new models of school mapping schemes to
attracting minority girls to school. The innovation grant process encouraged local educators to take an
active role in diagnosing their own educational issues and finding their own solutions. In this respect the
larger impact of the program may be that it helps to achieve a shift in organizational behavior toward more
active and creative management at the local level. Provincial education implementation units reported that
this component of the project was perhaps one of the most generative and creative elements of the project,
allowing for the development of research capacity at local levels where it had never previously existed.
Small amounts of funding were available to solve local issues such as developing and introducing into the
curriculum training courses responsive to local economic needs, and persistent social issues such as low
girls enrollments at the lower secondary school levels. The design of the Innovation Program could have
included a better mechanism for the systematic review of the impact of the individual programs. There was
also a need to include resources for the dissemination of experiences. The Innovations Assessment Group
(IAG) provided excellent leadership through its encouragement of local managers to complete projects with
the same spirit and attention to quality with which they began. However, the project design did not
anticipate a strong evaluation role for the IAG and as a result the role of the IAG was not institutionalized
to the same extent of the Chinese Experts Panel (CEP).
Chinese Experts Panel. This sub-component is rated highly satisfactory. The Chinese Experts Panel
(CEP) consisted of four educators who provided ongoing guidance and advice to MOE and the provinces
on project implementation and policy issues related to the project. The CEP played an invaluable role in
-6 -



project implementation by participating in semi-annual site visits as well as providing policy advice on such
things as teacher education. After the CEP and Bank supervision mission found weaknesses in the teacher
training programs, the CEP introduced a Training Quality Assessment System which sought to tie school
needs with real training delivery. This initiative, and follow-on provided by the CEP in this area, provided
better teacher training services by the end of the project and is still being used by the project provinces.
Minority Education Training Center (METC). Implementation of investments in the Minority
Education Training Center sub-component was satisfactory. The center constructed new building and
organized seminars for county level education directors and primary and secondary school principals on
education administration. The overall impact of this sub-component is difficult to judge although anecdotal
evidence from those who have gone through the program and are from minority areas shows that county
administrators and school principals were introduced to many new education management concepts.
Perhaps the most important benefit of the training at the METC was the opportunity for principals to travel
to Beijing and spend one week with principals and teachers in Beijing schools. This broadened the thinking
of all the trainees and reportedly widened their horizons substantially. In addition, important linkages were
made between the rural school principals and Beijing which continue to provide ongoing support for the
rural school principals. Costs of participation in this program are significant in that minority counties tend
to be the furthest from Beijing where the training is given, and transportation costs can be very high.
Additionally, minority counties tend to be among the poorest of China's counties and the lest able to
shoulder such costs. The METC should either consider taking the training to regional centers or providing
travel subsidies. If these minority training programs are seen by the central government to be high national
political and educational priority, the national government should more seriously consider underwriting
some of the costs of the training, otherwise the minority county officials will find the programs expensive
and activities on which it is not worth spending their local funds.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact was satisfactory. 94 percent of the project-supported counties have
been able to build their primary education systems so that they meet, and in some cases exceed, the MOE
minimum services standards for delivery of education. This allowed project-supported counties to
accelerate by as much as two years achieving universal primary education as defined by the Central
government and was a project goal, and in 51 percent of the counties, Nine Year Compulsory Education
(NYCE) which is now a national education goal. The establishment of the Minority Education Training
Center now provides a continuing opportunity to train county level magistrates and education
administrators in the special needs of minority populations in the poor parts of China. The Innovation
Program as developed a research capacity at the county levels in several counties where it did not exist
before.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Currency fluctuation of the SDR reduced the overall level of funding available from the Credit. Although
this did not have a negative impact on project implementation it did require additional counterpart money
thereby placing additional burden on poor counties to cover the costs of the exchange rate losses. All
counterpart funding targets were met or exceeded although as a disproportionately heavy burden on county
- 7 -



finances as opposed to provincial or national finances.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Project implementation went well with few problems encountered. Project management at all levels was
strong and efficient. This can be seen by the fact at mid-term disbursements had reached 70 percent of the
IDA funds and project indicators for other deliverables were substantially ahead of schedule. However, the
process of by which the Ministry of Finance responded to reimbursement requests from counties could have
been improved and the delivery of this service accelerated. Several counties during the life of the project
were forced to borrow from commercial banks in order to cover expenses due to long lags in the
reimbursement process. Poor counties have few resources and borrowing at short-term commercial rates
offsets any potential benefit from an IDA credit. During the implementation of the project, the National
Audit Bureau and the individual provincial audit departments improved their audit coverage providing
both the MOE's national implementing unit and the Bank supervision teams with additional tools with
which to monitor the financial flows of the project thus reducing the incidence of misuse of project funds
and the periodic shortfalls in counterpart funding provision. The strengthening of the national and
provincial audit system was an important element of the government's ongoing concern to inprove the
quality of provincial and county level implementation of Bank-supported project.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Strong commitment and efficient and good leadership with effective problem solving demonstrated by FILO
provided the foundation for implementation to continuously exceed SAR targets with regard to human
resource development, performance monitoring and project coordination. FILO has a long history of
effective project implementation and was able to work with provinces and counties to institutionalize strong
project management units. The Innovation Advisory Group (IAG) held workshops to provide guidance on
proposal preparation, actively helped provinces design action research activities, and disseminated lessons
learned. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) consistently added value to supervision in such areas as teacher
training activities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Full disbursements of the total equivalent of the project's 69.2 million SDRs were made by the completion
of the project. However, due to the fluctuations of the US Dollar exchange rate with the SDR during the
project, the total US Dollars disbursed from the credit were US$ 97.5 million and not the US$ 100 million
estimated at appraisal.
The current project cost, US$ 243.5 million, is substantially higher than the SAR estimate of US$ 177.0
million and is a reflection of the high levels of counterpart funding which was made available during the
implementation of the project. During project negotiations the MOE stipulated that the IDA:Government
counterpart ratio would be 1:0.77 but once the onlending agreements were made between the MOF and the
provinces, the ratio was increased by the government to 1:1. As is evident from the final project costs, this
ratio was over-achieved by the MOE and the project provinces. Counterpart funding for project
investments came from the province, prefecture and county and it is apparent that the lure of Bank
financing was used to gather counterpart funding at levels far exceeding the goals set in project design
documents. However, this has, in some case, been a substantial burden on village households as these
funds are collected as part of the local education surcharge system.
During project preparation efforts were made to increase the percentage of the locally provided
counterparts funding which would come from the province while decreasing the amount which would come
from the counties. Agreements were reached with the MOE and the provinces on this ratio of counterpart
cost-sharing responsibility but in the end, these agreements proved difficult to manage, and a heavy burden
- 8-



fell on the poor counties to fulfill counterpart target obligation. As these same provinces and counties will
have to start repaying the IDA credit, and most likely from provincial and county education budgets,
caution must be taken in the design of future poverty focused education projects to fully take not only the
assumed counterpart obligations but also the future repayment responsibilities into account when
calculating project sustainability. Supervision mission must carefully monitor the provision of counterpart
funds in order that the burden does not become overbearing.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The provinces have recognized the need for continuing support of the project schools from the inception of
the project by providing a yearly maintenance plan for civil works, equipment and teachers training. Future
sustainability plans have been provided by each province as an annex to the borrower portion of the ICR.
The project has demonstrated the usefulness of project development and implementation approach modeled
after Bank methods for the support of the government's own nine-year compulsory education program.
With participation of these provinces in later Bank-supported projects as well as the MOE National Nine
Year Compulsory Education Project - Phase Two (2001-2006) and the National School Rehabilitation
program, there is a high assurance that they will continue to support the project schools in the coming
years. Due to the low population growth in China there will not be a rapid increase in the primary and
lower secondary school enrollments; therefore more attention can be give to maintenance of the system
rather than expansion of the system.
Throughout the project implementation the provinces and counties proved their commitment to the project
by giving their financial support and management support to all the project activities. However, new
changes which have been pilot tested in Anhui province in the county level revenue system which is in the
process of eliminating fees and education surcharges in favor of a comprehensive country-wide tax system
may have a potential negative impact on education financing at the local level. This is being monitored
carefully by the State Council, Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOE so that appropriate adjustments in
intergovernmental transfers, a system based largely on World Bank project design and policy advice, can
be made so as to offset some of the negative impact of the new tax system.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
All project activities have been fully integrated into the regular operations of the provinces and counties.
This project was designed to fit into the MOE's overall plans to achieve NYCE therefore, there is no need
for special transition arrangements. The Government of China's (GOC) goals for achieving NYCE are
well articulated and resources, both human and financial, have been allocated within the GOC to continue
and expand their efforts. The GOC has just launched a 10 year program for the development of the "
Westem Areas" and these project provinces and their educational needs fit squarely within the Western
Areas Development Program.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank lending in this sector, as well as AAA work, has covered all education sub-sectors and provided the
foundation for ongoing policy dialogue and guidance for the whole sector. The Bank's focus on basic
education, which has been programmatic in its coverage but project focused in its delivery, has been able to
support incremental steps forward in reforming and improving education financing, poverty targeting, and
the design of poverty focused projects. Working with the borrower on assessment of these issues has kept
the Bank engaged in this sub-sector where the borrower has said that project financing is less important
-9-



than access, at the provincial level, to new ideas and relevant international experience. Bank lending has
also provided incremental additional funding for the challenges of increasing educational access for poor
and minority children in the poorest parts of China were the costs for providing that access is high and
availability of local funds, especially at the county level, problematic.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision has been robust, focused and diligent, identifying and resolving educational as well as
financial management and procurement problems. Cluster supervision of parties of currently implementing
basic education projects and heavy use of WBOB staff has brought both efficiencies and synergies to the
supervision process. The mission's heavy reliance on county and provincial audit materials and reports
augmented the supervision process in a way that strengthened the local government's own responsibility for
managing and implementing these projects.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's overall perfonnance was satisfactory. In lending activities, comprehensive teams were fielded
with many members maintained throughout supervision. Supervision missions included the required
expertise and local staff monitored project activities when necessary.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Department of Finance of MOE coordinated with the Provincial, Municipal and County Education
Bureaus to carefully develop proposals and collect the necessary data and information for project
preparation. They also fielded a comprehensive team of Chinese experts that comprised educators and
previous Bank project implementation expertise so assist in the development of the project. These
individuals continued to provide advise to MOE during implementation as members of the Chinese Experts
Panel. Government of China goals for this project were clearly articulated from the start and consistently
supported by the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, the State Planning (and Development)
Commission and all the provincial and county units with which the preparation team worked.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The overall government implementation performance was highly satisfactory. The Government of China,
at both the national and provincial levels, has 20 years experience with implementation of Bank-support
education projects. GOC at all levels within MOF and MOE have established institutions that understand
the intricacies of Bank-supported projects which facilitates the smooth implementation of education
projects. The borrower also provided the necessary counterpart funds, often in excess of SAR targets, to
complete all project-supported activities. Of special note is the proactive way in which the MOE, working
in consort with the MOF and the State Audit Bureau, identified and took corrective action when it became
evident that case of misuse of project funds were discovered. The flow of reimbursements through the
finance bureaus at the provincial and county level could have been quicker. This would have eliminated the
need for poor counties to borrow at commercial rates to pay for outstanding contractual commitments.
It is interesting to note that the MOE, during project implementation, worked with the Ministry of Finance
to develop an intergovernmental transfer system which provided central education budget funds directly to
targeted poor counties. In so doing, the MOE and MOF took the model of the World Bank's project
design, development and implementation and applied it to the design of their own poverty focused education
fund, requiring counties and provinces to prepare project proposals which included education and financing
targets, monitorable indicators and annual review of action plans and budgets. This unintended transfer of
project development models from the World Bank remains in place and has been expanded to an additional
central intergovernmental transfer program, started in 2001, which deals specifically with school repair and
- 10 -



construction in poor areas.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The overall performance of the implementing agency was highly successful. The implanting agency at the
center - the MOE's Foreign Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and their partners at the provincial level -
the Provincial World Bank Project Implementation Units - provided consistently good direction and
support for the implementation of the project. FILO organized and ran, with help from the World Bank
Office Beijing (WBOB) staff, a number of provincial level training programs for procurement and financial
management. Several of these training programns had to be repeated because of staff changes in the
provincial level implementing units. FILO worked closely with the WBOB and the Task Team Leader to
develop and implement a prior review system of procurement which was highly successful and produced a
virtually flawless procurement process with no mis-procurements. Likewise, working closely with the
WBOB staff and the TTL and the State Audit Bureau, FILO was able to monitor closely the flows of
project financing and ensure that cases of misuse of project funds were quickly and successfully dealt with.
FILO's monitoring of the counterpart provision was persistent and ongoing with good results. FILO
worked with the Bank missions on resolving one of the project's most difficult problems, establishing the
correct strategic direction for the restructuring of the three project provinces normal schools. This latter
effort needed the sustained attention of the FILO task manager, working closely with the CEP to
recommend solutions and then organizing a nomnal school principal's workshop to strengthen the direction
of that component. Toward the end of the project the direct and personal involvement of the FILO Deputy
Director in the supervision of the project was a welcome addition in that it helped sustain provincial
attention on the need to maintain implementation rigor up until the final days of the project. All in all, the
service of the implementing agency was excellent.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. In line with a good record in designing, preparing
and implementing the IDA assisted education project, the MOE demonstrated satisfactory performance in
preparing and implementing this project.
8. Lessons Learned
o Poverty focused social service delivery projects should be increasingly targeted at the township rather
than the county level. With more than half of China's absolute poor living outside the 592 nationally
designated counties, targeting at the poor township level will more effectively include larger
percentages of the absolute poor. However, in that townships lack the adequate administrative capacity
to manage such poverty targeted projects, the counties should be given chief administrative
responsibility for such projects.
* As provinces and counties which have benefited from IDA and IBRD financing have to repay the
credits or loans, and most likely from provincial and county education budgets, caution must be taken
in the design of future poverty focused education projects to fully take into consideration not only the
assumed counterpart obligations but also the future repayment responsibilities into account when
calculating project sustainability.
* The key issue in developing education projects at the provincial, county and township levels is to
convince the Chinese preparation teams that focusing on development outcomes is more important then
emphasis on investment inputs.
- 11 -



*   Educational outcomes from a project such as this cannot be measured without good outcome
indicators, and project preparation teams must be diligent in working with the borrower to obtain
agreement on these outcome indicators during the earliest stages of project design.
* Establishing experts panels with a broad range of educational skills from the start of the targeting
exercise ensures the project of some balance in educational, financial and staffing needs. These panels
are useful in reviewing provincial proposals, supervising the implementation of projects, assessing
progress at mid term and with the final completion reports. Responsible to the provincial and/or
national education authorities, they can be used to do studies which can change the direction of projects
under implementation, give added emphasis to an element and provide technical advice to county and
school level educators.
*   Teacher and staff training components have been chronically weak in Bank supported basic education
projects. Training programs are generally set but formulae provided by the province which often
follow the national standards. School principals have little contact with the normal schools and
colleges which provide the training. Normal schools. have few horizontal links with the counties and
villages where the of the services comes from. This should be considered carefully in the development
of an new project.
*   Much of project design for the National Nine Year Compulsory Education Programs, which is the joint
work of the MOF and the MOE Finance Department, appears to be driven by prospective formulae
from Beijing which must be carefully understood. Some is positive and useful (i.e., only poor counties
get money, provincial proposals have to be presented, reviewed and approved, etc.) but some can be
regressive and difficult to deal with (i.e., set numbers of square meters of contraction per students
regardless of geographic location, overly generous numbers of laboratories in a school which hinders
efficiencies, etc.). These guidelines from Beijing often drive up capital costs and limit local abilities to
increase efficiencies.
*   Language of instruction issues in minority language areas are important and the answers as to which
system to be used (and thereby supported by a project) are not always self evident. Social surveys are
one way to get to the bottom of this issue; talking with parents and grandparents is important.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
All project components were accomplished and satisfactory. The implementation of the project greatly
improved the school conditions and teaching quality in poor and minority areas, which played an important
role in the acceleration of the universalization of nine-year of elementary compulsory education in poor
areas. The project was implemented smoothly during the implementation period and the implementation
quality was good generally. All project output targets were met and some exceeded. The Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO/MOE) strengthened national level management training early in the
project, in which FILO invited staff from the Education Development in Poor Provinces Project to
introduce their experiences and lessons on project implementation. FILO also provided a lot of guidance to
the project provinces procurement of civil works and good. FILO fulfilled its task in project supervision,
provided guidance to project units and coordination with departments concerned. FILO/MOE have very
good cooperation with the Bank in implementation period. From the beginning of the project, the task
manager on the World Bank and Bank consultants paid much attention to the quality of the project. They
provided lots of valuable suggestions during site visits to the project provinces and helped provinces solve
problems which appeared in the implementation period which guarantee the smooth implementation of the
- 12-



project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not Applicable
(c) Otherpartners (NGOs/private sector):
Not Applicable
10. Additional Information
- 13-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
1. Number and percentage of dangerous    80.0002.0%                       70,000/1.75%
teaching and dormitory areas in square
meters :
2. Number and percentage of schools  15,924 - 95%                         16.476 - 98.29%
achieving appropriate SEdC equipmert
standards:
3. Net enrollment rate of girs at first grade: 94.5%                      96%
4. Percentage repetition of first grade.  12.0                            9.0
5. Net completion ratio of students from  94.0                            96.0
grades one and two of projed primary
schools:
6. Net competion ratio of girls from grades  92.0                         94.0
one and two of project primary schoo*:
7. Net completion rate of primary school of  85.0                         85.0
15 year olds:
8. Transition rate into lower middle schools: 65.0                        75.0
9. Transition rate of girts/ninorities into  60.0                         70.0
lower middle schools:
10. Studert teacher ratio:           23.0                                 23.0
11. Number and percentage of qualified  27,445 -105 %                    30,921 -118.3%
teachers:
12. Number and percentage of teachers who 49.725 -100%                   51,706 -104.0%
received continuing education:
13. Nunber and percentage of teachers who 5.128 -100%                     5,695 -111.1%
received bilingual training:
14. Number and percentage of pdncipals   11.237 -120%                     15,301 -163A%
who received training-
15. Number of students receiving free  13,710                            20,000
textbooks:
This project was developed prior to the new log frame indicator format therefore, the indicators listed above
are output indicators rather than outcome or impact in nature. No overall project indicators were developed
at the beginning of implementation, just indicators to measure individual provincial educational progress.
Therefore, project indicators provided above and marked with (*) are indicative of only one project
province, Guangxi and they are only for primary schools. There are indicators for junior secondary schools
as well as Normal Schools for Sichuan and Jiangxi province. Those indicators without the (*) are from the
Borrower ICR and are numerical tabulations, where appropriate and useful, of the all the provinces'
indicators combined. Other individual provincial indicators can be found in the Borrower ICR subnitted
December 2000.
Output Indicators:
End of project
- 14 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estinate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
A. Institutional Component
1. Facilities Upgrading                         91048.30       173321.04           190
2. Instruction Equipment/Books/Furniture         25291.80       49054.37           194
3. Staff Development                             10678.10       15484.77           146
B. Management Improvement Component
1. Management Training                            315.90          731.88           232
2. Education Management Information System         400.00         453.35           113
C. Quality Enhancement Component
1. Innovations                                    1570.90        2393.67           159
2. National Capacity Building                     1000.00        2038.20           204
Total Baseline Cost                             130305.00      243477.28
Physical Contingencies                           9426.70
Price Contingencies                             37294.60
Total Project Costs        177026.30       243477.28
Total Financing Required         177026.30
._______________ _______________ _______________   ___________ 243477.28
- 15-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Metlhod,~
Exeprendture; Ctegory        C            NCB                2    tN.F. i          Total Cost
____:_______ _N        S         " Other
1. Works                       0.00          108.00         24.00          0.00         132.00
(0.00)        (54.00)       (11.40)        (0.00)        (65.40
2. Goods                       0.00           25.40          5.70          0.00          31.10
(0.00)        (19.40)        (4.90)        (0.00)        (24.30)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance        0.00           0.00           11.80          0.00         11.80
(0.00)        (0.00)         (8.20)        (0.00)        (8.20)
5. Innovations/National        0.00           0.00           2.10          0.00          2.10
Capacity Building              (0.00)         (0.00)        (2.10)        (0.00)         (2.10)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00          133.40        43.60           0.00         177.00
(0.00)        (73.40)       (26.60)         (0.00)      (100.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
T           ~~Procureet Mthd
Expenditure cat-goiy        ICB                         Ohe           N8.F.       Total  Cost:t
1. Works                       0.00          147.32         26.00          0.00        173.32
(0.00)        (56.93)       (10.17)        (0.00)       (67.10)
2. Goods                       0.00          44.55          4.96           0.00         49.51
(0.00)        (20.43)        (1.79)        (0.00)       (22.22)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Technical Assistance        0.00           0.00          18.25          0.00         18.25
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.11)         (0.00)        (6.11)
5. InnovationslNational        0.00           0.00          2.39           0.00         2.39
Capacity Building              (0.00)        (0.00)         (2.07)        (0.00)        (2.07)
6. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                        0.00         191.87         51.60          0.00         243.47
(0.00)        (77.36)       (20.14)        (0.00)       (97.50)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 16 -



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Perce-ftage of Appraisal
Componen-             Appraisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate
___________ Bank    Govt.    CoF.      Bank      Govt.    CoF.       ank   Govt_  CoF.
Government of China               77.00                        145.60    0.00            189.1
IDA                    100.00               0.00     97.90                        97.9          0.0
The actual IDA disbursement level is less than the original US$100 million due to the SDR/US$ currency
fluctuations. In addition, the Basic Education in Poor and Minorities Area Project only calculated overall
project financing. It did not record project financing by component because the project was prepared prior
to this requirement
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable
-18 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                    No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)      Implementation  Development
MondtYear    Count              Specialty                        Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
9/93                          4   2 Educators, I HR Economist, I        S              S
Textbook Specialist
1/94                          7   4 Educators, 1 HR Economist, 1        S              S
TA specialist, 1 Civil
Engineer/Procurement
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/94 -Appraisal               5   2 Educators, 1 HR                     S              S
Economist, 1 TA Specialist,
1 Operations Officer
7/94 -Negotiation             5    1 Task Manager, 1 Lawyer, 1          S              S
Disbursement Officer, I TA
Specialist, I Operations Officer
Supervision
10/99                         6   3 Educators, I Operations             S              S
Officer, 1 Procurement, 1
FMS
5/99                          3   2 Educators, 1 Procurement            S              S
1/99                          1   1 Operations                          S              S
8/98                          2   1 Educator, 1 Procurement             S              S
9/97 Mid-term                 6   3 Educators, I Operations             S              S
Officer, 2 Procurement
3-4/97                        2   1 Educator, 1 Operations Officer      S              S
1/97                          3   1 Educator, I Operations Officer,     S              S
I Procurement
3/96                          3   2 Educator, 1 Teacher Training        S              S
Specialist, 1 Operations Officer
11/95                         6   1 Educator, I Project Analyst, 1 O  i
Operations Specialists, 1 FMS, 2
Procurement
9/94 Launch                    7   2 Educators, 1 HR Economist, 2       5              S
Operations Officers,   i
Disbursement, I Procurement
ICR
6/01                          3    1 Educator, I Operations             S              S
Officer, I Teacher Trainer
- 19-



(b) Staff:
i     Stage of Project Cyclc                     Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                  50                        280.0
Appraisal/Negotiation                       34                        140.0
Supervision                                120                        340.0
ICR                                          6                         30.0
Total                                      210                        790.0
These figures are estirates based on the project preparation file information, supervision aide-memoires,
590 forms and staff salary information that is available.
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                         O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
ai Sector Policies                        O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
0 Physical                                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
L Institutional Development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Gender                            OH *SUOM ON ONA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Li Private sector development             0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
LI Preparation                                       OHS OS  O u  O HU
LI Government implementation performance             O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
0 Implementation agency performance                  O HS OS  0 U  0 HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS  OU  O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Borrower Project Implementation Completion Report including full Annexes
ICR Mission Consultants Report.
- 23 -



CHINA
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY AREAS PROJECT
(Cr.2651-CHA)
PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Projects Division
Foreign Investment & Loan Office
Ministry of Education
People's Republic of China
December 2000
- 24 -



CHINA
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY AREAS PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
A. Project Overview
B. Project Implementation
(a) Disbursements/Reimbursements
(b) Indicators
(c) Civil Works
(d) Equipment and Books
(e) Furniture
(f) Training Program
(g) Management Information System
(h) Normal School Program
(i) Innovation Program
(j) Chinese Experts Panel
(k) Minority Education Training Center
C. Main Issues and Recommendations
D. Project Sustainability Plan
E. Data Forms
Annex 1 Counterpart Funds Expenditure
Annex 2 Credit Funds Expenditure
Annex 3 Civil Works Progress
Annex 4 Procurement Progress of Equipment
Annex 5 Procurement of Furniture
Annex 6 Procurement of Books
Annex 7 Progress of Technical Assistance
Annex 8 Progress of Project indicators
Annex 9 Sustainability Plan
Annex: Project Implementation Completion Reports of Six Provinces and One Municipality
- 25 -



CHINA
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY AREAS PROJECT
(Cr.2651-CHA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
A. PROJECT OVERVIEW
The Credit Agreement of the above project, signed by the World Bank and the Chinese
Government on November 8, 1994, became effective on April 7, 1995. The project is completed
by December 31, 1999 (on time), with a Closing Date of December 31, 2000. Total project costs
are estimated at about US$222 million equivalent. The World Bank provides SDR69.2 million
(US$100 million equivalent) for the project and the Chinese Government promised to provide
RMBY1.06 billion (US$122 million equivalent) counterpart funds.
The principal goal of this project is to support the attainment of universal primary
education and the expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and minority
areas. This would be achieved by: (a) improving the quality and effectiveness of educational
inputs to teaching points, primary schools, lower secondary schools and rural normal schools in
poor and minority areas; (b) improving management of schools at the primary, lower secondary
and normal schools levels as well as the educational system at all levels; and (c) facilitating
innovative programs.
The beneficiaries of the project include: (a) 111 project counties of six provinces and
autonomous regions as well as one municipality which are Jiangxi, Guangxi, Sichuan, Inner
Mongolia, Xinjiang, Ningxia and Chongqing; (b) 21 normal schools of Jiangxi, Sichuan and
Chongqing; (c) National Academy of Education Administration affiliated with the Ministry of
Education. The number of project provinces and regions has grown from six to six and one
municipality, Chongqing since Chongqing became a full self-administering municipality directly
under the State Council in April, 1997. By the end of 1997, Chongqing had completed all the
procedures in the transferring of the related matters on the above project from Sichuan.
B. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overall Status
Based on the progress reports submitted by project provinces, virtually all input indicators
are running well ahead of project targets and all project goals are fully achieved. Five years into
the project implementation greatly improved the school conditions and accelerated the
universalization of nine-year compulsory education in poor and minority areas. According to the
reimbursement data provided by the Ministry of Finance, as of the end July 2000, the disbursed
amount by project provinces is SDR69.24 million, accounting for 100.0 percent of total credit
69.20 million. Counterpart funds accumulation, allocation and utilization is running at 114.25
- 26 -



percent of total project target. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) made substantial intellectual
contributions especially in the education quality aspects of the project. The Innovation
Assessment Group (IAG) played an important role in the review and approval of the innovation
proposals of provinces as well as providing guidance for provinces to prepare for the proposals.
The World Bank's supervision missions made lots of valuable recommendations and contributed
to the success of the project impiementation in the past five years.
As of June 30, 2000, all project provinces had exceeded the total planned construction
square meters in the planned number of schools and all equipment and books procured have been
delivered to project schools and in use. Xinjiang, moving at a somewhat slower pace in the first
three years, accelerated its project implementation speed in the last two years and completed its
project targets so far. Provincial management training and teachers training had surpassed their
targets by 39.8% and 33.3% respectively. Minority Education Training Center affiliated with
National Academy of Education Administration (NAEA) had completed its civil construction
and equipment procurement early in 1997.
Disbursements/Reimbursements
The provinces reported that by the end June 2000, RMBY1.21 billion counterpart finds
had been collected, allocated and utilized, making up 114.25% of the total plan. The collection of
individual range from 99.05% for Jinagxi to 165.73% for Chongqing.
As the reimbursement are partially dependant on the current US dollar exchange rate of
the SDRs, 69.2 million SDR was equivalent to US$ 100 million at project preparation period. But
now its equivalence is less than 100 million US dollar. All planned SDRs had been reimbursed
so far. US$97.49 million had been disbursed for all provinces by June 30, 2000, maling up
97.50% of the total planned US dollar. The individual level of credit (US dollar) disbursement
ranged from 95.38% for Xinjiang to 98.66% for Inner Mongolia. The following is SDR data on
the overall disbursements by project provinces as of July 31, 2000 which is provided by Ministry
of Finance.
Provinces      Disbursed SDRs   Percent Disbursed
Guangxi        13,346,895.32         99.42
Jiangxi        12,095,820.79         98.75
inner Mongolia  12,128,518.99        99.58
Ningxia         3,595,277.09         99.91
Xinjiang       13,539,717.41         100.34
Sichuan        11,202,467.73         100.95
Chongqing       2,432,825.39         98.64
NAEA             904,839.08          130.76
Total          69,246,361.80         100.07
Indicators
- 27 -



Based on the data provided by project provinces, virtually all project efficiency
indicators' targets have been achieved or exceeded, and the indicators show substantial progress
since 1992. Especially impressive are the girls enrolment rates( both in primary and lower
secondary schools), transition rate from primary to lower secondary schools which have
improved substantially. Through the procurement for civil works, equipment and books,
percentage of dangerous buildings decreased and equipment percentage achieving Ministry of
Education(MOE) standard increased in all project provinces. Training program improved the
percentage of qualified teachers greatly.
Civil Works
Under this project, all project county Foreign Investment and Loan Offices (FILOs)
procured all the civil works through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and National
Shopping. The procurement for civil works has been carried out quickly. All the project
provinces (including Chongqing) had completed more than 100% of the planned target in the
first four years. By the end June 2000, 98.91% of the total planned credit(US dollar) of this part
had been disbursed and 128.06% of the planned counterpart funds had been collected and
utilized for six project provinces and Chongqing municipality.
All provinces have over reached total target by 21% in terms of square meters by June 30,
2000. 5,110,623 square meters had been completed in either new construction or extension &
rehabilitation or repairs, making up 121.61% of the total of civil works target for the six
provinces and one municipality. 1,684,970 square meters, making up 126.96% of planned new
construction areas had been completed by the provinces. 1,459,317 square meters, representing
112.87% of planned extension & rehabilitation areas had been completed, and 124.77% of
planned repairs areas had been completed.
The quality-monitor station at the county level sent special staff to the field to monitor the
quality of construction when the building was being constructed, and the county level project
officers often went to the construction field to ensure the quality of the buildings. The final
acceptance for civil works has been jointly done by the county construction quality inspection
station, construction commission and education commission. During site visits by FILO/MOE,
CEP and Bank missions, quality of the construction showed good in all provinces. Teachers and
student families were satisfied with the school buildings.
It seems that the maintenance of the school building is always a problem. In the sustainability
plan for the next five years, each province promised to allocate a certain money for civil works
maintenance in order that the investment will continue to provide economic and efficient
buildings well into the next century.
EquiDiment and Books
Under this project, equipment and books were procured by provincial FILOs through
NCB and then distributed to counties and schools. By the end June 2000, all the provinces had
completed their procurement for equipment and books. Xinjiang which moved slowly in the
- 28 -



procurement in the first three years speeded up and completed its equipment and books
procurement in 1999. The Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Procedures have been followed
strictly and procurement methods have been used by all provinces.
As of the end June 2000, US$13.26 million, making up 96.35% of credit funds had been
disbursed for equipment for all the provinces. RMBY101.02 million, making up 91.47% of
counterpart funds had been expended. All equipment covered 16,476 primary and lower
secondary schools, representing 98.29% of the total planned number of schools.
In terms of books procurement, as of the end June 2000, US$5.83 million, accounting for
98.08% of the total planned credit had been disbursed by all provinces. RMBY76.04 million,
accounting for 80.52% of planned counterpart funds had been expended. 28,480,289 copies of
books, making up 105.82% of planned copies, had been distributed to 27,129 primary and lower
secondary schools, which represented 105.28% of planned number of schools.
Furniture
Furniture are also procured by project county FILOs through NCB and National
Shopping. By June 30, 2000, RMBY46.18 million, making up 107.23% of the total planned
counterpart funds had been expended by all provinces. US$2.86 million, making up 102.01% of
planned credit had been disbursed. 966,461 sets of furniture, making up 107.53% of planned sets,
had been distributed to 17,398 primary and lower secondary schools, accounting for 98.65% of
planned number of schools.
Trainine Proerams
National Level Workshops All planned national level training workshops or seminars
had been conducted by the end of 1998. The table below summarizes the details.
Type of Trainine                             No. Of Trainees
(1) Civil Works Management (1)                  109
(2) Civil Works Management (I)                   102
(3) Civil Works Procurement                      35
(4) Equipment Procurement(l)                      6
(5) Equipment Procurement (Il)                    6
(6) Project Management (1)                       12
(7) Middle School Principals                     48
(8) Vocational Education in Minority areas       25
(9) Supervision and Evaluation on Basic Education  60
(I O)Project Management (II)                    112
(1 l)Finance Management                          12
(12)Primary Schools Principals                   52
(13)County Education Bureau Directors            82
(1 4)Librarian Training (1)                      42
- 29 -



(1 5)Librarian Training (11)                      53
(16)Teaching Methodology of Science Subjects      32
(I 7)Multi-function School Experiment             34
(18)Normal School Principals Training             23
(19)Bilingual Teaching ninovation                 23
(20) County Magistrate                            87
(21) Education Resource Allocation                42
Total                                            997
Since some project counties did not attend the county magistrate workshop held in 1998.
Another same content workshop was held in May 1999 for those counties who were absent from
the first workshop.
Provincial Level Training   In addition to the national level workshops, each project
province held management related workshops in such areas as civil works management, MIS,
project management, equipment procurement, project audit and finance management. The
implementation progress for management staff training is quite good and training activities are
ahead of project target. By the end June 2000, training has been conducted for 5,482 person times
in the above various training categories, accounting for 139.8% of the total planned number.
In terms of provincial teachers training, as of the end June 2000, 174,165 person times of
teachers had taken part in short-term and long-term training programs to upgrade their academic
qualifications, speciality certificate, multigrade teaching, lab. management and teaching,
bilingual teaching, library management, continuing education and for principals skill and
management, which represented 133.3% of planned number. Principal training had been given
great importance by all provinces and had surpassed the overall project target by 63.4%.
However, the progress is uneven in terms of quantity by provinces. Training of multigrade
teacher in Inner Mongolia only completed 83.3% of its total target. During site visits, teachers
were pleased generally with the training they had received.
As of the end June 2000, RMBY72.73 million counterpart funds had been utilized by all
provinces of this part, representing 95.11% of the total planned. US$5.84 million credit had been
disbursed, making up 93.49% of project planned.
Study Tours   Six study tours have been finished in the project implementation period
including:
(1) Education Evaluation to the United States
(2) Education Evaluation to Australia
(3) Equipment Utilization to Australia
(4) Girls Education, Bilingual Teaching and Basic Education to Australia
(5) Distribution and Optimization of Educational Resources to France
(6) Project Management Training in the United States.
- 30 -



All tour groups wrote and submitted reports on their visits.
Management Information System (MIS)
The project supports establishing an Education Management Information System (EMIS)
in the autonomous region and project county level of Xinjiang and Ningxia. This componernt
includes MIS equipment procurement and operators training programs. All equipment has been
procured and staff were also trained by Xinjiang and Ningxia early in 1998. At county level, MIS
equipment has been widely used in project implementation management and in macro-
management on educational infonnation.
Normal School Program
The project supports Jiangxi, Sichuan and Chongqing in rationalizing and strengthening
21 normal schools. This is mainly focused on increasing the quality and relevance of nornal
school teacher training.
By June 30, 2000, 91.57% of credit funds had been disbursed for Jiangxi, 97.79% for
Sichuan and 98.94% for Chongqing. More than 100% of counterpart funds had been expended
for Jiangxi, Sichuan and Chongqing.
Normal school equipment and books were procured together with the basic education
component through NCB. By the end of 1998, all equipment and books had been procured and
delivered to project schools. Training activities for normal school teachers and managers have
been completed. Through the implementation of the project, the experiment offering rate, lab
opening rate and percentage of teachers having bachelor degree increased in all project normal
schools, and all project schools improved their capability in training the future primary school
teachers.
The Normal School Principle Training Program       The leadership role of the
principles of the normal schools is critically important to a successful educational school. They
are managers of human, material and financial resources, as well as intellectual, social and
curricular leaders. Based on such environment, the World Bank mission, after its site visits to the
project nornal schools, recommended a training program for project supported normal school
principles which will provide them with the long-range planning tools necessary. The CEP, based
on the recommendations made by the Bank mission, organized a training workshop for all the
project normal school principals in July 1997. The workshop gave the principals management
training and assisted them in developing a year long action plan for the management of their
schools.
Innovation Proeram
The agreement between the Innovation Assessment Group (IAG) and the six project
provinces, approved by the World Bank, was signed in 1995. The goal of the innovation program
was to involve local authorities in the search for creative solutions to problem of universalizing
- 31 -



basic education and improving the quality and relevance of education.
The provinces reported that the program were implemented well and smoothly with
89.5% of budgeted funds for this category spent on the innovation programs. In the past five
years, 86+4 innovation programs with the total amount of US$1,073,935 were approved by the
World Bank and carried out by project provinces in six broad thematic areas including: (1)
improving bilingual education, (2) universalizing basic education, (3) developing new
curriculum, (4) experimenting with vocational and technical education, (5)improving research,
and development capacity, and (6) minority textbooks. Among 86+4 programs, 12+1 for
Guangxi, 9+1 for Xinjiang, 19 for Ningxia, 18+1 for Inner Mongolia, 18 for Jiangxi and 10+1
for Sichuan province. Some of the innovation programs have produced good results. For
example, hand-in-hand program in Ningxia improved the management capability and teaching
quality of principles and teachers in mountain areas. Work study program, also in Ningxia, not
only provided opportunity for the students to learn labour skill, but also provided funds for those
poor family students. In June 1999, IAG issued notice to project provinces informing them to
carry out summary and acceptance to their innovation programs, and all provinces completed
their summary task.
In project implementation period, IAG members went down to provinces to review the
progress of the innovation programs and made some suggestions.
Chinese Experts Panel (CEP)
The Terms of Reference (TOR) including the budget for the panel activities was approved
by the World Bank in 1995. The agreement between the CEP and the six provinces, agreed upon
by the project provinces, was also approved by the Bank and was signed.
CEP was formed on October 12, 1995 and the first panel meeting was held from October
12 to October 13, 1995. The chairman of the panel is Professor Jin Xibin, Education Department
of Beijing Normal University. The other panel members include: Mr. Chen Jinliang, Director of
FILO, Shanxi Provincial Education Commission; Professor Wu Rina, Chinese Language
Department of Central Nationality University; Dr. He Jin, the Institute of Higher Education of
Peking University, he is no more the CEP member when he moved to the Bank's RMC in 2000.
A secretariat was created at Education Department of Beijing Normal University to assist the
operation of the panel.
On the basis of the recommendations of the World Bank supervision mission, CEP
organized a training workshop in July 1997 for all the project normal school principals. All the
participants revealed that they learned a lot through the workshop.
Every year, CEP made site visits to project provinces to provide consultative services on
the project implementation. CEP members played and important role in project supervision and
providing advice to the quality enhancement parts of the project. CEP's contributions to the
project helped the provinces to better implement their programs and solved the issues existed in
the project implementation. Training Quality Assessment System which was drafted by CEP at
- 32 -



the beginning of 1996 and was practised by project provinces.
Minoritv Education Training Center
At the national level, this project supports to establish the Minority Education Training
Center (Centre) under MOE's National Academy of Education Administration (NAEA). The
Center was established at the end of 1994. In the past five years, the Center held several training
workshops supported by this project including middle school principals training, primary school
principals training, county education bureau directors training and training for county magistrate.
At the end of each workshop, they collected comments and suggestions from the participants
which will be helpful for their following training classes.
The project provides US$700,000 for the Center's civil construction which was
completed in 1997. All the equipment procured with project funds had arrived and are being
used. All the training activities have been completed so far. One study tour visited the United
States in 1997 and the second tour visited Canada in June 1999. Both tours focused on minority
education policies and practices in the two countries. Three teachers have completed their one
year study program with two in America and one in the UK. The fourth one-year program is
revised to three persons with three separate months. One studied in Japan and two in America.
C. MAIN ISSUES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
(1) Provincial, Prefecture and County Education Commissions should strengthen the
cooperation with its counterpart Finance Bureau to urge relevant units to provide planned
counterpart funding and accelerate disbursement and reimbursement process.
(2) All provinces should urge project schools to make full use of their facilities
including new buildings, equipment and library books.
(3) All provinces should pay more attention to the regular maintenance on the
new construction so that the investment will continue to provide economic and efficient
buildings well into the next century.
D. NEXT STEP
In order to ensure the sustainable efficiency of the Bank project, and further speed up and
sustain the universalization of the nine-year compulsory education, each project province worked
out its sustainability plan for the next five years after the project is completed.
E. DATA FORMS
See the attached.
Annex: Implementation Completion Reports of the Six Project Provinces and One
Municipality.
- 33 -



Annexl  Counterpart Funds Expenditure                                                      RMBY(000)
(including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
Total Planned Civil Works Equipment Books   Fumiture Overseas & Studies Teacher Training MIS  Others   Cumulated     %_
Jiangxi        238634.60  160780.28  23357.19 18789.87 11978.45              0.00      20579.76            880.69    236366.24       99.05
Guangxi        202540.74  155602.24  22004.84 21999.56  8673.82            110.00      22742.30           3916.40    235049.14      116.05
Sichuan        174397.80  148655.61   20173.70 11793.00  5498.20             0.00      10391.40           8404.90    204916.81      117.50
Inner Monolia  152570.00  146893.00   15196.00 10595.00  9392.00             0.00       6906.00           5558.00    197304.00      129.32
Xinjiang       192597.00  172961.00   7884.49  7628.43  7539.35            286.98       7094.40  1319.66  6553.12   211267.43       109.69
Ningxia         40021.00   28585.90   2883.00  3074.50  1624.50             35.00       2157.80   233.30  2436.90     41030.90      102.50
Chongqing       39203.00   46056.27    9519.70  2157.99  1478.20             0.00       2866.40           2894.05     64972.61      165.73
NAEA            20926.00   16331.40    829.60    63.50                                   204.10           3750.00     21178.60      101.21
Total         1060890.14  875865.70  101848.52 76101.85 46184.52          431.98       72942.16  1552.96 34394.06   1212085.73      114.25
%" refers to the percentage of cumulated by June 30, 2000 to total planned.
Comp." In the following tables refers to the amount completed by June 30, 2000.



Annex2 Credit Funds Expenditure                                                            USOOO)
(including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
Allocaton  Civil Works  Equipment Books    Fumiture Overseas & Studies Teacher Training MIS  Innovation  Cumulated       X
Jian xi        17700.00   11319.06    2920.45  1353.80   465.89             21.64        1048.39               174.94    17304.17        97.76
Guangxi        19400.00   13721.44    2561.57  1355.81    192.03           150.00         906.12               189.14    19076.11        98.33
Sichuan        16036.00   10831.65    2425.32   639.90   460.35              0.00        1110.45               178.60    15646.27        97.57
Inner Mongolia  17600.00   13405.00    1942.00   589.00   462.00            29.00         817.00               120.00    17364.00        98.66
Xinjiang       19500.00   12867.60    2107.70  1177.10   788.10             34.70        1222.90    195.35     206.41    18599.86        95.38
Ningxia         5200.00    2660.20     723.90   534.00   424.30             30.10         452.40     70.90     203.00     5098.80        98.05
Chongqing       3564.00    2290.09     577.89   177.98    71.07              0.00         292.06                          3409.09        95.65
NAEA            1000.00     700.00     100.00                              200.00           0.00                           1000.00      100.00
Totai         100000.00   67795.04   13358.83  5827.59  2863.74            465.44        5849.32   266.25    1072.09    97498.30         97.50
"%" refers to the percentage of cumulated by June 30, 2000 to allocation.



Annex3 Civil Works Progress--Funds Expenditure
(including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
.__________      Credit Funds U D(000)       -        Counterpart Funds RMBY('000
Total Planned (A)  Comp. (B)  (Bl(A)%  Total Planned (A)    Comp. (B)   (B)/(A)%
Jiangxi                11205.90   11319.06   101.01       124925.81      160780.28    128.70
Guangxi                13700.00  13721.44   100.16        124870.15      155602.24   124.61.
Sichuan                11034.16  10831.65    98.16        121272.00      148655.61    122.58
Inner Mongolia         13740.00  13405.00    97.56        109326.00      146893.00    134.36
Xinjiang               13252.70  12867.60    97.09        140387.40      172961.00   123.20
Ningxia                 2653.00   2660.20   100.30         27125.00      28585.90   105.39
Chongqing               2251.30   2290.09   101.72         23274.80      46056.27    197.88
Total                  67837.061 67095.04    98.91        671181.16     859534.30   128.06



Annex4 Procurement Progress of Equipment--Funds Expenditure
(including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
Credit Funds USD('O_0)                Counterpart Funds RMBY(COOO
Total Planned (A)  Comp. (B)   (B)/(A)%    Total Planned (A) Comp. (B)    B)fA %
Jiangxi                 3077.40     2920.45       94.90        39029.78       23357.19       59.84
Guangxi                 2712.00     2561.57       94.45        21445.91       22004.84      102.61
Sichuan                 247820      2425.32       97.87        19435.60       20173.70      103.80
Inner Mongolia          1565.00     1942.00      124.09        13178.00       15196.00      115.31
Xinjiang                2524.70     2107.70       83.48        10271.40        7884.49       76.76
Ningxia                  770.00      723.90       94.01         3988.00        2883.00       72.29
Chongqing                634.20       577.89      91.12         3086.80        9519.70      308.40
Total                  13761.50    13258.83       96.35       110435.49      101018.92       91.471



Annex5 Procurement of Furniture--Funds Expenditure for Primary and Lower Secondary Schools
Credit Funds USD (000)      =        Counterpart Fu ds RMBY('000)
____________   Total Planned (A)  Comp. (B)  (B)/(A)%  Total Planned (A) Comp. (B)  (B)I(A)%
Jiangxi                 467.80    465.89    99.59        13167.28       11978.45    90.97
Guangxi                 188.00    192.03   102.14         7814.80       8673.82   110.99
Sichuan                 464.14    460.35    99.18         5286.20       5498.20   104.01
Inner Mongolia          455.00    462.00   101.54         8219.00       9392.00   114.27
Xinjiang                725.30    788.10   108.66         6293.00       7539.35   119.81
Ningxia                 367.00    424.30   115.61         1485.50       1624.50   109.36
Chongqing               140.00 _   71.07    50.76          804.00       1478.20   183.86
iTotal                 2807.24   2863.74   102.01        43069.78      46184.52   107.23



Annex6 Procurement of Books--Funds Expenditure
(including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
Credit Funds U D('000              Counterpart Fu ds RMBY'000)
Total Planned (A)  Comp. (B)  (B)/(A)%  Total Planned (A) Comp. (B)  (B)/(A)%
Jiangxi                 1353.80    1353.80   100.00       33681.37       18789.87    55.79
Guangxi                 1440.00    1355.81    94.15       21930.07       21999.56   100.32
Sichuan                 684.30    639.90    93.51          9648.00       11793.00   122.23
Inner Mongolia          589.00    589.00   100.00         12261.00       10595.00    86.41
Xinjiang                1134.60   1177.10   103.74        12360.50        7628.43    61.72
Ningxia                  564.00    534.00    94.68         2483.50        3074.50   123.80
Chongqing                176.20    177.98   101.01         2074.20        2157.99   104.04
Total                   5941.90   5827.59    98.08        94438.64       76038.35    80.5



Annex7 Technical Assisstance Progress--Funds Expenditure
( including primary, lower secondary and normal schools)
Credit Funds U' (000       =       Counterpart Fu nds RMBY('000) 
Total Planned (A)  Comp, (B)  (B)I(A)%  Total Planned (A) Comp. (8)  (B)I(A)%
Jiangxi                1195.10   1048.39    87.72        22889.96      20579.76    89.91
Guangxi                 960.00    906.12    94.39        22476.22      22742.30   101.18
Sichuan                1207.20   1110.45    91.99         9954.00      10391.40   104.39
o                  Inner Mongolia          851.00    817.00    96.01         6656.00       6906.00   103.76
Xinjiang               1263.00   1222.90    96.83        10388.50       7094.40    68.29
Ningxia                 482.00    452.40    93.86         2002.00       2157.80   107.78
Chongqing               298.30    292.06    97.91          2111.2       2866.40   135.77
Total                  6256.60   5849.32    93.491       76477.88      72738.06    95.11



Annex7-1  Progress of Technical Assisstance---Training for Managers
(including primary and lower secondary schools)                                                    Unit: Person-Uimes
Civil Works Mana 3er        Operators        Administrative Staff   Equipment Staff        Auditor              Project Mana ler         Sub-total
Planned   Comp.   %    Planned Comp. %    PlannedCn     %    Planned Coup. I  %    Planned Comp. %               Planned Cornp. %       Planned Comp.  %
Jiangxi            456       518  113.6       4      4 100.0                           80    106  132.5       50   122  244.0       67   204  304.48       657    954  145.2
Guangxi            261       532  203.81     52    64 123.1        64    96 150.0    237    432  182.3        70   110  157.1      134   170   126.9    818   1404  171.6
Sichuan            120       148  123.3       3    25 833.3                            42      42  100.0      70    70  100.0    163   163   100.0    398    448  112.6
is nner Mongolia       597        769  128.8      32    32 100.0|    51    51 100.0         45     48  106.7      49    49  100.0        46    51  110.87      820   1000  122.0
I.-_                       ______  ___                                                                                                                             ___.
Xinjiang           324       510  157.4      42    51 121.4        42    51 121.4    269    208   77.3        78    90  115.4    156   182   116.7    911   1092  119.9
Ningxia            160       171  106.9      16    85 531.3        16    16 100.0       16     32 200.0       16    52  325.0        16   112   700.0   240.0    468  195.0
Chongqing           481       57  118.7       2      2 100.0        2      5 250.0       8     10  125.0       a    I-  137.5        10    44   440.0       78    116  148.7
Total             1966      2705  137.61   151   263 174.2    175   219 125.1    697    878  126.0    341   504   147.8            592   926   156.4   3922   5482  139.8
"Comp.' refers to the number completed by June 30,2000. All the workshops listed here are held within the provinces.



Annex7-2 Progress of Technical Assisstance-Training for Teachers(including primary and secondary schools)
Unit: Person-limes
Qualicalion               onjob             MuLitrade _              Lab S        la    Biingual           Library Staff         Conl. Education        Principal           Sub-total
Planne  Completed  %                                             Plnned comtp   %     Plnannna omp. %   Planne CdoCop %    Plann   Cn    %    Pianned tC   %    Planned Comp.   %    Planned Cornp.  %
Jtangxl          8323      8529 102.5  10470 11334 108.2   1320  1431 108.4   3639  3802  104.5 6_                           1805  1927  106.8   6430   8200  127.5   2946  3552 120.61 34933  38775  111.0
Guangxi          6660      7768  116.6  12516 13506 107.9   1021  1056 103.4   1878  1980  105.4         86   100  116.31  1407  1509  107.2   4320   9266  213.6   2015  2560 127.0  29903  37705  126.1
Skictuan         2675      41221160.1    8808  -8208  93.2  -1010  1031 102.11   833   8331 100.01   241   2411 100.0    7821  782  100.0 __1954   3004 -153.7    551   553 100.3  18754  18774  112.1
Inner Mongolia    2868     3496 121.9   5173  4939  95.5   1084   903  83.3   1170  1218  104.1   1462  3117  213.2    1 0o0   10o0o  100.0a   2650  16776  633.1   1078  4807 446.8  16483  36256  220.0
Xinjiawi         4568      4834 105.8   8171  81521 99.8                         18981 2125  11t2Z1   1170  1315  112.4   1896  1984  104.81  1996   3497  175.2   1898  2139 112.8  21593  24046  111.4
Niroxrd           440       476 11082   2624  3131 119.3    627  1207 192.5    751    774  103..            _                682   682  100C.   1439   2360  164.0    774  1243 160.6   7337   9873  134.6
701     1696 241.9   1963  2438 124.1    68    67 101.5    139   637  458.3             0     0    0.0    129   565 438.0    498   2888  579.9    107   447 417.8   3603   8736  242.5
Total           26135    30921 118.3  4972 611708 104.0   51 2   5695 111.11 10308  11369  110.3   2959  4773  161.3   7701  8449  109.7  19287  45991  238.5   9365 15301 163.4 1 30860  174165  133.3
I



CHINA: Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas Project (Cr.2651-CHA)
Report on Site Visit to Three Normal Schools in Chongqing and Sichuan
17-23 May 2001
Grace Mak
Consultant
29 May 2001
Summary
1.   Ms. Grace Mak (Consultant) visited Fuling Normal School in Chongqing, and Xuyong Normal
School and Zhongjiang Normal School in Sichuan from 17 to 23 May, 2001 to review the
implementation completion of the normal school component of the Basic Education in Poor and
Minority Areas Project (BEII). She was accompanied by Ms. Zhen Xiuxin (MoE). While in
Chengdu and Chongqing she met briefly with staff of the Provincial Education Bureaus. A staff
member of the relevant PEdC accomrpanied her during her travel to the normal schools.
2.   The normal school component was successfully completed both at the provincial and individual
normal school levels. (See Tables 1-4.) The three normnal schools have reportedly elevated to first-
rate normal school status by their county standards. Their sense of achievement and appreciation was
evident.
3.   This achievement was attributed to the BEII project in two ways. First, the Bank credit fund was a
direct factor. Second, the credit enticed and accelerated different sources of local counterpart funds.
In addition, the active local initiative in educational expansion also facilitated the projecr
implementation.
4.   The normal schools reported the benefits from the project in four ways. First, the completion of civil
works has provided up-to-standard physical conditions for normal school teacher education. Second,
the acquisition of facilities, e.g., procurement of cornputers, language and science laboratory
equipment, musical instruments and library books, has significantly improved teaching and learning.
Third, staff training has improved the quality of administrative, teaching and technical staff. Fourth,
the staff have acquired new approaches to management from the World Bank and the MoE in the
implementation process.
5.   Despite the improvement in teaching and learning brought about by the acquisition of facilities, less
attention had been shown on the qualitative dimension of innovations in teaching, such as in the
design of new teaching approaches or change in teacher behavior independent of technology.
Project Implementation in Sichuan and Chonnoine
6. The nornal school comnponent comprised 10 nornal schools. Since the separation of Chongqing from
Sichuan in May 1997, it cornprised 9 normnal schools in Sichuan and one in Chongqing. The
implementation was started in 1995 and completed in December 2000.
Attainment of proiect performance indicators
7. The normal schools in Sichuan as a whole had reached the standard conditions and improved in cost-
effectiveness, thus enabling them to meet the demands of universal basic education in the rural areas
they serve. The written report on Sichuan provided by the Sichuan SEdC elaborated this claim.
Written and site evidence on Xuyong and Zhongjiang Normal Schools provided examples supporting
the claim. A similar success was shown in Fuling Normal School in Chongqing.
- 43 -



8. Sichuan as a whole and the three schools visited attained the project goals set in the performance
indicators. In Sichuan as a whole, the achievement was generally slightly above the target in student-
teacher ratio, educational budget per student, number of library books per student, average size of
normal school specialism, number of teaching hours per week per teacher, experiment offering rate,
percentage of teachers with Bachelor's degree or equivalent, and girls as a percentage of all students.
It reached exactly the target in experiment class as a percentage of all classes, laboratory opening rate,
and library opening hours per week. It fell slightly short of the target in the number of teachers
receiving training. (See Table 1).
9. The performance of individual schools varied. For example, Xuyong Normal School had an education
budget per student of 2538 RMBY and 92% of its teaching staff with degree or equivalent
qualifications, far higher than the provincial average, but had 38 library books per student, far lower
than the provincial average.
10. The statistics on Zhongjiang Normal School (Table 3) are not comparable to those in the other Tables.
The three-tier system of teacher preparation in China (normal schools for primary teachers, post-
secondary non-degree normal colleges for lower secondary school teachers, and normal universities for
upper secondary school teachers) is in transition to a two-tier system (normal college or equivalent for
primary teachers, and universities for lower and upper secondary teachers). Normal schools will be
phased out. Sichuan had 64 normal schools in 1994 and 38 presently. The others have been
consolidated or converted to other types of educational organizations. In the new system the
preparation of primary school teachers takes five years from the completion of Secondary 3, as
compared to three years in the old system. In this context, in November 1999 the Sichuan PEdC
approved the conversion of Zhongjiang Normal School to Zhongjiang Experimental Secondary School.
The school in transition has two more cohorts of normal school students. The statistics in Table 3
cover both the normal school and experimental secondary school populations.
11. Fuling Normal School also surpassed the target indicators, and by a wide margin in education budget
per student, number of library books per student, and percentage of teachers with degree or equivalent
qualifications (Table 4).
12. The increase in proportion of girls was due to a positive discrimination policy in 1992 to 1997, when
the admission score was slightly lower for girls than for boys. Since then, expansion in nine-year basic
education has resulted in higher rates of girls completing Secondary 3. Girls no longer need
preferential admission arrangement.
Civil works, procurement ofegquipment and librarv books, and technical assistance
13. The Bank loan for the normal school component in Sichuan was US$ 1,100,000, of which
US$1,075,720 (97.79%) was disbursed. The outstanding amount was due to the absence of bidders in
the second round of library books procurement. Table 5 provides a breakdown of the disbursement by
category. The planned counterpart fund was RMBY 24,923,000, when the actual disbursed amount
was RMBY 28,889,410 (115.91%). Table 6 provides a breakdown of the disbursement by category.
In civil works and staff training the available figures also showed that Sichuan had surpassed the
planned targets. (See Table 7.)
14. Parallel performance of the schools visited demonstrated a similar pattem. (See Tables 8 to 10 for
statistics on Xuyong Normal School and Zhongjiang Normal School respectively.)
15. In Chongqing, Fuling Normal School disbursed 92.75% of the credit fund and 205% of the counterpart
fund. Fuling has enjoyed a more favorable fnancial arrangement since the separation of Chongqing
from Sichuan, hence generous support from the counterpart fund. Tables 11 and 12 provide details of
its credit fund and counterpart fund disbursement.
- 44 -



Project impact on the normal schools
16. The normal schools visited viewed the benefits primarily in terms of improvement brought about by
facilities upgrading. The construction of new buildings and renovation of old ones have created more
and better space for teaching and administration. The new photocopier has greatly improved the
printing of exam papers. This was demonstrated with pride at both Xuyong and Fuling Normal
Schools. The leap was from the manual printer to the 120 copies per minute photocopier. The
procurement of computers has enabled the offering of computer studies as a subject. The science
laboratory equipment has enabled the offering of experimental classes. The language laboratory
equipment has much improved the teaching of accurate Putonghua pronunciation, which is a basic skill
in teaching. The procurement of musical instruments and construction of rooms for individualized
practice has enabled the music training of primary teachers, thus equipping them with diverse skills to
meet the needs of rural schools. The acquisition of library books has greatly increased extracurricular
reading materials available to students.
17. The use of new approaches to teaching and the integration of theory and practice has been interpreted
as the change brought about by these facilities, such as in laboratory and Putonghua classes. However,
there was no mention of a deeper sense of innovative teacher behavior or teaching theories. The ability
to teach in a multigrade classroom is no longer a necessity except in extremely poor areas due to the
increase in supply of primary teachers.
18. Another benefit was new knowledge of management. All three schools reported with pride that they
had reached a higher quality in management. The principals training program was an eye-opening
experience. Training has raised the qualifications and quality of teaching staff and the know-how of
non-teaching staff. The schools realized the importance of human resources over tangible resources
and thus raised extra funds for staff training. In the course of project implementation, the school
personnel have learned from the World Bank in management, including documentation, use of
performance indicators, monitoring and evaluation. In 1998 the Chongqing PEdC has published a 67-
page manual on project documentation, procedures of application, financial management, and library
and laboratory management, etc., for distribution to project institutions.
19. The schools viewed the value of the Bank credit not so much in amount as in its function as a catalyst.
Counterpart funds were committed more readily and in larger amounts. They had leaped from have-
not schools to relatively well-equipped ones in a few years.
20. They reported improvement in the quality of their teachers and students. Fuling Normal School, for
example, reported that primary schools like to recruit its graduates as teachers.
21. In future, Fuling and Xuyong Nornal Schools will try to secure additional funds for buildings and
equipment maintenance. Zhongjiang Normal School will try to transfer the benefits accumulated to
the running of the Zhongjiang Experimental Secondary School. The latter is in the process of applying
for provincial key school status.
22. The area that could have been improved would be greater school autonomy such as in the purchase of
library books. The list of library books for purchase was decided not by the schools, thus resulting in
some books not directly relevant to the schools' needs. In addition, the principal of Zhongjiang Normnal
School suggested a study tour not only to other parts of China, but also overseas, to broaden their
horizons.
- 45 -



Table 1        Project performance of Sichuan Province
Performance indicator                               1992         1995                1999
.  Planned       Actual
Student/teacher ratio                                 9.8          10.6         11.3         11.5
Educational budget er student (RMBY)                978          1373         1530         1548
No. of library books per student                     24.3          27.2         52           55
Average size of normal school Recialismn             576          665.2        758          781
No. of teaching hours per week per teacher            10           10.4         12           12.1
Experiment offering rate (%)                          73.6         75           80           81.2
% of teachers with Bachelor's degree or equivalent   60            63           72           76
Experiment class as a percentage of all classes (iO)  25          28.5         33           33
Laboratory opening rate (%)                          24            25           36           36
Library opening hours (hours/week)                   28.8          32.4         48           48
Girls as a percentage of all students                38.5         41            45           49.1
No. of teachers receiving trainig                   575           843         1000          924
Table 2        Project performance of Xuyong Normal School (Sichuan)
Performance indicator                               1992                2000
Planned      Actual
Student/teacher ratio                                 9.8         na.           11.5
Educational budget per student (RMBY)               978           rLa.        2538
No. of library books per student                     24.3         n.a.          38
Average size of normal school specialism            576           n.a.         760
No. of teaching hours per week per teacher            10          n.a.          12.5
Experiment offering rate (%)                         73.6        na.            94
% of teachers with Bachelors degree or equivalent    60          n.a.           92
Experiment class as a perSentage of all classes (%)  n.a.         na.          na.
Laboratory opening rate (%)                          24          n.a.           36
Library opening hours (hours/week)                   28.8         n.a.          48
Girls as a percentage of al students                 38.5         n.a.          47
No. of person-tmes receiving mraining                574          n.a.        1.068
* person-times = number of persons x number of tires of training
- 46 -



Table 3        Project performance of Zhongjiang Normal School (Sichuan)
Performance indicator                               1995                 2000
Planned       Actual
Student/teacher ratio                                 10.6        n.a.            16.1
Educational budget per student (RMBY)               1376          n.a.         1900
No. of library books per student                      45          n.a.           65
Average size of normal school specialism             615          n.a.          740
No. of teaching hours per week per teacher             10.3       n.a.            14
Experiment offering rate (%)                          78          n.a.           96.4
% of teachers with Bachelor's degree or equivalent    65-3        n.a.           88
Experiment class as a percentage of all classes (%)   28.5        n.a.           60
Laboratory opening rate (%)                           30          n.a.           75
Library opening hours (hours/week)                    38.7        n.a.           60
Girls as a percentage of all students                 42          n.a.           48
No. of teachers receiving training                    86          n.a.          121
Table 4        Project performance of Chongqing (Fuling Normal School)
Performance indicator                               1992          1998                2000
Planned      Actual
Student/teacher ratio                                  9.8           9.6         11.3         16.2
Educational budget per student (RMBY)                978          1500         1530         2292
No. of library books per student                    24.3          50           52          247
Average size of normal school specialism             576           769          758          890
No. of teaching hours per week per teacher            10           10            12          12.1
Experiment offering rate (%)                          73.6          82           80           85
% of teachers with Bachelor's degee or equivalent     60            61.3         72           85.8
Experiment class as a percentage of all classes (/O)  25           55.6         33.3         33.3
Laboratory opening rate (%)                           24            49           36           36
Library opening hours (hours/week)                    28.8          49.3         48           48
Girls as a percentage of all students                 38.5          55.4         45           52.6
No. of teachers receiving training                    57            96          100          125
Table 5        Credit fund disbursement of Sichuan province (in US$)
|Totalplanned     I Total disbursed    |Equipment      |Library books     |Technical assistance
1,100,000         1,075,720 (97.79%) 925,990           190,560           159,170
Table 6        Counterpart fund disbursement of Sichuan province (in RMBY)
Totalplanned    Total disbursed  Civil works    Library books   Technical      Others
assistance
24,923,000      28,889,410      24,891,310      1,160,400       241,500        2,596,200
(115.91%)
- 47 -



Table 7       Normal school component completion of Sichuan province
Planned             (Actual
Civil works:
Budget
Area (m2)                                          43,178               46,208 (107%)
Equipment (no. of pieces/sets)                      n.a.                 1,192
Library books                                      n.a.                 37,560
Technical assistance (no. of persons)              571                  642 (112.4%)
Table 8       Credit fund disbursement of Xuyong Normal School (in US$ and RMBY)
Total planned   Total disbursed  Equipment   Library books   Technical
___                           I               assistance
US$140,000    US$130,723      RMBY 992,054  RMBY 41,377   RMB488,71
(93.37%)
Table 9       Counterpart fund disbursement of Xuyong Normal School (in RMBY)
Totalplanned (Total disbursed ICivil works   (Equipment (Librarybooks (Stafftraining |
1,913,500    3,612,842     3,124,049    348,270    (117,907      22,615
(188.8%)                              l
Table 10      Implementation completion of Zhongjiang Normal School
Planned              4ctual
Credit fund                                        US$120,000            (n.a.)
(- RMBY 990,600)
Counterpartfund                                                         RMBY 2,197,300
Civil works:
Budget                                             RMBY 1,785,750      RMBY 1,798,660
(100.7%)
Area (m2)                                         14,100                4,200
Equipment                                           RMBY 854,600        RMBY 866,200
(101.4%)
Librarv books:
From credizjund                                   KivibX Yu1,OUU        sio I 0U-,UJV
(70.6%)
From counterpart fund                            n.a.                 RMBY 38,500
Technical assistance:
From credit_fund                                 RMBY 49,800          RMBY 54,800
From counterpart fund                            n.a.                 RMBY 63,500
- 48 -



Table 11      Credit fund disbursement of Fuling Normal School (in US$)
Total planned    Total disbursed    Equipment       Library books     Staff training
Planned Actual   Planned Actual   Planned 1Actual
100,000          92,748 (92.7%)    60,000  [78,922   10,000   10,297   5,000   13,529
(131.5%)  ~      (103%)          J(70.6%)
Table 12      Counterpat fund disbursement of Fuling Normal School (in RMBY)
Total             Civil works       Equipment          Library oo         Technical assistance
Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actual   Planned  Actuali
4,407,000 9,043,514 3,342,700 8,441,214 208,800  378,769  168,100  177,911  6,500    45,620
(205.2%)          (252.5%)          (181.4%)           (105.8%)          (701.8%)
- 49 -



