Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13026-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY
AREAS PROJECT
AUGUST 8, 1994
Poverty, Population and Human Resources Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 10, 1994)
Currency Name  = Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit  = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00  = $0.11
$1.00 = Y 8.7
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
September 1 - August 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EDPP             -  Education Development in Poor Provinces Project
EMIS             -  Educational Management Information System
FILO             -  Foreign Investment and Loan Office
GOC              -  Government of China
IAG              -  Innovation Assessment Group
ICB              -  International Competitive Bidding
IDA              -  International Development Association
LAN              -  Local Area Network
LCB              -  Local Competitive Bidding
LMS              -  Lower Middle School
MIS              -  Management Information System
MOL              -  Ministry of Labor
PEC              -  Provincial Education Commission
RMC              -  World Bank Resident Mission/China
SDR              -  Special Drawing Right
SOE              -  Statement of Expenditure
SEdC             -  State Education Commission
SPC              -  State Planning Commission
TIS              -  Teacher Information System
UBE              -  Universal Basic Education
GLOSSARY
Province - China is divided into provinces, autonomous regions and
municipalities. In this report "province" refers to
any of these, as appropriate



CHINA
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND MINORITY
AREAS PROJECT
CREDT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:    People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries: State Education Commission (SEdC) and six participating provinces and
autonomous regions (Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Jiangxi, Sichuan,
Xinjiang, and probably Ningxia)
Amount:      SDR 69.2 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 35 years' maturity
Project
Description: The project's principal goal is to support the attainment of universal
primary education, and the expansion of coverage of lower secondary
education, in poor and minority areas. This would be achieved by: (a)
improving the quality and effectiveness of educational inputs to teaching
points, primary schools, lower secondary schools and rural normal schools
in poor and minority areas; (b) improving management of schools at the
primary, lower secondary and normal school levels, as well as the
educational system at the township, county, prefecture, province or
autonomous region, and national levels; and (c) facilitating innovative
activities in book publishing, editing and development (especially in
minority languages) and action oriented innovation programs. Under the
institutional component, the project would support necessary civil
construction and repair to support better the needs of their present and
projected student populations; provide necessary instructional equipment;
staff upgrading through pre-service and in-service training programs; and
normal schools pilot activity to reorganize their elementary and lower
secondary school teacher training programs. Under the management
improvement component, the project would support development of
management capabilities for the education system at the central, provincial
and institutional levels through staff training, the provision of equipment
furniture and expert services through: training of principals, local
education management authorities, provincial educational planners, and
local project implementation authorities; and the development of an
education information management system. The quality enhancement



- ii -
component will promote innovations and other improvements in primary
and lower secondary schools by supporting a program of self-generated
action-oriented research activities and the development of minority and
bilingual book and textbook preparation, production, publication and
distribution; and national capacity building activities, including
construction of a minority education center, establishment of an Innovation
Assessment Group and experts panel which would support training and
policy-focused, action-oriented experiments to improve implementation
activities common to the project provinces and build up SEdC to
coordinate the implementation and replication of basic education projects.
Benefits:     The project is expected to benefit about 5 million children in poor and the
remote areas inhabited by minority nationalities. Provision of education
to these children will help them take advantage of opportunities being
created by rural development and economic growth in township and urban
centers.  This project also includes interventions to improve school
attendance of female students.
Risks:        There are three main risks in this project. First, the central, provincial
and county officials may not be able to adequately oversee the
implementation of the project activities.  Cognizant of this risk,
management training at all three levels is an important activity of the
project. Additionally, lessons learned from implementing the IDA-
supported Education Development in Poor Provinces (EDPP) project will
be included in the training of provincial and county level implementation
units for this project. Implementation experience of the EDPP project and
the strong provincial and county level work necessary to develop the
current project indicate that this risk is not excessive.  Second, the
provinces may not ensure that the poorest population benefits from
improved access to and quality of basic education. To deal with this, the
project will require provinces to carry out acceptable and monitorable
action and financing plans to ensure that educational achievements in
nonproject poor counties will not deteriorate during the implementation of
the project. Finally, the tight fiscal situation in participating provinces
may result in insufficient counterpart funding to match IDA credit funds.
To reduce this risk provincial authorities have committed themselves, after
extensive discussion, to provide adequate counterpart funds, which are
estimated on a realistic basis. Furthermore, SEdC has indicated that, if
necessary, it will allocate funds from special categories in its budget
earmarked for education in minority and poor areas to the six project
provinces to assist in providing for any possible counterpart shortfalls.



Estimated Cost:                                Loal    Foreign    Total
---------- ($ million) ------
Institutional strengthening      121.4       5.6      127.0
Management improvement             0.3       0.4        0.7
Quality enhancement                2.6       0.0        2.6
Base Cos                      1241 3      aLU
Physical contingencies             9.3       0.1        9.4
Price contingencies               37.2       0.1       37.3
Total Poect Cos               176                 177 0
Flnndng Plan:
Chinese Government                76.2       0.8       77.0
IDA                               97.9       2.1      100.0
ITia1                         174.1      22       i2ZLQ
Estimated Disbursement:
EDA FY         I1      I       1       1997     1292 
--------------------------($ million)-----------------
Annual          8.9    28.8    37.0    15.6      8.7     1.0
Cumulative      8.9    37.7    74.7    90.3    99.0   100.0
Poverty
Category:   This project is targeted at 5 million of China's poorer primary school
children. Special programs of targeted intervention are included to benefit
the poor and girls.
Economic Rate
of Return:  Not applicable.






- 1v -
CONTENTS
1   Introduction and Background .       ............................  1
A. Major Sectoral Issues and Constraints .......        ...............  2
B.  Government Strategy  ................................  3
C.  Bank Group Assistance Strategy and Experience in the Education Sector .  6
D. Lessons Learned ...................................  7
2 The Project .................................... 9
A. Project Objectives ..................................   9
B.  Rationale for IDA Involvement .........          ................. 10
C. Project Design and Preparation .......................... 10
D. Project Description .........................                             12
Institutional Component  ........................... 12
Management Improvement Component .................. 16
Quality Enhancement Component ...................... 17
E.  Environmental Aspects and Program Objective Categories  ...       ...... 19
3   Project Costs and Fiances  .............................. 20
A. Project Costs ..................................... 20
B.  Financing Plan .................................... 21
This report is based on the findings of an April 1994 appraisal mission to China. Mission
members were Halsey L. Beemer, Jr. (General Educator, EA2HR, Task Manager), James
Lynch (Educator, ASTHR), Mohammed Allak (Human Resources Economist, SA2HR,
consultant), Sandra F. Erb (Operations Specialist, EA2HR), Consultant), and Hou
Dingyong (Project Officer, RMC).  Substantial contributions to project design and
preparation were also made by He Jin (Education Consultant), Christopher Thomas
(Education Consultant), David Lewis (Architect Consultant), and Carmelle Denning (Book
Specialist, Consultant). Peer reviewers were Lee Travers (Environmental Economist,
EA2EU), Samual S. Lieberman (Health Economist, EA3HR) and Edward H. Heneveld
(Senior Educator, AFTHR). Cost tables were prepared by Hou Dingyong. The
responsible Division Chief is Vinay K. Bhargava, and the Department Director is Nicholas
C. Hope.



v 
4   Project Organization and Implementation ......           ............... 23
A. Project Organization . ................................ 23
B.  Management of Project Implementation ......          ............... 25
C.  Procurement  ..................................... 26
D. Disbursements  ....................................  27
E.  IDA Monitoring of Project Implementation .....        .............. 29
5   Benerits and Risks ....................................  31
A. Benefits .................................. 31
B.  Risks    ..........................................  31
6 Agreements Reached and Recommendation   .                   .32
A. Agreements .32
B. Conditions of Effectiveness .33
C. Recommendation .33
TABLES TN nTxT
3.1 Summary of Project Costs by Component .......           ............... 20
3.2 Summary of Projects Costs by Category  ........         ............... 21
3.3 Financing Plan .................................. 22
4.1 Summary of Procurement Arrangements  ....................... 28
4.2 Estimated Disbursement Profile . ............................ 28
4.3 Disbursements .29
ANNExES
1.1:  Key Benchmark Provincial Indicators - Primary Education .35
1.2:  Key Benchmark Provincial Indicators - Lower Secondary .36
2:  Provincial Counterpart Funding as a Proportion of
Provincial Education Budgets and Sources of Counterpart Funding  ...   37
3:  Highlights of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP)
(Implementation Arrangements) .38
4:  Provincial Allocations to Nonproject Counties ................... 40
5:  Summary of Preparation and Appraisal Criteria .................. 41
6:  Supervision by IDA ................................... 43
7:  Project Indicators for Project-Supported Counties by Province ...   ...... 45
8:  Selection Criteria for Provinces ............................ 47
9:  Chinese Experts Panel TOR .............................. 50
10:  Operating Criteria for Innovation Program  ..................... 54
11:  Loan Disbursement Schedule ............................. 57
12:  Implementation Timetable ............................... 58
13:  Documents and Data Available in Project File ................... 59
Map: IBRD No. 25954



- 1 -
1. INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND
1.1         Education plays a central role in achieving China's goals of development and
modemization. In order to achieve these goals by the year 2000, China has set as a major
national target the achievement of universal basic education (UBE) 1/ as soon as it is
practical. It is understood that this will not happen nationally until early in the twenty-first
century, though it is already close to reality in advanced regions. Compared with other
developing countries, China's success in providing a comprehensive schooling system to
its population has been remarkable. Enrollment rates in the first nine years of schooling
are higher than in most other lower income countries, with more than 95 percent of the 6-
11 age cohort enrolled in primary school and over 60 percent of the 12-15 age cohort in
lower secondary school. As a result, literacy rates are higher than in most countries with
similar levels of economic development. It is estimated that the literacy rate for those 15
years of age and older is over 80 percent. It is close to 93 percent among the 15 to 25
year age group. This is an impressive achievement for a country with nearly 75 percent
rural population.
1.2         These impressive summary statistics, however, conceal the disparity in
education attainment among China's 1.185 billion inhabitants. While the goal of nine-year
compulsory education is already achieved in most large cities and coastal areas, many poor
and remote areas have not even reached six years of universal primary education. The
education system in these areas suffers from: insufficient, dilapidated or dangerous
classrooms and schools; high numbers of unqualified teachers; poor teaching materials;
high drop-out and repetition rates; unsatisfactory management; and difficult access. This
proposed project would aim to improve the delivery of basic education in the poor and
minority areas of six provinces.
1.3         Many of the poor and remote areas in China are inhabited by minority
nationalities.2/ Mainly due to historical, geographic, and cultural reasons, the economic
and education levels in many minority areas are lower than the national average. For
example, of the minority nationalities counties, 25 percent are State-supported poor
1/    Universal Basic Education (UBE) is defined by the State Education Commission as covering the first
nine years of education.
2/    China has 55 minority nationalities totaling 91.2 million and constituting 8 percent of the population.
Areas inhabited by these minorities occupy 64 percent of the entire country. There are 80 spoken
languages and over 30 writing systems used by 53 minority nationalities.



- 2 -
counties.J/   The average rural annual income per capita in these counties is below
Y 300, compared to the national rural average of Y 784.4/   According to a sample
survey of 25 minority counties carried out by the State Education Commission (SEdC), the
gross enrollment rate of school age minority children is about twenty percentage points
lower than the national mean, with the female enrollment rate being particularly low.
Almost half the adult population is illiterate or semi literate; the overall illiteracy rate for
women is 70 percent. In addition to the characteristics of education in poor areas noted
above, education of minority nationalities suffers from shortage in teaching materials and
adequately  trained  teachers.   Bilingual education,5/ regarded  as instrumental in
promoting minority nationalities to advance to upper and postsecondary education, also
suffers from various shortcomings: a shortage of qualified teachers; unsatisfactory
instructional materials and insufficient attention and research in the pedagogical, linguistic,
and curriculum aspects of bilingual education.
A. MAJOR SECTORAL IES  AND CONSTRANS
1.4          A brief review of the sectoral issues and constraints as they relate to basic
education, especially in the poor and remote areas, follows:6/
(a)   inefficiencies at the rural primary and lower secondary school levels will
make universal basic education difficult to achieve. Although schools are
effective in most respects, greater efforts will be needed to achieve universal
basic education. Issues such as high repetition rates, especially in the first
years of primary school, incomplete schools, low girls' enrollment,
especially in minority areas and lack of mechanisms to identify efficiency-
related issues and to provide and monitor corrective measures;
(b)    urban-rural disparity in the delivery of educational services exists.
Expenditures in city and town schools have grown faster than those in
village and rural communities, and there is serious underfinancing of rural
schools. Many rural schools are in poor physical condition, inadequately
staffed, and poorly supplied in terms of books and other pedagogical inputs.
A special problem is the low incomes of locally hired, nongovemment
supported (minban) teachers in the poor communities. Limited pay causes
high turnover and gives teachers low motivation to upgrade their skills and
3/    Counties which due to their poverty level receive financial support from the State. There are 331
such poor counties of which, as mentioned above, 143 or 43 percent are minority counties. There
are also 125 minority counties receiving support from provincial governments.
4/    State Statistical Bureau figures for 1992.
5s    Bilingual education is currently employed by 24 minority nationalities. Most other minority children
are taught in Han Chinese beyond grade 3 or 4.
A detailed discussion of these issues can be found in China: Provincial Education Sector Planning
and Finance, Sector Study. The World Bank, China and Mongolia Department. Report No. 8657-
CHA, 1991



- 3 -
to remain in the teaching profession. Additionally, there is an uneven
distribution of teachers among urban and rural areas;
(c)   constrained access to basic education in poor and minority (typically rural)
areas continues to be a problem. School costs, such as annual book fees,
have risen and have depressed overall primary enrollment rates in poor
areas. Low girls' enrollment and completion rates are common in rural and
minority areas where parents keep girls at home to help in income
generating activities (contrary to the government's UBE policy), or because
of rising school costs. About 50 percent of the rural primary schools in the
project provinces are incomplete schools, i.e., they do not offer the full
primary course, and about 35 percent offer only three or even fewer grades.
Small villages are served by incomplete schools, or "teaching points" which
offer only grades one and two. This is a serious constraint on achieving
universal basic education;
(d)   weak teacher training for primary and lower secondary schools, especially
in rural poor areas with relatively high levels of minority population,
remains a problem; teacher training needs to be reformed. Normal schools
and in-service training courses in China focus on teaching subject matter and
methods appropriate for large urban schools, but few courses are offered for
teachers on the methods and techniques required in rural schools. There is
little practice in multigraded teaching techniques, or in bilingual education.
There are, however, many very experienced teachers who have been in rural
areas for many years, and who have mastered the techniques and practices
appropriate to teaching successfully in rural areas, and these teachers need
increased opportunities to augment course content skills with in-service
training, or teach other teachers. Pre-service and in-service training are not
effectively utilized, because they are treated as two separate systems of
training; and
(e)   necessary improvements in the management structure will be difficult
because they involve several layers of government and administration
(central, provincial, county, village and educational institution); there is
little experience with the management of education reform; little systematic
attention has been given to using the results of teacher demand and supply
analysis; and training in modern statistical analysis has been inadequate.
Also, educational statistics and data on education financing and on school
facilities are often incomplete or inaccurate and therefore provide
insufficient information to identify properly and resolve efficiency problems.
B. GovERNmENT STRATEGY
1.5         The publication, in May 1985, of the "Decision to Restructure the Education
System' marked the most significant reform in Chinese education since 1949. It called
for: universalization of nine years of basic education; expansion of vocational and technical



education at the secondary and postsecondary levels; increased enrollment in (and
autonomy for) higher education institutions; and strengthened education sector leadership
at all levels. That decision was followed by the Compulsory Education Law of 1986.
Under it, nine year UBE was to be achieved in stages: in the cities and coastal areas by
1990; in the towns and villages with a medium level of development by 1995; and in the
more backward areas at "..a rate commensurate with their economic development..". At
the same time, responsibility for providing basic education was delegated to local
governments. SEdC was created in June 1986 as the successor to the Ministry of
Education. It is responsible nationally for policy, budgeting and coordination of this
sector. It therefore has the mission of overseeing the above reforms at the national level.
1.6         The Central Government's overall approach toward education is to develop
broad principles and regulations to guide provincial and local governments in developing
their county and village level education services, so that they may implement the
compulsory education law using the resources available, and pursue their own targets,
according to their own means. Principles to be encouraged at the national level include
efficiency, quality and equity:
(a)   efficiency is seen as increased cost-effectiveness in school management by
reducing high repetition and dropout rates, and adopting adequate student-
teacher ratios and teacher workloads;
(b)   quality improvement includes the introduction of newly developed sets of
more relevant and adequate books for basic education, training of teachers
to use the new text materials and provision of more pre-service and
improved in-service training for teachers;
(c)   equity issues include State efforts to subsidize economically undeveloped
areas so that they may introduce compulsory education and to encourage the
transfers of funds from provincial to local governments.
1.7         Government Strategy on Minority Education. The evolution of China's
strategy for the provision of education for ethnic minorities has undergone changes in the
past four decades. For instance, use of minority language as the initial medium of
instruction in primary schools has increased, Han language lessons are now being
introduced as part of bilingual teaching and Han Chinese is only being fully used in later
primary school grades, the percentage of local content in primary school textbooks has
been increased, and levels of government-both local and national-support of teachers'
salaries in predominantly minority areas has been increased.  Since the late 1970s,
educational reforms both at the center and in the provinces have generally favored the use
of increased ethnic minority educational inputs into primary schools, including increased
use of minority language for early years of classroom instruction, increased recruitment
of minority teachers and school principals, and grater efforts to train bilingual teachers.
1.8         Government policy on minority education can be seen in a number of other
systematic policy foci:



- 5 -
(a)   Expanding Access through construction, expansion and renovation of
township/village schools, teaching points and multigrade-schools; mandating
universal 6-year education in all minority regions or an elementary graduate
per household as a minimum requirement for remote and scattered rural
inhabitation; development of a Key Elementary School for every township
in each minority county and a Key Secondary School and a Literacy and
Vocational Training Center for each minority county;
(b)   Improving Delivery and Relevance of educational inputs by: improving
teacher selection and preparation in pedagogical, bilingual education,
curriculum revision and development of bilingual materials for minorities;
(c)   Increasing the Resource Base by developing preferential policies of
increased national and provincial resource allocation targeted at basic
education in poor minority regions for specific programs to reduce repetition
and drop-out rates.
1.9         This proposed project addresses the efficiency, quality and equity issues of
minority education by supporting government efforts to (a) expand access for the minority
population by financing facility upgrading, and equipment and book procurement for
schools in minority areas; (b) address quality issues by financing development of bilingual
textbooks and training of bilingual teachers, supporting self-generated innovations in
improving efficiency in schools, and in-service training of minority teachers and principals;
(c) create a Minority Education Training Center to build policy research and management
training capacity for minority education; (d) finance Chinese language training for minority
teachers; (e) finance studies on effective teaching, learning technologies, and multigrade
teaching, especially geared to minorities with particular emphasis on minority girls; and
(f) ensure minority county participation in the project by using selection criteria which give
increase weighting to those counties with higher percentages of ethnic minorities.
1.10        Government Strategy for Education in Poverty Areas. Like government
education policies focused on ethnic minorities, there is also a special recognition of and
attention to education support in poverty areas. This is because government reports clearly
indicate inadequate access to, quality of and equity in delivery of educational inputs in poor
areas. At the same time, educational outcomes are also well below those in the more
developed areas with higher grade repetition and dropout rates, lower transition rates to
lower secondary schools, and substantially lower rates of girls' enrollments. These
findings are also borne out by Bank studies 7/ which can be summarized by a statement
from one of the reports: "... the underfunding of rural schools in poor areas condemns
them to mediocrity and the poor to a bleak, ill-educated future. "a/
7/    World Bank: Report No. 8657-CHA: China. Provincial Education Planning and Finance Sector
Study (Washington, D.C., World Bank, 1991); World Bank: Report No. 10409-CHA: China:
Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s (Washington, D.C., World Bank, 1992).
8/    China. Strategiesfor Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, p. 87.



- 6 -
1.11        The government is dealing with these issues in a number of ways among
which are the following: (a) earmarked national funds for construction and rehabilitation
of schools in poor areas; (b) upgrading the professional qualifications of minban (locally
supported) teachers so that they can be converted to gongban (government supported)
teachers; (c) specially targeted funds to support payment of such school fees as books,
meals in boarding schools, and some transportation costs; (d) training of education
managers at the provincial and county level in methods to achieve efficiency gains by using
better resource allocation strategies and practices; and, (e) introduction of tax reforms
which broaden and deepen the base for tax collection, earmark percentages for compulsory
education, and allow for targeting of funds toward the poorer sections of the provinces.
1.12        This proposed project supports the government's strategy with specifically
focused support in the following areas:  (a) substantial civil works for both new
construction and repair of school buildings in national poor counties with limited internal
resources for such investments; (b) support for in-service training, especially of minban
teachers, to upgrade their skills to bring teacher qualification levels in the provinces from
the current 75 percent+/- to 85 percent; (c) provision of specialized training for county
magistrates responsible for school financing and school principals in more effective
utilization of educational resources; (d) support through an innovation program for policy-
focused action-oriented research activities at the school level in poor counties in order to
experiment with ways to increase access for poor children to schools as well as increased
enrollment and transition rates; (e) distribution of free textbooks to poor children; (f) more
systematic use of current teacher demand and supply analysis methods which will enable
provinces to decrease the intake into their teacher training institutions which are currently
oversupplying teachers to the system; (g) reorganization of teacher training institutions in
two provinces by mergers to increase internal efficiency of the institutions; and,
(h) specialized training in multigrade teaching which will enable smaller schools to increase
the efficiency of teacher utilization. Specific details of project design and coverage are in
Part 11. The Project.
1.13        It is within the above context that the effort to improve and develop basic
education, both through the ongoing Education Development in Poor Prouinces (EDPP)
Project and the currently proposed project, takes place. The drive toward universal basic
education has progressed well in the cities, and coastal and more economically developed
areas, and the need to accelerate the effort in rural, poor and minority areas is now being
addressed. This project is part of this effort.
C. BANK GROUP AssISTANcE STRATEGY AND ExPERmENcE
IN THE EDUCATION SECTOR
1.14        The Bank Group (IBRD and IDA) is in general agreement with the direction
taken by China in development of its educational system at all levels. It provides support
to this process by maintaining a dialogue on sectoral issues and options, and by supporting
selected activities which contribute to the efficiency and quality of that system and to its
relevance to national development objectives. In order to facilitate achievement of these
ends, the Association has set as its assistance strategy that it will:



(a)   give attention to efficient resource use, including utilization of teachers and
facilities, a demand oriented approach to vocational education programs at
the secondary level, and rationalization of higher education;
(b)   seek more equitable funding mechanisms, targeted to basic education in poor
rural areas; and
(c)   support institution building to increase the capacity of educational authorities
at all levels to carry out their responsibilities, especially under conditions of
increasing operational decentralization.
1.15        In line with the above assistance strategy, since 1981 the Bank has supported
15 projects in China which were either devoted entirely to the education sector or had
substantial education sector components. The total loan and credit amount for education
was $1,298.8 million. In the early 1980s, four successive higher education projects
assisted expansion and quality improvements in prominent universities, mainly key
universities managed by SEdC, the television universities and the larger provincially
operated universities, and supported founding the polytechnic system which has since
proliferated. Since 1985, IDA has assisted the Government in its effort to increase
provision of textbooks, upgrade lower middle school (LMS) teachers and improve the
conditions of vocational schools.  It has also financed a project in the relatively
disadvantaged province of Gansu, managed by the provincial government, part of which
addresses the education sector. This latter project has had smooth implementation, good
results and will be completed in late 1994. Most recently, support has been given to
education at the municipal level in three medium-sized cities, to key science and
engineering laboratories, to education in selected poor counties in six provinces (EDPP)
and LMS teacher training in fifteen provinces.
1.16        Sector studies related to education finance were issued in 1986 and 1991.
Other sector studies were done on technical/vocational education and training for labor
markets in 1987 and 1993 respectively, and informal sector work on teacher training was
carried out in 1991. These, combined with extensive experience in preparing and
supervising projects over the past decade, provide considerable background for
identification of sectoral needs and opportunities.
D. LEssoNS LEARNED
1.17        Valuable lessons have been learned from the development and early
implementation of the EDPP project from which project design elements, selection criteria,
monitorable indicators, and much structural component formulation has been adopted for
the proposed project. Much of the same national level SEdC project development team
and the Chinese academic advisory group which worked on the EDPP project is intact and
continues to work on the development of the current project. Likewise, many of the Bank
Group and Chinese staff who worked on the former project now work on the latter.
Lessons which have been learned from the EDPP project and applied to the current
proposed project are:



- 8 -
(a)   projects are better designed and implemented when they concentrate on a
reduced number of provinces, and when provincial and county authorities
are involved in their design. This is especially true for projects that assist
provincially and locally financed institutions;
(b)   there is a need to improve govemment's ability to plan and monitor project
activities, and to take corrective actions when needed;
(c)   the Association and the Govemment need to work together in the evaluation
of education reforms. Work has started on developing a standardized
mechanism to measure student achievement, student attendance, and
indicators of progress, but continued focus on these issues is important; and
(d)   national coordination of technical assistance, high level training, collection
of educational and project indicators, and dissemination of lessons learned
is necessary to achieve efficiencies of scale, and country-wide coherence in
the development and expression of education policy and national standards.



- 9 -
2. TIE PROJECT
A. PRoJEcr OBJEcTIvEs
2.1          The main project objectives are to (a) support the attainment of universal
primary education and the expansion of coverage of lower secondary education in poor and
minority areas, and (b) build stronger institutions responsible for education delivery. The
project will contribute to the Government's poverty reduction efforts by focusing on
education, and thus the income earning potential of nearly 5 million school children in
some of the poorer counties in China. The project will have a direct impact on
approximately 40,000 schools, and will provide varying lengths of training for
approximately 135,000 teachers and education managers.
2.2          The project will support the government's efforts to make primary education
universal by putting more educational inputs into teaching points, increasing the enrollment
in complete schools, expanding multigrade and multi-subject teaching in rural areas, and
reducing drop-out rates of minority children through improved bilingual educational
programs. Additionally the project will assist in the implementation of an action program
in participating counties designed gradually to overcome problems of low efficiency, and
address the issues of utilization of teaching staff in normal schools, high repetition in rural
secondary schools and underutilization of buildings and laboratories in lower secondary
schools and rural normal schools.
2.3          The project will support the government's efforts 1/ to focus special
attention and resources on girls' and bilingual education. Rates of girls' enrollment in
primary schools and transition into lower secondary school lag behind those of boys (see
Annex 1). This is especially true in provinces and counties with a high percentage of
minority population. In the rural primary schools and lower middle schools, special
project achievement targets have been established for girls' enrollment and transition rates
(see Annex n. County and township educational management staff will take part in special
local level campaigns to inform parents of their obligation to send their girls to school.
Project provinces and counties have committed themselves to targeted interventions to
increase girls' access to school by selectively providing free textbooks to girls from poor
families. The project will work with the UNICEF supported experiment to identify, train
and support young women school principals to provide role models for girl students. The
initial national focus of the project's innovation program (see para. 2.33 below) will be on
1/    Govemment efforts in girls' education include such policies as: reduction of school fees and froe
textbooks for targeted groups of poor girls; increasing the numbers of female elementary school
teachers enrolled in teacher training institutions; training female principals to act as role models; and
experiments in all-girl schools.



- 10 -
girls' education and this activity will be initiated through a regional seminar on the subject
organized by the Bank's Economics Development Institute (EDI). The innovation program
will support policy oriented research focused on culturally and locally specific causes for
low girls' enrollments and transition rates and possible interventions to overcome these
problems. The innovation program will also fund research of the current SEdC-supported
experiments being carried out in single-sex classes in such provinces as Ningxia.
2.4         Likewise, bilingual education will be supported through the use of specially
earmarked funds in the innovation program for the production, publication and distribution
of bilingual reading and teaching materials. Special staff training and international study
tours are to be organized for national and provincial level teaching, research and
educational management personnel. The innovation program will support experiments in
the use of distance education in teaching widely dispersed minority children in pastoral
counties of the Northwest.
B. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT
2.5         This proposed lending operation is consistent with the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) discussed by the Board on August 3, 1993. For the social sectors the CAS
calls for priority to be given to the problems of the poorest areas, including basic education
for girls.  China has two ongoing IDA-supported education projects to assist poor
provinces in their efforts to universalize basic education, Gansu Provincial Development
Project-Education Component (Loan 2812/Credit 1793-CHA) and Educational
Development in Poor Provinces (EDPP) Project (Credit 2339-CHA). Implementation of
these projects is proceeding smoothly and experience gained from them has been used in
the design of this proposed project. Through this project IDA would be deepening its
support for China's efforts in improving basic education in poor and remote areas,
including those inhabited by minority nationalities. IDA support is important in focussing
Government's efforts on poverty alleviation and improving the design and implementation
of such efforts. The proposed project would be in line with the findings of the Bank's
report China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s (Report No. 10409-CHA,
1992) which identifies investment in human capital, in particular targeted intervention to
the poor and vulnerable, as a key component of poverty alleviation efforts, leading to
healthier and smaller families, higher rates of adopting new agricultural technology, and
increased access to alternative off-farm employment. The project also incorporates IDA's
concern for improving the status of women in the development process, by supporting
targeted operations research activities and possible consequent interventions to increase
girls' enrollments, especially in minority areas.
C. PRojEcr DESIGN AND PREPARATION
2.6         The project has been designed to further develop the borrower's capacity to
prepare and implement projects. Building on the sector work which informed the design
of the EDPP project as well as the current proposed project, SEdC, with IDA's assistance,
has prepared six subprojects, one for each province. Five of the six subprojects have been
fully reviewed. The sixth subproject, Ningxia, has been prepared by the provincial



- 11 -
authorities with assistance from SEdC and IDA. IDA has done a preliminary review of
the Ningxia subproject; SEdC will carry out a full review according to agreed criteria
(Annex 5). The SEdC report will be reviewed by the Association. In this manner, SEdC
assumes greater responsibility for project preparation with the Association's role primarily
being that of approving the subprojects which have been reviewed by SEdC before they
can be included in the project.
2.7          This approach will be expanded and refined for the preparation of possible
future education projects, using revised and updated project identification, coverage
selection, subproject preparation, project implementation, and monitoring instruments now
being used in the current project. This process will also allow for the utilization and
dissemination of policies and actions which come from this project's innovation program
well beyond the confines of provinces supported by this project. Goals such as decreased
girls dropout before completion of grade five, increased usage of bilingual teaching
materials and wider use of multigrade teaching, will take time to gain a level of general
acceptance and the program approach will provide the continuing support for such policy
development for a period longer than the life of this one project.
2.8          Project Area and Selection Criteria. The project area covers at least 111
counties in six of China's poorer provinces. The main criteria used in the selection of the
provinces have been number of poor counties in the province, level of teacher
qualifications, percentage of minority population, primary school completion rate, and
girls' enrollment (see Annex 1) for list of provinces, counties and key benchmark
indicators). The main criteria used in the selection of the counties were inclusion on the
national or provincial list of poor counties and/or relative concentration of minority
population among overall county population; poverty indicators such as public expenditure
for education as a percentage of provincial expenditure and books per pupil at primary
level; and teaching and management needs such as percentages of repetition, primary
enrollment, and girls' enrollment, transition rate from primary to secondary education, and
percentage of qualified teachers. (Selection criteria and their numerical weighting can be
found in Annex 8.)
2.9          The identification of the key educational issues to be addressed by the
project derives from studies carried out jointly by the Association and members of the
Chinese education research community,2/ as well as from the development and
implementation of the early stages of the EDPP project. Likewise, identification of the
key poverty intervention issues to be addressed in the project resulted from studies carried
out jointly by IDA and Chinese social scientists.a/ These studies were discussed with
SEdC. Priorities for project focus were determined in the course of identification and
preparation. Special attention has been given to procedures for selection of the provinces
and more importantly, the poor counties (including those with substantial minority
Z/    See China: Provincial Education Sector Planning and Finance, Sector Study, The World Bank,
China and Mongolia Department, Report No. 8657-CHA.
3/    China: Strategies for Reducing Poverty in the 1990s, ibid.



- 12 -
populations) which are included in the project. In addition, special attention has been
given to the design of appropriate training and management development programs, to
formulation of national seminars and to setting up of a system to carry out the innovation
programs provided for under the project. All of these topics were discussed and settled
upon jointly by the Association and the Chinese Government staff during project
preparation and appraisal.
2.10        Borrower Involvement in Project Preparation. SEdC, having studied the
preparation and early implementation experience of the EDPP project, organized three
working groups which were instrumental in project preparation and will be used in project
implementation (see paras. 4.6-4.9). These groups are (a) a Project Working Group,
comprising working level staff from SEdC's Departments of Finance, Foreign Investment
and Loan Office (FILO), Minority Education, Basic Education, Equipment, Teacher
Training and Supervision, which has been responsible for organizing all project preparatory
activities; (b) the Project Leading Group, comprising the directors of departments
represented in the first group and responsible for providing guidance and coordination and
resolving major implementation issues that may arise; and (c) the Project Eapert
Consultative Group, comprising 7-9 non-SEdC experts specializing in basic education,
minority/bilingual education, teacher training, curriculum development, civil works,
equipment and education management, which advised and made suggestions on project
preparation. Directors of project implementation units from Yunnan, Shanxi and Hubei
provinces, all in the earlier EDPP project, are members of the Project Working Group to
ensure continuous input into the development of the programs in the project-supported
provinces as well as training of new project implementation staff.
D. PRoJEcT DESCRIPIION
2.11        The project will, over a period of five and a half years, provide assistance
through an institutional component directly supporting the delivery of educational inputs
(i.e., civil works, furniture, equipment and book procurement, teacher and administrator
training) at the primary, lower secondary and normal schools in the participating provinces;
a management component providing for better operational control of the educational system
at the school, county and provincial level; and a quality enhancement component fostering
improvements, innovations and reforms in teaching, access to education, girls' education
and bilingual textbooks; and supporting national capacity building and coordination of
activities common to the project provinces by strengthening SEdC's ability to implement
and replicate basic education projects. A rough percentage distribution of project financing
will be civil works-70 percent, equipment, books and furniture-20 percent, and technical
assistance 10 percent. The main features of each component are described below.
Institutional Component (Base cost $127.0 million)
2.12        This component will include facilities upgrading, instructional equipment,
staff upgrading and a small normal schools pilot activity. Technical assistance in this
component relates directly to training classroom teachers, school principals and local



- 13 -
education administrators to provide better instruction in and leadership of the education
institutions at the provincial, county and village levels.
2.13          Facilities Upgrading (Base cost $91.0 million). The project will finance
civil works including renovation, rehabilitation, and some necessary new construction of
primary and lower secondary schools. Of the 24.8 million square meters (m2) of primary
and lower secondary school premises now existing in the 111 counties to be assisted in the
project about 5 percent is in such poor or dangerous condition that complete replacement
may be necessary, while another 4 percent requires extensive repairs. Lesser repairs,
needed for a further 7 percent of the existing facilities, will be paid for entirely from
project government counterpart funds. The buildings in the worst condition are generally
old, decayed timber or timber and adobe structures, whose renovation, even where
practicable, would not be cost effective. Newer school buildings are, typically, three-story
concrete frame and brick structures generally planned and built in compliance with SEdC
space planning and construction guidelines.
2.14          Even with the damaged and poorly maintained elements of existing premises
replaced or repaired as necessary to make them safe and fully effective, the schools in the
counties of the first five subprojects require an additional 0.5 million m2 of space at the
present time and a further 1.4 million m2 by the year 2000 to adequately accommodate
SEdC's plans for nine-year basic education goals.4/
2.15          Architectural and engineering design work for the new  buildings, the
additional space needed by the year 2000 and the repair of damaged facilities has been
undertaken: in Inner Mongolia, by the provincial polytechnic institute; in Xinjiang, by the
architectural design institute of the provincial industrial college; and in other provinces,
by county construction bureaus under the supervision of provincial construction
departments. Design work is based on the space norms and construction guidelines
distributed by the Capital Construction Department of SEdC, which are the basis of school
construction in the precursor EDPP project. Arrangements for construction will be
handled, in all provinces, by county construction bureaus with the support of the provincial
construction departments or-where capabilities at the county level are inadequate-entirely
by the latter.5i/
4/    The requirements for compliance with SEdC's nine-year basic education goals-which bear on the
estimates of additional space needs (current and for the year 2000)-include requirements for
separate laboratories for Chemistry, Physics and Biology in lower secondary schools. In view of the
probably very low utilization of such separate laboratories in all but very large schools, the
Government will consider whether a single, combined-use laboratory would not be adequate in most
schools-and, thereby, make savings available to provide additional basic teaching space at the
village level. The Government also indicated that, as an alternative to providing boarding facilities
for primary school students, the project provinces might consider the expansion of teaching points
to serve primary school students up to the sixth grade and, thereby, make it unnecessary for them
to leave home.
5/     The provincial construction departments of the provinces involved in the EDPP project have shown
themselves capable of handling such design and construction management activities.



- 14 -
2.16        Implementation of the civil works portion of the project will be phased over
five years and will be integrated with that of such essentially related activities as the
procurement of teaching equipment and furniture and the training of teachers. In the
phasing process, priority will be given to the replacement of dangerous structures. School
maintenance plans will be prepared annually for organizing maintenance of the primary
and lower secondary schools assisted by this project.  The provincially provided
maintenance of school buildings will be adequately funded from counterpart funds to
prevent deterioration of the teaching environment.
2.17         Instructional Equipment, Furniture and Books (Base cost $25.3 million).
The project will upgrade the instructional equipment in those schools with currently
incomplete sets of equipment. The majority of schools in the project have not received any
equipment in the last 10 years. Because the emphasis has been on building and repairing
schools, poor counties find themselves at a great disadvantage in terms of school
equipment. This fact creates serious discrepancies between the kind of teaching that takes
place in more affluent places and the rote memory/passive teaching one sees in small
village schools where there are no posters, maps, or simple measuring devices or materials
to conduct the simple electricity and optics experiments included in the curriculum.
2.18        The project will attempt to decrease these disparities by upgrading those
schools with incomplete equipment kits to Standard Three level, and similarly to upgrade
existing Standard Three schools to Standard Two. SEdC classifies equipment needs
("Standard Levels") by school size, centrality and teacher training responsibility, conducts
periodic survey to assess current levels and new procurement needs, and has, for this
project identified specific requirements for project supported schools. Equipment lists have
been prepared for the project by SEdC and reviewed and approved by the Chinese Project
Expert Consultative Group using criteria and procedures acceptable to the Association.
Key schools in project-supported counties will be the basis of an in-service training
program in equipment utilization. Teachers in key schools will be asked to be the trainers
for other teachers, to organize science clubs and science fairs. Library books will be
provided to both primary and lower middle schools.
2.19        Staff Upgrading (Base cost $10.7 million). An extensive program of staff
upgrading, largely in-country, will be provided under the project. Human resource
development is central to the success of the project. There are major challenges to be
faced in the design and delivery of appropriate initial and in-service training for teachers
and administrators. There is an over reliance on one-time initial training, too exclusive
a faith in the efficacy of correspondence education without appropriate and interactive
social phases, a lack of appropriate models, networks and structures to reach out to the
poorest and most remote schools and an emphasis on program content which is at best a
proxy for the real skills, knowledge and expertise needed by teachers and administrators.
2.20        Nearly 83,000 person/years of in-country training reaching approximately
135,000 participants will be carried out through one-year and short-term pre-service and
in-service courses. A limited number of study tours will be provided in such areas as
girls' education and bilingual education. In setting itineraries for the study tours, priority



- 15 -
will be given to selecting domestic locations which are good examples of innovative
policies or activities although some international visits may be considered if better
examples exist abroad.
2.21         In the financing plan for the project, the professional development of
teachers and administrators has been given a high priority. Training and education of staff
will be coordinated with the other aspects of the project, including civil works and the
delivery of equipment, material and books. Attention has been given in the design of the
training programs to (a) duration of professional development; (b) the content and
processes of programs; and (c) the style, pace and mode of delivery.
2.22         Five major groups of staff will be upgraded:  (a) elementary and lower
secondary teachers; (b) principals of primary and lower secondary schools, including those
in remote and rural principals and those facing challenges of bilingual or multicultural
education; (c) teachers' college and teachers' center lecturers and principals;
(d) administrators at local, provincial and national levels; and, (e) technicians and
librarians in schools and colleges.
2.23         Training of teachers and administrators will include both pre-service and in-
service modes of delivery. The content and processes of both modes of attendance will
be reviewed, updated and tested for their direct relevance to the work tasks of participants.
Special efforts will be made during the life of the project to offer an initial qualification
to the group of teachers currently teaching without qualifications.
2.24         In-service training will include (a) short school-based generic activities on
a regular and recurrent basis; (b) brief periods of intensive subject-specific in-service
training, coordinated with the delivery of new equipment, materials and books;
(c) professional support and development, delivered to remote schools by teacher educators
from teachers' colleges and/or centers; (d) longer-term withdrawal of staff for more
lengthy courses at teachers' colleges or centers; (e) regular retraining of principals in
clusters and at teachers centers and institutions for generic upgrading, or for specific
objectives, such as preparation for the receipt of new equipment, undertaking residential
duties, delivering bilingual education; (f) regular, intensive upgrading of administrators at
local and regional levels for six-week blocks of time; and (g) training of senior
administrators at national level for intensive and specific professional upgrading.
2.25         Normal School Pilot Activity.  The project will support a small pilot
activity in both Jiangxi and Sichuan Provinces in rationalizing and strengthening a small
number of normal schools (which train lower secondary school teachers). The main focus
of this subcomponent will be on increasing the quality and relevance of normal school
teacher training. This will be accomplished through support of a five-point normal school
reform program which is currently being put into place by SEdC: (a) reforms would be
initiated to help bridge the gap between teaching theory and practice. Such a program will
focus on changing teacher behavior as well as upgrading skills; (b) initiatives to recruit
more rural teachers will be introduced; (c) schools would revise their curriculum to suit
the needs of remote rural areas through, for example, emphases on multigrade teaching and



- 16 -
multi-subject teaching; (d) schools would strengthen teacher training in critical subject
areas such as math, science and Chinese language; (e) schools would develop systems of
on-going teacher support through, for example, in-service training, short cycle training,
distance education and development of teacher support networks.
2.26        Proposals for activities in this component which are to be supported by the
project have been prepared by both Jiangxi and Sichuan provinces, reviewed by SEdC and
reviewed and found acceptable at appraisal by the IDA mission. The proposals cover a
range of actions to be carried out with project support: (a) assistance in consolidating a
number of small and inefficient normal schools; (b) support of the new curriculum for
teaching lower secondary school teachers; (c) training of normal school administrators and
principals; and (d) further work at the provincial level on teacher demand and supply
projections.
Management Improvement Component (Base cost $0.7 million)
2.27        This component will develop management capabilities for the education
system at the central, provincial and institutional levels through staff training, the provision
of equipment and expert services. It will include three subcomponents: (a) the training
of local education management authorities; (b) the training of local project implementation
authorities; and (c) the development of an education information management system.
2.28        Local Education Management Training. The capacity of the education
offices in the 6 project provinces and 111 project counties to deal with education
management will be enhanced through extensive in-country training. This training for
provincial and county level education managers will include modem techniques and
methods in education management and resource utilization, and cover development of
appropriate policies and problem-solving skills, especially for those problems prevalent in
remote, rural, poor, and minority areas. Additionally, this subcomponent will provide
support for training provincial level education planners. Training will focus on identifying
and assessing the changing patterns of social demand and appropriate types and quality of
education delivery system to respond to China's rapid economic and social development.
The training will focus on the county and prefecture levels and will include workshops
(with SEdC participation) for education managers, administrators, and planners. The
training will include study of international experience, advanced planning techniques and
methods focused on the specific requirements of each province, building local skills, and
the use of computers and software for relevant planning models.
2.29        Project Management Training. This subcomponent will develop project
implementation capacity in each participating county through training provided by SEdC's
FILO-which includes project implementation in civil works, procurement, project launch,
accounting, and project monitoring. The training takes into consideration the experience
of the Association's first Poor Provinces project as well as other Association-supported
provincial-based education projects. Each province has established a project steering
committee and working group to train county staff, and a training program with timing of



- 17 -
activities and including required provincial and interprovincial workshops and necessary
local specialist services.
2.30        Education Management Information System. An education management
information system (EMIS) has been established in the provincial education commissions
(PEC) in almost all the provinces in China. Previous Association-supported projects
assisted in the establishment of EMIS in a number of counties in each of Inner Mongolia,
Guangxi, Jiangxi, and Sichuan. This project will support establishing an EMIS in the PEC
and participating counties of Xinjiang and Ningxia Autonomous Regions, as well as extend
the coverage in the other four project-supported provinces and regions, using the
previously agreed SEdC standards. Training for the EMIS operators and the end-users will
be scheduled according to the timing of hardware procurement and software development
and will cover traditional software and hardware training, data collection, processing and
other related areas such as surveys, sampling and advanced techniques of statistical
applications; advanced methods of education planning and analysis and applications of
relevant computer software.
Quality Enhancement Component (Base cost $2.6 million)
2.31        The project will promote innovations and other improvements in primary and
lower secondary schools by supporting a program of self-generated improvement activities
and the development of minority and bilingual book and textbook preparation, production,
publication and distribution. The purpose of these activities will be to expose Chinese
educators to possible changes in practices which they will then be responsible for applying
within the Chinese context. Additionally, this component will support a national level
human resource capacity building program. SEdC will carry out the activities under this
component, including procuring goods and services necessary to implement these activities,
and will enter into internal arrangements with the provinces to enable SEDC to recover
these costs from the provinces.
2.32        Innovation Program. The Chinese educational system faces many new
challenges. First, new economic policies have resulted in significant differences in
resource availability among and within regions. Second, on-going decentralization of
educational finance and management raises issues of equity, institutional development, and
ensuring delivery of services to the very poor. Third, as China approaches universal basic
education it must look for new and innovative means of providing education to the most
difficult-to-reach segments of its population. To find ways of meeting these new
challenges the government plans to adopt a program of innovation and experimentation in
education delivery (see Annex 10 for more details.)
2.33        The innovation program will provide resources to facilitate research and
experimentation to:
(a)   improve education delivery to poor and minority communities;



- 18 -
(b)   work with individual schools and school principals, as well as county and
provincial educational bureaus, to overcome problems of girls' education
especially low initial enrollment, high repetition rates, and low transition
rates to lower secondary schools;
(c)   help schools adapt to rapidly changing social and economic conditions;
develop new models of pre- and in-service staff training and to test those out
during the life of the project for successful generalization; and
(d)   provide training and technical assistance in minority language publishing
skills, especially in compiling textbooks and other reading materials (to
cover writing, editing and revising), desktop publishing and in publishing
management.
2.34        The program will focus on a limited number of topics directly related to the
goals of the project. It will be coordinated at the national level, but largely administered
and implemented at the provincial level. The project will provide funds for support of
seminars to disseminate the results of innovation program research projects. International
technical assistance will provide the national level coordinating committee with advice on
fund management, research and experimentation design, subproject monitoring, and
dissemination. Priority topics for research or experimentation will be decided by the
national coordinating committee in consultation with provincial and county authorities.
Proposals will be judged according to their contribution to priority areas of research,
innovativeness, wider applicability within poor and minority areas, "monitorability", and
contribution to institutional strengthening. Consideration will also be given to spreading
resources among and within provinces. The program will be coordinated by SEdC Finance
Department and administered by an Innovation Assessment Group (IAG) which itself will
be supported by a secretariat.
2.35        National Capacity Building. SEdC will implement a number of activities
common to all the project provinces. These include national level management training
(see para. 2.36), seminars, short course programs, and a limited number of overseas
training and study tours. Other national level activities include (a) support for a Chinese
Experts Panel (CEP) (already formed) which will provide ongoing advice on project
implementation and a project monitoring capability; (b) establishment of the IAG which
will oversee the innovation program; and (c) support for the establishment an Minority
Education Training Center (METC) within the National Academy of Education
Administration (NAEA) (see para. 2.37). SEdC implementation of these national level
activities which will further build their project implementation capabilities and allow for
their replication of these types of components in possible future basic education projects.
2.36        The centrally coordinated technical assistance will include (a) and series of
National Seminars; (b) the innovation program Dissemination Seminars and (c) overseas
training and study tours. Five national level management seminars which will focus on
(a) educational administrators training (on civil works, equipment, books, management,
etc.); (b) minority principals training; (c) county level educational bureau directors training



- 19 -
of project counties; (d) training of project county magistrates in charge of education; and
(e) training of education managers.
2.37        The Minority Education Training Center (METC), to be established as a part
of SEdC's National Academy for Education Administration (NAEA), will (a) train minority
educational administrators and school principals; (b) carry out policy research; (c) develop
specialized teaching materials for schools in minority areas; and (d) develop and share best
practices in school administration, and positive results which come from the project's own
policy focused research (see para. 2.33). The project will finance portions of all of these
activities plus a limited amount of civil works necessary to provide training and living
facilities for minority educators and administrators who are brought to Beijing for courses.
Establishment of the METC would be a condition of effectiveness.
E. ENVIRONMNTAL ASPECTS AND PROGRAM OBJECrIVE CATEGORIES
2.38        No negative environmental impact from the project is foreseen. Likewise,
no resettlement or land acquisition is foreseen in that all new civil works will be
rehabilitation or repair of schools on existing school sites. Improved access to and quality
of basic education will enhance the ability of the poor to take advantage of the
opportunities presented by economic growth, either in their own counties or areas of faster
economic development.  Improved overall access to education will increase girls'
enrollments.  The project, through its targeted training programs, will increase the
numbers of women teachers and principals and thus encourage enrollment and retention
of girls in schools. It has been shown that improved quality of education in general also
increases the retention of girls, with resultant economic and social benefits.



- 20 -
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. PROJECT CosTs
3.1                The project cost is estimated at $177.0  million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of $6.1 million equivalent (about 3 percent) and no taxes and duties.
Project costs are summarized by component in Table 3.1 and by category in Table 3.2.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECr COSTs BY COMPONENT
Total
Foreign   base
Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign   Total   exchange  cosa
--         (Y'000)             -   (S 000) -(%)                    ()
A. Institutional Component (IC)
1. Facility Upgrading                          792.1        -  792.1   91,048.3          - 91,048.3       -        70
2. Instructional Equipment/
Books/Furniture                            220.0         -  220.0  25,291.8           -  25,291.8      -        19
3. Staff Developnent                            44.2     48.7    92.9    5,081.4  5,596.7  10,678.1    52            8
Subtotal Institutional Component (IC)       1,056.3    48.7 1,1050  121 421.5  5 596.7 127,018.2         4        97
B. Management Improvement Component (MI)
1. ManagementTraining                            2.7        -     2.7      315.9         -    315.9        -         -
2. Educ. Management Info. System                 0.0      3.5      3.5          -   400.0    400.0   100             -
Subtotal Manragement lmprovement(MI)            2.7      3.5     6.2      315.9   400.0    715.9    56             1
C. Quality Enhancement Component (QE)
1. Innovations                                  13.6        -    13.6    1,570.9         -   1,570.9      -          1
2. National Capacity Building                    8.7        -      8.7    1,000.0        -   1,000.0       -         I
Subtotal Quality Enhancenent (QE)              22.3        -    22.3    2,5709          -   2570.9       -
Total Baseline Costa                        10813       52.2 1.133 .5  124 308.3  5,9967 1303 3050       5       100
Physical contingencies                          81.6      0.4    82.0    9,378.0    48.7   9,426.7        1          7
Price contingencies                            323.8      0.7  324.5   37,215.7       78.9  37,294.6       -       29
Total Proiect Coss                          1 486.7    53.3 15400 0170902.0  6,124.3 177 026.3           3       136
3.2                Unit Costs. Base costs are expressed in January 1994 prices. Civil works
costs are based on the construction of similar schools in 10 pilot counties during late 1993.
Costs of equipment, books and materials are based on contracts for similar items awarded
recently. Technical assistance costs for internationally recruited experts include costs of
salaries, allowances and airfares.



- 21 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY
%       total
foreign    base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign         Total  exchange   costs
(Y'low)                            ($'000)       -
invstment Cotab
A. Civil Works                   792.1          -     792.1     91,048.3          -    91,048.3         -        70
B. Furniture                      28.1          -      28.1      3,226.2          -      3,226.2        -         2
C. Equipment
1. Equipment School             147.8         -     147.8     16,995.4          -     16,995.4        -        13
2. Equipment MIS                    -       3.5       3.5             -     400.0        400.0      100          -
Subtot Equipment                 147.8       3.5     151.3      6995.4       400.0     17.395.4        2        13
D. Books                          44.1          -      44.1      5,070.2          -      5,070.2        -         4
E. Technical Assisance
1. Teacher Training             44.2      44.2       88.4      5,081.4   5,081.4     10,162.8       50         8
2. Project Mgmt. Training        2.7          -       2.7        315.9          -       315.9         -         -
3. National Tech. Asta.            -       4.5        4.5            -     515.3        515.3       100         -
Subtotal Technical Assitance      46.9      48.7      95.6      5 397.3   5.596.7    109      0       51
F. National Program               22.3          -      22.3      2,570.9          -      2,570.9        -         2
Total Baeline Costa             1081.3      52.2   1,133.5   124.308.3   5.996.    130305.0            5       100
Physical contingencies              81.6       0.4      82.0       9,378.0      48.7      9,426.7        1         7
Price contingencies                323.8       0.7     324.5    37,215.7        78.9    37,294.6         -        29
Total Proiect Costs            1,4867       53.3   1Q5400    170,902.0   6,124.3    177.026.3          3       136
3.3                Contingency allowances have been estimated as follows.  For local
expenditures  (excluding  civil works), 9.0  percent for  1995, 8.0  percent for 1996, 7.2
percent for 1997, 6.5 percent for 1998 and 1999, and 6.0 percent thereafter; for civil
works, 12 percent for 1995; 10 percent for 1996, and 8 percent for 1997 and beyond; for
foreign expenditures, 2.4 percent for 1995, 3.2 percent for 1996, 3.4 percent for 1997 and
3.2 percent for 1998 and beyond.
B. FINANCING PLAN
3.4                IDA will finance SDR 69.2 million or $100 million equivalent, and the
provinces, local municipalities and counties $77.0 million. The credit will cover all the
foreign exchange requirements and about 55 percent of local costs. The project's financing
plan is given in Table 3.3. The provincial governments' debt service obligation for the
credit will be less than 1-2 percent of their total revenues. Approximately 98 percent of
the proposed credit will be onlent to the project provinces at 1.2 percent. The balance
(approximately $2.0 million) would be for the central government component. At



- 22 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
Local          Foreign            Total
-------------------- ($ million) --------------------
Government of China                    76.2               0.8             77.0
IDA                                    97.9               2.1            100.0
Total                              174.1              2.9            177.0
negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom the Government that it will make a part of the
proceeds of the Credit available to participating provinces, to be repaid over 20 years with
a service charge of 1.2 percent per annum, including a 5-year grace period. The
provincial governments will bear the foreign exchange risks on those proceeds.
3.5         Sustainability and Affordability. The project will partially finance school-
based activities at the village, township, county and provincial level, activities which are
embedded within and support the key national education policy of achieving universal 9-
year education by the year 2000. The moderate level of IDA financing for the project
(approximately 56 percent) and the annual provincial level of counterpart funding necessary
for the project as a ratio of the 1992 provincial educational budgets (i.e., a modest
10.6 percent on average-See Annex 2, Table 1) increase both the chances for
sustainability and affordability of the project activities. Provincial education budgets are
set for 1995 and 1996 and are generally expected to go up after that period which will
decrease the percentage of counterpart funding as a part of the provincial budgets.
Additionally, the source of provincial counterpart funding is balanced and sustainable-on
average approximately 27 percent from the county, 66 percent from the province (half of
which comes from the education surtax) and 7 percent from the national level (See Annex
2, Table 2). Likewise, the poverty reduction focus of the project is central to the
Government's recently announced 7-year plan to eliminate abject poverty by the year 2000,
a plan that specifically aims at upgrading education and literacy in backward and poor
areas. Built into the project are maintenance costs for schools, classrooms and equipment
procured under the project, equipment procurement, technical assistance and training to
develop a planning enhancing MIS system. One component of the project, the innovations
program, specifically supports policy-focussed research and experiments in areas of
increased efficiency school administration. The training of approximately 135,000 teachers
and school managers builds and strengthens existing and new human resource capacity
which will remain in place long after the end of the project.



- 23 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
4.1         Project Design. Each Participating Province has been closely involved in
project preparation, producing action and financing plans to be implemented during the
project period, accompanied by indicators to monitor progress in implementing these action
plans. These action plans and indicators are contained in the Project Implementation Plans
(PIP) which have been produced at both the national and provincial levels. (The key
elements of these PIPs are presented in Annexes 2-7 and summarized in Annex 3; a copy
of the full PIP is placed in the Project Files.) The provincially produced action and
financing plans are based on the project preparation plans and outlines prepared jointly by
the Association and SEdC to develop the subprojects in each of the project-supported
counties. The national level PIP outlines activities undertaken by SEdC.
4.2         Education  Programs  and  Education  Program  Implementation
Arrangements. Education Programs are those activities contained in the Participating
Province's action plans which have been reviewed, appraised and found acceptable by IDA
as project supported activities. PIPs referred to in para. 4.1 above describe how a
participating province will implement and monitor its Education Program. At negotiations,
assurances were obtained that in order to qualify as an Education Program, eligible for
IDA financing, the activities proposed would have to meet appraisal guidelines acceptable
to IDA, including preparation by the province of a first-year action plan for implementation
of such activities, and be approved by IDA. IDA has approved Education Programs for
five provinces and their first-year implementation action plans and financing plans. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the participating provinces would carry out the
Education Programs. Additionally, the Borrower will be required to enter into Education
Program Implementation Arrangements (EPIAs) with Participating Provinces for the
carrying out of the province's Education Program. Conclusion of EPhAs with at leastfive
provinces would be a condition of effectiveness. Under the EPIAs, the participating
provinces will undertake to prepare and furnish to IDA by October 1 of each year, for
approval, action plans for the implementation of their Education Programs during the
following year.
4.3         Project Implementation Targets. Project implementation targets have been
established jointly by the State Education Commission, each of the project-supported
provinces, and the Association. (See Annex 7 for the Provincial Targets set by and for
Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region as an example.) These targets-for both national and
provincial level activities-are contained in the individual PIPs and are based on existing,
verified baseline data (see Annex 1J. The provincial education commissions' capability to
annually collect and analyze data at the provincial and county levels will be enhanced by



- 24 -
the project-supported Educational Management Information Systems (EMIS)-including
hardware procurement, software development and utilization training-which have been
put in place in four provinces by a previous IDA-supported project and the two additional
provinces which will be supported by the current project. Standards developed during
earlier IDA-supported projects and now accepted and set by SEdC are being used for the
hardware, software and training. Reports based on the data collection and analysis will
be available for the mid-term review, initial preparation of the project completion report,
and at the closing of the project. All targets are the result of discussions between
provincial and national education commissions and IDA mission and are based on the
development and early implementation experience of the EDPP project. At negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Borrower will monitor and evaluate project progress on
the basis of indicators acceptable to the Association, and furnish the Association with the
results of such reviews by April 1 of each year, as well as by June 30, 1997 for the mid-
term review. These indicators are found in the national and provincial PIPs. If such
monitoring by the govemment reveals problems in project implementation, the government
will undertake corrective measures acceptable to the Association and within the current
scope and duration of the project.
4.4         Innovations Programs.  To implement the Innovation Program, each
participating province will, by October 1 of each year prepare and furnish to the IAG for
approval research activities proposed to be included in its next year's Innovation Program;
IAG will furnish to IDA by December 1 of each year for approval the list of proposals
approved by IAG. Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
4.5         Impact on Nonproject Counties.  Because the project will be financing
educational inputs in a limited number of the poor counties in each participating province
and the need for increased educational inputs manifestly exists in the remaining poor
counties not covered by the project, each participating province would provide financing
and action plans for educational inputs into poor counties not supported by the project.
(See Annex 4 for the levels of committed provincial funding for nonproject counties). In
this fashion the IDA credit inputs, coupled with the provinces' own financing for
nonproject supported counties, will provide a broader program approach of dealing with
strengthening basic education in all of a province's poor counties. This program approach
will also increase the institutional capacity of SEdC and other provinces to prepare further
poverty-focused basic education projects with or without possible future IDA support. At
negotiations assurances were obtained that participating provinces will (a) as a condition
ofparticipation, prepare acceptable action plansfor nonproject counties designed to ensure
that educational achievements in these counties will not deteriorate during the
implementation of the project; and (b) under the Educational Implementation Arrangements
undertake to carry out these action plans and monitor education achievements in nonproject
counties on the basis of indicators acceptable to IDA and furnish a mid-term report and
an end-of-project report on this monitoring to the Borrower for forwarding to IDA.
Assurances were also obtained that the Borrower would evaluate these reports and report
to IDA by June 30, 1997 and December 31, 1999, respectively, on the achievements in
these counties.



- 25 -
B. MANAGEMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.6         National Level Implementation.   SEdC will implement national level
project activities in which each province has a shared involvement (see paras. 2.31-2.37).
These activities will include national level training, foreign study tours and overseas study,
reporting, and the innovation program. SEdC's Finance Department will oversee the
project's innovation program (see Annex 10 for details). With the exception of the
innovation program, all other national level activities will be implemented by the Foreign
Investment and Loan Office (FILO) and other appropriate SEdC technical departments,
using technical and administrative resources which are familiar to the Association and have
proved satisfactory in the past.  FILO was formed in 1981 to implement the first
University Development Project (Loan 2021-CHA and Credit 1167-CHA) and has
extensive experience in the technical aspects of project execution.  The aspects of
implementation devolved to provincial educational bureaus will include development of the
education management information system (EMIS) at that level, with coordination of FILO
and the Educational Management Information Center of SEdC. A mid-term review of
project progress will be held using information provided by the EMIS.
4.7         Capacity Building. It is proposed that SEdC's responsibilities in project
implementation would be increased under this project, in view of its growing capabilities
and experience with IDA financed projects. Specifically, SEdC will assume responsibility
for:
(a)   appraisal of the new subprojects, following the procedures and guidelines
outlined in Annex 5. The Association will review and approve SEdC's
appraisal report before each subproject may participate in the project. This
approach would build SEdC's capacity to carry out such processes and
facilitate replication in nonproject areas;
(b)   carrying out of national level training activities (including a limited number
of study tours and overseas training programs) outlined in paras. 2.35-2.36
in accordance with an action plan acceptable to the Association;
(c)   coordination and oversight of project implementation carried out at the
national, provincial, prefectural and county levels;
(d)   carrying out of periodic supervision, together with the Provincial authorities,
of action plan implementation at the provincial, prefectural and county level.
This would entail review meetings at the provincial level and sample visits
to counties. One review meeting will include Bank staff participation; and
(e)   preparation of a mid-term review report by June 30, 1997 and project
completion report in a format agreeable to the Association.
At negotiations, assurances to this effect were obtained from the Borrower.



- 26 -
4.8         Provincial Level Implementation. Since the bulk of project activities will
take place in the provinces, the main implementation responsibilities will be assumed at
that level, with SEdC providing overall guidance and coordination of certain national
program TA activities, and arranging for joint procurement where appropriate. At the
provincial level, Foreign Investment and Loan Offices (FILOs) have been formed, headed
by the Vice Commissioners of the respective Provincial Education Commissions, and
staffed with officials familiar with education planning and management, financial
management and accounting, civil works and equipment. A similar structure has been
repeated at the county level. The provincial FILOs will be responsible for overseeing the
activities of the county FILOs and arranging for the necessary training. This model has
worked in the implementation of the EDPP project. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that provincial and county level project units would be established and adequately
staffed as a condition of participating in the project. Assurances were also obtained that
these units would be maintained during the project period.
4.9         Advisory Panels. The Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) has been organized
by SEdC to assist in the implementation of the project at both the national and provincial
level. It will report to SEdC's FILO. The Panel will (a) advise provinces and counties
on the development and implementation of educational plans; (b) advise on the
development and implementation of staff training activities; (c) periodically monitor
implementation progress by reviewing project indicators; and (d) monitor the educational
achievement targets for the project provinces nonproject supported counties at mid-term
and project completion. The Panel is composed of representatives from the Government,
educational research units, and Chinese universities. (See Annex 9 for detailed TOR and
budget.)  Additionally, SEdC's Finance Department will organize an Innovations
Assessment Group (IAG) which will be responsible for coordinating the implementation of
the innovation program. Assurances were obtained regarding the composition, role,
procedures and responsibility of the Group, including adequate staffing, and budget
acceptable to the Association.  Establishment of the  AG will be a condition of
effectiveness.
C. PROCUREMENT
4.10        Civil works ($132.0 million) include new construction as well as major and
minor repairs of school buildings. Most of the schools are in small villages or dispersed
rural areas and therefore it is unlikely that foreign contractors will be interested in bidding.
New construction and major repairs costing more than $40,000 each will be awarded
through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) under procedures acceptable to the Association.
Minor repairs and works expected to cost $40,000 or less each, to an aggregate of about
$24.0 million may be carried out through force account. Construction supervision will be
coordinated by County Construction Bureaus and supervised by the Provincial Construction
Bureaus. Standard bid documents prepared in China will be used for LCB. Each
province, by October 1 each year, will provide the Association with the next year's annual
civil works plan for the Association's review and acceptance. This review will be part of
the annual joint SEdC/Provincial and Association review of the new year's action plan.



- 27 -
4.11        Goods ($31.1 million). Furniture for primary and lower secondary schools
will be procured by county construction bureaus on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Association, or for contracts of $25,000 or less, up to
$1.7 million in aggregate, through local shopping. Equipment and materials procured
under contracts above $200,000 will be awarded through ICB.  Standard bidding
documents issued by the Association will be used for ICB procurement. Contracts
estimated to cost between $25,000 and $200,000 for primary and secondary school
equipment and materials up to an aggregate amount not expected to exceed $20 million,
and all book contracts, will be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the
Association. Equipment and materials contracts with an estimated value of less than
$25,000 and an aggregate amount equivalent to $4 million for the project will be awarded
under local or intemational shopping procedures after solicitation and evaluation of at least
three written price quotations from eligible suppliers. Under ICB, local manufacturers
would be eligible for a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the
prevailing rate of custom duty, whichever is lower.
4.12        Teacher Training and Innovation Program  ($13.9 million) will be
contracted by County Education Bureaus with Teacher Training Institutions. Studies (i.e.,
innovation program), and domestic and international consultants will be selected by the
provinces with the assistance of the IAG and FILO, and following guidelines on the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers dated August 1981. Details on staff months and
costs are in the Project Implementation Plan.
4.13        Prior Review by the Association will be required for (a) all contracts for
consulting firms valued at $100,000 or more and for individual contracts valued at $50,000
or more; and (b) the first LCB civil works contract for primary or secondary schools in
each province. IDA review prior to inviting bids would thereafter be required for each
works or goods contract estimated to cost more than $300,000. The rest would be subject
to random sample survey review by IDA supervision missions. LCB procurement for
equipment is expected to take place through one major exercise in each province with an
appropriate number of packages for school level and equipment kit level. About two to
four equipment contracts per province will be subject to prior review. The Chinese
Experts Panel will review and approve all equipment lists. IDA will review annual
provincial procurement plans.
D. DSBURSEMENS
4.14        The proposed IDA Credit for SDR 69.2 million ($100.0 million equivalent)
will be disbursed over a period of five years as shown in Table 4.2 and Annex 2. The
percentages of disbursement for each (category) expenditure under the Credit are given in
Table 4.2, and follows a disbursement profile derived from earlier Bank experience in
basic education and teacher training projects, especially ones which contain a substantial
amount of civil works. Expenditures will be fully documented except for (a) training
programs; (b) contracts for works and goods valued at $300,000 equivalent or less; and
(c) contracts for consulting firms valued at $100,000 equivalent or less and for individual
consultants contracts valuated at $50,000 equivalent or less which will be reimbursed on



- 28 -
Table 4.1: SUMMARY OF PROCuREmENT ARRANGEmENG
($ million)
Project element                          Procurement method
ICB        LCB           Others        Total
A. Civil works               -        108.0         24.0         132.0
(54.0)       (11.4)        (65.4)
B.  Goods                    -         25.4          5.7          31.1
(19.4)        (4.9)        (24.3)
C. Technical assistance      -            -         11.8          11.8
(8.2)         (8.2)
D. Innovations                            -          2.1           2.1
(2.1)         (2.1)
Qal                                313.4         43.6         177.0
('34!        a6.         (l010?
Note: (1) Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by IDA.
(2) Others includes: local shopping, force accounts, and consulting services.
(3) Figures are rounded.
the basis of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). This SOE threshold has been established
based on the good prior experience of the implementing agency in the earlier EDPP project
and the nature of the project. The provincial project units will be responsible for preparing
withdrawal applications. County project units will prepare withdrawal applications for
submission to the Provincial Project Unit. FILO will review the applications and submit
them to the Association. Documents supporting the SOEs will be retained by SEdC and
made available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
Table 4.2: EsIMATED DisuRsEMENr PRoFIIE
($ million)
Bank FY            1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000
Annual              8.9      28.8      37.0      15.6       8.7       1.0
Cumulative          8.9      37.7      74.7      90.3      99.0     100.0



- 29 -
Table 4.3: DISBURSEMENS
IDA allocation    Percentage of expenditure
to be financed
Civil works                61.0           50%
Goods                      22.7           100% of foreign expenditures;
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost) for locally manufactured items;
75 % of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
Consultant services         2.0           100%
Training                    7.7           100% of foreign expenditures and
70% of local expenditures
Unallocated                 6.6
Toial                  100.0
4.15        A Special Account in United States dollars, with an authorized allocation
of $7.2 million based on four months average disbursements, will be established in a bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. It will be replenished monthly or
whenever it is drawn down to half its initial deposit level, whichever occurs first.
Disbursements for staff training in China or study tours abroad will be made from the
Special Account against the actual cost of travel, subsistence and training fees incurred.
4.16        Accounts and Audits. Provincial and national project accounts and details
of the Special Account will be maintained by FILO. Annual audits will be performed by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association. At negotiations, agreement was
reached that annual audit reports of national and provincial accounts will be submitted to
the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal year, and that the audit will
contain a separate opinion regarding the SOEs.
E. IDA MoNr1ORING OF PROJECT IMLEMENTATION
4.17        A project implementation chart is shown in Annex 12. During project
implementation periodic missions from the Association will review the progress of project
implementation, according to the IDA Supervision Plan and based on indicators both of
which are presented in Annexes 6 and 7 of the Staff Appraisal Report. FILO, with the
assistance of the Chinese Experts Panel and the Innovation Assessment Group, will monitor



- 30 -
progress on a province by province basis using indicators included in the agreed PIP for
each province. A mid-term review will be undertaken in June 1997.
4.18        Completion and Closing. The project is expected to become effective in
December 1994 with a completion date of December 31, 1999, and will be implemented
over a five-year period, plus 12 months for the completion of payments and full withdrawal
of credit proceeds. The credit is thus expected to close by December 31, 2000.
4.19        Project Reporting. Each year, IDA and SEdC will jointly review the
progress toward completion of the annual action plans found in the PIP and approve the
following year's annual action plan. Additionally annual reports on the progress of project
implementation will be prepared by FILO, beginning April 1, 1995, based on information
received from the PIP review meetings, operational units and agencies of the project.
These reports will give special attention to the development of the EMIS, teacher training
activities, and the innovation program. A project completion report will be prepared by
FILO and submitted to the Association within six months of the closing of the project.



- 31 -
5. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
5.1         The project is expected to benefit about 5 million of the poorest school
children in some of the economically more disadvantaged counties of some of China's
poorer provinces. It will significantly expand basic education among the poor, especially
in the remote areas inhabited by minority nationalities. Provision of education to remote
and rural areas not only helps to create opportunities for rural development but also helps
to provide the skills necessary to participate in the economic growth in township and urban
centers.  It would also improve school attendance of female students.  Minority
nationalities students will be better prepared to participate in Chinese schools in the upper
and postsecondary levels. Furthermore, the project includes specific interventions designed
to improve planning and management capacity of the Central, provincial and county
govemments to prepare and implement similar comprehensive projects and to replicated
them in other parts of the country. The project will have a direct impact on between 1/3
and all of the schools and children in 111 counties and approximately 40,000 schools, and
will provide varying lengths of training for approximately 135,000 teachers and education
managers.
B. RISKS
5.2         There are three main risks in this project. First, the provinces may not
ensure that the population in other poor counties (not covered in the project) would benefit
from improved access to and quality of basic education. To deal with this, the project
provinces will be required to prepare and implement acceptable action plans with
monitorable indicators to ensure that education achievements in non-project poor counties
will not deteriorate during the implementation (see para. 4.4). Second, the central,
provincial and county officials may be unable to oversee the implementation of the project
activities. Cognizant of this risk, management strengthening at all three levels is a
principal activity of the project. Additionally, lessons learned from implementing the IDA-
supported EDPP project will be included in the training of provincial and county level
implementation units for this project. Finally, there may be inadequate commitment on
the part of SEdC, project provinces and counties, which may result in insufficient
counterpart funding to match IDA credits. However, SEdC has indicated that it is willing
to allocate sufficient amounts of its own annual budgetary allocation for poor counties to
the 6 project provinces to assure adequate counterpart funding. Implementation experience
of the EDPP project and the strong provincial and county level work necessary to develop
the current project indicate that the risk is not considered excessive.



- 32 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS
6.1         During negotiations, agreements were reached that the Borrower will:
(a)   make available part of the proceeds of the Credit to Participating Provinces,
to be repaid over 20 years with a service charge of 1.2 percent per annum,
including a 5-year grace period (para. 3.4);
(b)   monitor and evaluate project progress in the basis of indicators acceptable
to the Association, and furnish the Association the results of such reviews
by April 1 of each year (para. 4.3);
(c)   furnish to IDA by December 1 of each year for approval proposed
Innovation Programs approved by IAG for the next year (para. 4.5);
(d)   appraise new subprojects in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Association [paras. 4.2 and 4.7(a)];
(e)   carry out national level training activities (including a limited number of
study tours and overseas training programs) outlined in paras. 2.35-2.36 in
accordance with an action plan acceptable to IDA [para. 4.7(b)];
(f)   coordinate and ensure project implementation oversight at the provincial,
prefectural and county levels [para. 4.7(c)];
(g)   prepare a mid-term review report by June 30, 1997, in a format acceptable
to the Association [para. 4.7(e)]; and
(h)   ensure that annual reports on Project Accounts and Special Account,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, will be
submitted to the Association within six months of the end of each
Government fiscal year, and that the audit will contain a separate opinion
regarding the SOEs (para. 4.16).
6.2         During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Education
Implementation Arrangements with the Participating Provinces would require each province
to:



- 33 -
(a)   carry out its Education Program in accordance with annual action plans (to
be provided to the Association by October 1 of each year during project
implementation), acceptable to the Association (para. 4.2);
(b)   (i) carry out action plans for nonproject supported counties which are
acceptable to the Borrower and IDA and are designed to ensure that the
educational achievements in these counties will not deteriorate during the
implementation of the project, (ii) monitor education achievements in
nonproject-supported counties on the basis of indicators acceptable to the
Association, and (iii) prepare and furnish to the Borrower for forwarding to
IDA mid-term and final report on such monitoring (para. 4.4);
(c)   prepare by October 1 of each year and furnish to IAG, for approval,
proposed research programs for inclusion in its Innovation Program during
the following year (para. 4.5); and
(d)   monitor and evaluate provincial action plan implementation at the county
level in a manner acceptable to the Association [para. 4.6(d)].
B. CONDMTIONS OF EFFECTrIVENESS
6.3         As special conditions of effectiveness, the Borrower will:
(a)   establish the Minority Education Training Center under SEdC's National
Academy of Education Administration with terms of reference and staffing
acceptable to the Association (para. 2.37);
(b)   provide  the  Association  with  Education  Program  Implementation
Agreements, acceptable to the Association, entered into between the
Government and at least five participating provinces (para. 4.2); and
(c)   establish an Innovations Assessment Group with terms of reference, staffing
and budget acceptable to the Association (para. 4.9).
C. RECOMMENDATION
6.4         On the basis of the preceding, the proposed project would constitute a
suitable basis for a Credit of SDR 69.2 million ($100.0 million equivalent), on standard
IDA terms with 35 years' maturity to the People's Republic of China.



- 34 -



ANNEXES






KEY BENCEMARK PROVINCLAL INDICATORS - PRIMARY EDUCATION
(1992)
Eleenwnary    Elemntary
Girls'         First        school        school
Rural           Enroltnent        enrotimeit       grade       completion      tudent/
Illiteracy  per capita            rate              rate       repetition      rate of       teacher
Province                          Population                  rate     income m             (primary)        (primarY)        rate        15 yr. olda     ratio
PV     PC    PVM   PCM          PV      PC    PV   PC          PV         PC      PV     PC      PV     PC     PV      PC    PV    PC
Guangxi                43,800  6,184  17,040  5,749   10.6%  12.5%    731  413  5,950,016    996,884 90.5%  87.3%  13.5%  19.0%  82.5%  77.1%   21.5  19.9
Jiangxi                39,131  10,248     200     28   16.0%  18.0%    702  527  4,190,795   1,272,395 90.0%  80.2%  16.6%  17.5%  93.0%  80.8%   18.7  25.4
InnerMongotia          21,786  5,027   4,332  1,651    15.0%  19.3%    719  549  2,362,998    580,440 88.0%  86.2%  10.3%  12.9%  87.0%  83.0%   15.2  14.6
Ningxia                 4,823  2,124   1,628  1,085   12.8%  15.6%    619  255    652,064    339,201  91.1%  75.2%  37.0%  59.7%  75.0%  63.0%   23.4  25.7                  L
Sichuan               109,429 14,688   4,863  1,259   15.0%  13.5%    643  412  8,785,400  1,255,251  87.0%  85.0%  12.0%  13.4%  82.0%  80.4%   20.7  22.2
Xinjiang               15,806  3,093   9,904  2,696    6.0%   8.0%    740  497  1,980,688    418,095 92.0%  88.8%  1.0%  19.6%  93.6%  82.2%   20.5  20.1
PV  = tot proviDce
PC = project countiea
PVM = provincial minority population
PCM = project coufies minority population



KEY BENCHMARK PROVINCIAL INDICATORS - LOWER SECONDARY
(1992)
Transition          Girls'          Completion     Completion rate
rate into      enrollment         rate of lower       of girls
Province                  Enrollment          secondary            rate           secondary        from lower          Student/teacher
(secondary)           school          (yrim)               school     secondary school            ratio
PV        PC        PV       PC       PV       PC        PV       PC       PV       PC          PV       PC
Guangxi              1,382,044   221,116   52.0%    45.2%    41.5%    37.5%    85.0%    80.4%    39.5%    34.5%         17.1    16.3
Jiangxi              1,591,397   371,173   70.3%    58.8%    65.1%    54.1%    96.5%    81.8%    87.2%    74.8%         17.2    19.0
Inner Mongolia        932,794   211,873   79.0%    75.8%    46.0%    43.7%    90.0%    89.5%    45.0%    44.0%          13.8    13.8
Ningxia               229,594    80,780   72.0%    53.0%    40.0%    30.0%    96.5%    85.0%    35.0%    27.0%          17.6    18.4
Sichuan             3,054,900   388,704   71.0%    61.2%    65.0%    56.3%    90.9%    81.1%    85.0%    73.2%          15.0    15.8
Xinjiang              570,188    89,459   77.7%    55.0%    48.0%    50.0%    96.1%    85.5%    51.0%    52.0%          12.5    12.2
PV = province
PC = project counties



- 37 -                        ANNEX 2
Table 1: PROVINCIAL COUNTERPART FUNDING La AS A
PROPORTION OF PROVINCIAL EDUCATION BUDGETS
(unit = Y 1,000)
Annual
counterpart
Counterpart                 funding as
Counterpart    funding-annual  Educational      % of
funding total    avg/5 years   budget 1992   1992 budgets
Xinjiang            192,597         38,519         245,057       15.7%
Ningxia              43,500          8,700          97,984       8.8%
Inner Mongolia      152,570         30,514         186,968       16.3%
Sichuan             184,270         36,854         412,800       8.9%
Jiangxi             210,984         42,197       1,516,090       2.8%
Guangxi             204,020         40,804         362,850      11.2%
Tioal            835.371                      2.821.749
Average                                                      10.6%
La   Figures provided to the Appraisal Mission in April 1994.
Table 2: SOURCES OF COUNTERPART FUNDING (1992)
National  Provincial  County  Education   Work study   Social
level     level     level   surtax La   income La  donations
Xinjiang    8.3%       16.2%     14.5%     36.3%       15.1%      9.6%
Ningxia     15.0%      35.0%     25.0%     15.0%       5.0%       5.0%
Inner
Mongolia   6.6%       31.1%     22.9%     29.5%        3.6%       6.6%
Sichuan     5.4%      21.8%     43.4%      21.7%       5.4%       2.3%
Jiangxi     4.7%       9.5%      23.7%     29.9%       14.8%      17.3%
Guangxi     0.5%      20.0%      28.9%     31.9%       9.4%       1.8%
Average     6.8%      22.3%      26.5%     27.4%       8.9%       7.1%
La The Education surtax is currently (4/94) being collected at a rate of 1.5% on rural
income (in families above the national poverty threshold of Y 320 per capita cash
income) and 2.0% of urban incomes and enterprise. It is expected to be increased in
the near future.
lk Work-study income comes from school-based production and a proportion is kept at
the school and a further proportion (different in different provinces) is collected at the
country level for allocation to county poor schools.



- 38 -                         ANNEX 3
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
(IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS)
1.          Introduction.  The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) is a separate
document developed by the borrower with assistance from the Association, which describes
in detail the responsibilities of the borrower in implementing and the Association in
supervising the project. The PIP includes detailed project targets and implementation
indicators, national and provincial project and annual action plans, details of the technical
assistance delivery system, terms of reference of the project's two advisory panels, and a
detailed description of specific activities in the project components which are to be
supported by the project. A brief description of the PIP is given below.
2.          The Government of the People's Republic of China and its subunits, are the
implementing agencies of the Action Plan, with the State Education Commission (SEdC)
acting as the sponsoring and coordinating agency.
3.          The State Education Comnmission will be responsible for:
(a)   coordination of the implementation of the whole project to be monitored
according to indicators and targets agreed with the Association;
(b)   monitoring the implementation of the six project province implementation
plans in accordance with agreed upon Provincial Project Implementation
Plans (PIPs);
(c)   establishing the Minority Education Training Center (METC) under the
auspices of SEdC's National Academy of Education Administration
(NAEA);
(d)   carrying out the preparation and supervision of the second phase of the
projects in a manner acceptable to the Association;
(e)   carrying out national level training of provincial, county and prefectural
educational authorities;
(f)   carrying out supervision of project implementation with, annual reports
provided to the Association; and



- 39 -                         ANNEX 3
(g)   establishing  a Chinese Experts Panel (CEP) to  monitor project
implementation and advise the project provinces and an Innovation
Assessment Group (IAG) to implement the innovation program.
4.          Provincial Programs.  The provincial education commission of the
provincial governments are responsible for:
(a)  implementing the provincial programs in civil works, procurement of
instructional equipment, books, staff upgrading, project management, and
the innovations program based on the individual provincial Project
Implementation Plans (PIPs);
(b)   reimbursing SEdC for the cost of national level activities implemented by
SEdC as identified in the National Level PIP; and
(c)   ensuring that there will be no deterioration in the quality of educational
outcomes in nonproject supported poor counties during the period of project
implementation because of the financial needs of providing counterpart
funding for project support counties.
5.          I]DA Supervision. IDA will start its supervision cycle with a mission to
monitor the early implementation of the project. The first supervision mission would
review the results of the initial project management training and review progress of
research activities related to the innovations program.  The full schedule of IDA
supervision is included in Annex 6.



-40 -                            ANNEX 4
PROVINCIAL ALLOCATIONS TO NONPROJECT COUNTEES
Province                 Number of    Number of  Number of    Amount of
national and    project     nonproject    support for
provincial     counties     counties     nonproject
poor counties                              counties
Sichuan                      65            25           40       Y 335,000,000
Guangxi                      49            20           29       Y 300,310,000
Xinjiang                     27            18            9       Y 144,500,000
Inner Mongolia               60            20           40       Y 420,000,000
Jiangxi                      57            20           37       Y 326,730,000
Ningxia                       9             8            1



-41-                           ANNEX 5
SUMMARY OF PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL CRITERIA
Introduction
1.          The project has been designed to further develop the borrower's capacity to
prepare and implement projects and to move to a sector program finance approach in
IDA's future involvement in China's basic education in poor areas. IDA and SEdC have
prepared six subprojects, one for each province. Five of the six subprojects have been
fully appraised. The sixth subproject, Ningxia, has been prepared by the provincial
authorities with assistance from SEdC and the Association. IDA has done a preliminary
appraisal of the Ningxia subproject and has agreed with SEdC that it would carry out a full
appraisal according to agreed criteria found below. SEdC appraisal report will be
reviewed by the Association. In this manner, SEdC assumes greater responsibility for
project preparation and appraisal with the Bank role primarily being that of approving the
subprojects which have been appraised by SEdC before they can be included in the project.
2.          This approach will be expanded and refined for the preparation of possible
future education projects, using revised and updated project identification, coverage
selection, subproject preparation, project implementation, and monitoring instruments now
being used in the current project. This process will also allow for the utilization and
dissemination of policies and actions which come from this project's innovation program
well beyond the confines of provinces supported by this project.
Project Preparation Timetable and Agreed Conditions
3.          The project preparation steps and conditions for the Ningxia subproject are
as follows:
Preparation Timetable:
(a)         Benchmark data for Ningxia to be produced for the eight project
counties using the same survey methods developed and refined in the
first phase of the project. (Done by September 1994.)
(b)         SEdC to train the Ningxia provincial educational authorities on
project design and procedures for project preparation. (Done by
February 1994.) The Association worked with SEdC and the
Ningxia authorities to improve their subproject proposal which will
be ready by credit negotiations. (Ready by July 1994.)
(c)         SEdC, working with the Ningxia provincial authorities, and the
county level authorities, will review and revise each of the county
level action plans and financing plans to take into considerations



- 42 -                          ANNEX 5
recommendations made during the appraisal mission visit, and the
full six-province workshop held during the appraisal mission. The
province will oversee the production of final county level training
plans, cost tables and monitoring indicators which will be combined
into a provincial subproject proposal. These county level plans and
the final provincial level subproject proposal will conform to the
basic project design and budgetary agreements for both phase one
and two reached at the end of the appraisal mission. (Ready by
August 1994.)
Appraisal Criteria:
(a)   Selection of Ningxia and its counties for participation in the project has
already been made, using the same selection criteria as applied under the
first phase. (See Sections VI and VII of the Project Implementation Plan for
selection criteria.) The borrower shall not change the province and counties
to be included in the project without explicit concurrence of the Association.
(b)   The Ningxia feasibility plan to be prepared with plans and project costs for
each county; provincial and county commitments and assurances on the
availability of counterpart funds.
(c)   In August-September 1994, SEdC will visit Ningxia and the two Ningxia
pilot counties to review the subproject proposal. SEdC will ensure that the
Ningxia proposal conforms to the project's general and detailed design and
preparation process agreed to earlier, is consistent with the budget and
general spending categories agreed at the time of the appraisal of the first
phase, and that the provincial and county authorities have given adequate
assurances of sufficient counterpart funding. (To be done by September
1994.)
(d)   SEdC to appraise the proposed financial plan and propose appropriate
assurances to be sought. (To be done September 1994.)
(e)   The Association will review and approve the results of SEdC/Ningxia
preparation and appraisal process in order that the Ningxia subproject
program will be included in the project. This will take place at a time
mutually agreeable to the Association and SEdC, but is expected to take
place in September 1994.
(f)   After they have completed the preparation and appraisal of the Ningxia
subproject, SEdC will provide the Association with an appraisal report
based on the appraisal report prepared for the first phase of the project.
This will be the basis of IDA's review and approval of the inclusion of
Ningxia into the current project.



- 43 -                          ANNEX 6
SUPERVISION BY IDA
IDA will start its supervision cycle with a mission to monitor the early
implementation of the project. The first supervision mission would review the results of
the initial project management training and review progress of research activities related
to the innovations program. The following table gives a detailed schedule for IDA
supervision during the implementation of the project.
IDA SUPERVISION MISSION INPuT TO KEY AcTIviTIEs
Approximate                                Expected skill            Staff-weks
date       Activity                      requirements                Input
9/94         Supervision Mission           General Educator          2 weeks
(Project Launch)             Teacher Training          2 weeks
Review Procurement Docs      Information Systems       2 weeks
Review 1995 Action Plans     Procurement Specialist    2 weeks
3/95         Supervision Mission           General Educator          2 weeks
Review implementation        Teacher Training          1 week
Review progress of Innova-   Procurement Specialist    1 week
tion Program studies         Technical Assistance      2 weeks
9/95         Supervision Mission           General Educator          3 weeks
Review 1996 Action Plan
5/96         Supervision Mission           General Educator          3 weeks
11/97        Supervision Mission           General Educator          3 weeks
Review 1997 Action Plan
9/97         Mid-Term Review               General Educator          3 weeks
Each province will present   Teacher Training          3 weeks
progress reports on:         Information Specialist    2 weeks
Action Plans                 Technical Assistance      2 weeks
Construction
Equipment
Training of Teachers
MIS
Innovation Program
Review with MOF/SEdC disbursement
to each province
Review 1998 Action Plan



- 44 -                          ANNEX 6
Approximate                                Expected skill            Staff-weeks
date       Activity                       requirements               Input
1/98         Superision Mission            General Educator          2 weeks
9/98         Supenision Mission            General Educator          3 weeks
Review 1999 Action Plan
3/99         Supervision Mission           General Educator          2 weeks
9/99         SuW3iasion Mission            General Educator          2 weeks
Review Provincial Completion
Reports
42 weeks



- 45 -                                         ANNEX7
PROJECT INDICATORS FOR PROJECT-SUPPORTED
COUNTIES BY PROVINCE
GUANGX3 PROVINCE
1993              1996              1998              2000
Number       %    Number        %  Number         %   Number       %
Elemetaury Schools
1 Number and percentage of dangerous
teaching and dormitory areas in
square meters                            120,000    3.2   104,000       2.8  90,000       2.3   80,000      2.0
2. Number and percentage of schools
achieving appropriate SEdC
equipment atandarda                          458    10.0      1,453    45.0   2,592      80.0    3,080    95.0
3  Net enrollment rate of girls at first               88.0               90.0              92.0              94.5
grade
4. Percentage repetition of first grade                18.0                16.0             14.0              12.0
5  Net completion ratio of students from               87.0               90.0              92.0              94.0
grades one and two of project primary
schools /a
6. Net completion ratio of girls from                  84.0               87.0              88.0              92.0
grades one and two of project primary
schools /b
7. Net comnpletion rate of primary school              78.0               80.0              82.0              85.0
of 15 year olds
8. Transition rate into lower middle
schools                                             48.0               54.0              58.0              65.0
9. Transition rate of girls/minorities
into lower middle schools                           34.0               42.0              50.0              60.0
10. Student teacher ratio                              20:1               21.1              22:1              23:1
11. Number and percentage o
qualified teachers                        27,290    82.0    28,970     85.0  32,000      86.0   38,869    90.0
12. Number and percentage of
teachers who receive continuing
education/c                                  300     1.0        924      2.6   1,342      3.7    1,870      4.0
13. Number and percentageofteachers              25    14.0        91     35.0      119    41.0       145    48.0
who remeived bilingual training
14. Number and percentage of principals         250     4.0      1,117     17.0   1,733     27.0    2,070    32.0
who receive training
15. Number of students receiving free        13,710             13,710           13,710            13,710
textbooks
16. Number of girls receiving free            8,900             8,900             8,900             8,900
textbooks



- 46 -                                        ANNEX 7
1993              1996             1998              200
Number      %    Number         %  Number        %   Number       %
L    Midie Schod
1. Numnberandpercentageofdangerous          58,000    3.8    51,000       2.8  45,000       2.3   40,000     2.0
teaching nd dormitory areas in
square meters                            58,000    3.8    51,000       2.8  45,000       2.3   40,000     2.0
2. Number and percentage of schools
achieving appropriate SEdC
equipment sandards                           135   20.0       230    50.0       320    63.0       375    80.0
3. Percentage of SEdC standard                        40.0                55.0             75.0             85.0
experiments achieved
4. Net enrollment rate of tudents in                  48.0               54.0              59.0             65.0
first year of lower middle schools
5. Net enrollment rate of girls in                    40.0               45.0              50.0             55.0
first year of lower middle school
6. Number and percentage of                  6,444    55.0      8,587    60.0  10,587    65.0   13,000    70.0
qualified teachers
7. Nunmber and percentage of teacher           500    4.3       2,365     16.1   3,609     22.1    4,761    25.6
who receive continuing education /d
8. Number and percentage of                     60    6.0        410    94.4       700    75.4       865    92.4
headteachers receiving
training
-/ Net completion rote is defined as the nuniber of pupils who conplete two full grades of schooling compared to the nunmber of
children in the appropriate age group. This sttistic is collected at the end of the grsde two.
lb Net comnpletion mte ir defined as the numnber of girls who complete two full grades of schooling compared to the number of children
in the appropriate age group. This satistic is collected at the end of the grade two.
/c This should exclude diploma trainees.
/d This should exclude diploma trainees.



- 47 -                         ANNEX 8
SELECTION CRITERIA FOR PROVINCES
1.          Criteria for Selection of Provinces.  During preparation, the Association
and SEdC discussed criteria for the selection of potential provinces to be included in the
project. SEdC presented the mission with a list of indicators and the relative weights that
would be assigned to each of them in comparing relevant data for the eight different
provinces and autonomous regions which were on the list as potential candidates (Sichuan,
Qinghai, Xinjiang, Gansu, Ningxia, Inner Mongolia, Guangxi and Jiangxi).
2.          After the discussion with the mission, SEdC reworked the criteria by
(a) adding new categories (percentage female enrollment, and relative strength of provincial
education commission management and performance in previous Association projects); (b)
eliminating other criteria (income level per farmer); (c) strengthening the weight given
some criteria (number of poor provinces, and size of minority population), while (d)
weakening others (achievement rate of primary students, statistics which are seen by SEdC
to be highly unreliable, and relative population levels).
Original Criteria and Weights   Revised Criteria and Weights
Population - 10%               Population- 15 %
Number of Poor Counties - 20%   Number of Poor Counties- 15%
Rate of Dangerous Builds - 10%   Rate of Dangerous Builds. - 10%
Normal School Reform  - 5%     Normal School Reform  - 5%
Income of Farmers - 15%        Income of Farmers (eliminated)
Qualifications of Teachers - 15%   Qualifications of teachers - 15%
Achievement Rate (Prim.) - 10%   Achievement Rate (Prim) - 15%
Minority Population - 15%      Minority Population - 10%
Management and Performance - 10%
Enrollment of Girls - 5%
3.          Preliminary Selection of Project Provinces. Using the weighted criteria
suggested above, the mission and SEdC derived the following rank order of the priority



- 48 -                        AN WX 8
projects provinces and/or autonomous regions to be considered for the proposed project
(see Annex 2 for details):
Sichuan         19.20
Guangxi         17.29
Xinjiang        13.28
Jiangxi         11.92
Inner Mongolia   10.79
Gansu           10.78
Ningxia          9.26
Qinghai          7.48
4.          During various discussion, SEdC made the following points relating to the
issue of the number of provinces in the project:
(a)   The SPC had tentatively cleared SEdC to apply for a $100 million credit but
SEdC wanted to go back to the SPC and ask for $120 million based on
work in seven provinces;
(b)   Gansu had already been the recipient of a provincially focussed Bank credit
and therefore, as with the other six provinces covered in the Education
Development in Poor Provinces, should not be eligible for consideration in
this project;
(c)   whereas the educational needs of Ningxia and Qinghai provinces were great
and the poverty level high, their absorbative capacities were strictly limited
(approximately $5 million in project funds for each) and Qinghai's
management capability was judged to be weak;
(d)   Jiangxi, although not having many minorities, has a large number of poor
counties;
(e)   Sichuan, Inner Mongolia and Jiangxi have shown strong interest in
participating in the proposed project.



- 49 -                        ANNEX 8
SELECTION CRITERA FOR CouNTIES
Population and Minority
Population of Project Counties (PCs)                             16.6%
Concentration % of Minority Population in PCs                    11.1%
Poverty Indicators
Income per Person (rural)                                         5.6%
Public Expenditure for Education/Provincial
Expenditures                                                      5.6%
% of dangerous buildings                                          5.6%
% of equipment on standard list available in county               5.6%
Books/pupil at primary level                                      5.6%
Teaching and Management Needs
% of repetition (1st grade                                        4.4%
% of enrollment (primary)                                         4.4%
% of girls enrollment (primary)                                   4.4%
% transition rate from primary to secondary school                4.4%
% of qualified teachers                                           4.4%
Other Considerations
unit cost of school buildings                                     5.6%
level of subsidy from central government                         11.1%
past performance and efficiency                                   5.6%
Note: Where possible, national data were used in the calculations. Otherwise data used
were provided by the provinces and regions.



- 50 -                         ANNEX 9
CIUNESE EXPERTS PANEL TOR
1.          Background and Aims. The Chinese State Education Commission (SEdC),
working with the Association, is supporting the "Basic Education in Poor and Minority
Areas Project" which aims to strengthen basic education in approximately 111 counties in
Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Xinjiang, Guangxi, Sichuan and Jiangxi provinces/autonomous
regions. This project, which focuses on counties with high minority populations, aims to
increase the percentage of students who achieve compulsory nine year education by the
year 2000. In order to assist implementing this project, SEdC will establish advisory
panels one of which will be a Chinese Expert Panel (CEP) to provide ongoing guidance
and advice to SEdC and the provinces on project implementation and policy issues related
to the project.
2.          Responsibilities for the Panel. The Chinese Expert Panel will:
(a)   become familiar with project content and the national and six provincial-
level Project Implementation Plans (PIP);
(b)   make regular site visits to review implementation progress and report visit
findings to provincial education commissions (PECs), SEdC or the
Association;
(c)   hold regular panel meetings to review progress in project implementation,
receive reports from PECs and other sources, and make recommendations
on the annual action plans which are included in the PIPs;
(d)   monitor educational indicators in nonproject-supported counties in project-
supported provinces to ensure that educational achievements do not
deteriorate during the implementation of the project, and to report findings
and, if necessary, recommendations to SEdC and the Association in order
to deal with any observed shortcomings;
(e)   advise SEdC and project PECs on the following implementation fields:
(i)  project management and efficiency;
(ii)  civil works;
(iii)  provision, procurement and utilization of equipment and furniture of
primary and secondary schools;



-51-                           ANEX9
(iv)   bilingual and girls' education; and
(v)  technical assistance (TA) implementation, including foreign and
domestic staff training, expert service, various workshops and
overseas study tours.
3.          Qualification of Panel Members. The Panel will be composed of four
members including the chairman and vice chairman from the following categories:
(a)   an academic person with strong teaching and research experience in basic
education and administration, and familiarity with minority education;
(b)   an academic person from a normal teacher training institution experienced
in teacher training and familiar with minority education;
(c)   a civil works expert familiar with construction criteria and building
maintenance of primary and secondary school;
(d)   an administrator from  a provincial education commission, expert in
education finance and planning.
4.          Candidates with experience in IDA projects will have priority in selection.
The panel chairman and vice chairman will be nominated by SEdC and approved by the
Association. If necessary, the Panel may appoint consultants to assist it in its work.
Priority will be given to consultants with previous World Bank Group experience, and
appointments will be made by the Panel chairman according to World Bank guidelines.
The list of consultants will be forwarded to IDA and SEdC.
5.          Panel Activities. The Panel will:
(a)   Meet annually to discuss and review project implementation. Project officers
from SEdC and PECs will attend the meeting.
(b)   Make site visits to project counties to review implementation progress.
(c)   In line with Project Implementation Plans (PIPs) and other specific issues
which may arise from time to time, appoint consultants and arrange for
them to visit project counties to advise on the issues in project
implementation.
(d)   With the support of a secretariat, review  and advise on project
implementation.
6.          Panel Work Plan. Panel members should allow for 4 full weeks of working
time every year. This would include one annual one-week meeting, an annual 2-3 week



- 52 -                          ANNEX 9
site visit to project counties, and 1-2 weeks of desk work on reviewing project
implementation.
7.          Secretariat. To support daily work of the Panel a secretariat will be
established, whose qualification, work place and duty will be determined by the Panel
chairman, and the State Education Commission. The secretariat should comprise at least
2 full time staff and 2-3 part time staff during the period of its operation. The executive
officer of the secretariat should be proficient in English, and with knowledge of basic
education, minority education and teacher training. Candidates with previous World Bank
project experience will have priority in selection.
8.          The staff of secretariat should be familiar with office procedures and
technology such as computers, photocopy machines, faxes, etc. They should know some
English and have experiences in the education field. The staff assistants will produce and
maintain the project files and provide with the CEP service of documents.
9.          The secretariat will:
(a)   arrange  trip  transportation,  hotel  reservations,  panel  itinerary,
communications with local hosts for site visits;
(b)   prepare meeting documents for CEP;
(c)   communicate often with the State Education Commission, provincial
education authorities and maintain effective communication channels among
CEP members;
(d)   collect information for CEP; and
(e)   provide CEP with project implementation data and other assistance in terms
of monitoring and processing review indicators.
10.         Outcomes of Panel Work. The panel will:
(a)   submit an annual report on the Panel's work (including the PIP action plan
for next year) to SEdC, PECs and the Bank;
(b)   submit a report on the Panel's annual meeting to SEdC, PECs, and the
Bank;
(c)   submit annual reports on site visits and consulting service to SEdC, PECs,
and the Bank; and
(d)   provide consulting service for and answer questions from project counties.



- 53-                        ANN-X9
Expense Budget                                         Panel Budget (Y)
Daily expenses:                                           100,000
Transportation:                                           140,000
Communication:                                            100,000
Meeting:                                                  200,000
Reference:                                                50,000
Printing:                                                 50,000
Total:                                                    640,000
Secretariat Budget
staff stipend:                                              7,500
equipment:                                                 20,000
communication:                                              5,000
travel:                                                    15,000
document prep:                                              2,500
meeting:                                                   20,000
Total:                                                     70,000
Total Budget                                           710,
($81,600)



- 54 -                        ANNEX 10
OPERATING CRITERIA FOR INNOVATION PROGRAM
Purpos
1.          The innovation program will provide resources to facilitate research and
experimentation to (a) improve education delivery to poor and minority communities; and,
(b) help schools adapt to rapidly changing social and economic conditions. The program
will thus contribute to China's effort to achieve universal basic education and to
institutional development objectives of this project.
Criteria
2.          Eliible Institutions.  Proposals for innovations activities may be put
forward by schools, provincial and county education bureaus.
3.          Elgiible Topic Areas. Proposals will be solicited for specific activities
under the following 10 general topic areas: improving the utilization of school facilities,
teachers, equipment and books; female education; making education more attractive and
relevant to local community needs; reducing repetition and dropout; improving bilingual
education; developing educational assessment capacity; improving access and quality of
education in minority, rural, and multigrade schools; and improving school level financing.
4.          Eligible Expenditures.  Consultant services, training, and materials
(including teaching and learning materials) will be eligible for reimbursement.
Process
5.          The program will be coordinated by a national level Innovations Assessment
Group (IAG) responsible to SEdC's Department of Finance, but largely administered and
implemented at the provincial level.
6.          The National Level Innovations Assessment Group (IAG). A national
level Innovations Assessment Group (IAG), supported by a project secretariat, will be
established by SEdC. The IAG will determine priority areas of research; submit requests
for proposals; provide guidance on research design and methods; evaluate proposals and
select activities for funding; supervise and evaluate progress of those activities; and
conduct associated training and dissemination seminars. International technical assistance
will provide the innovations group with advice on fund management, research and
experimentation design, subproject monitoring, and dissemination.



- 55 -                         ANNEX 10
7.          Selection of Activities. Proposals will be selected for funding through a
review of applications, field visits of IAG members to research sites, subsequent discussion
and secret vote. A majority vote will be deemed sufficient for selection to applicants with
suggestions for revision. The following guidelines will be used in selecting proposals for
funding.
(a)   the proposal must be consistent with the overall objectives of the project to
improve educational delivery in poor and minority areas and to build
institutional capacity;
(b)   the proposed activity should demonstrate innovativeness in approach and/or
context; that is, it should demonstrate potential to add to existing
knowledge;
(c)   the proposal should contribute to 2-3 priority areas of research defined by
the IAG (to be reviewed annually by the IAG in consultation with provincial
and county level educators), but may fall within any of the ten general topic
areas;
(d)   proposals should have wider applicability within poor and minority areas;the
proposing institution must be able to provide the necessary manpower,
facilities and counterpart resources to carry out the activity successfully;
(e)   activities should be monitorable;
'f)   unnecessary overlaps between activities should be avoided, and a reasonable
balance among provinces and regions should be sought.
8.          By December 31 of each year of the project, the IAG will submit to the
Association for its review and approval a list of new proposed activities. The Association
will provide comments by March 1 of the following year. If no reply is received by that
time, the list will be considered approved. The following information will be provided to
the Association for each proposed activity: its title; the name and location of each
proposed activity; its title; the name and location of each institution proposing it; a brief
summary and description' the eligible topic area which it covers; a justification in terms
of its innovative nature; its likely duration; expected results and proposed measures of
outcome; and a summary of costs to be covered by the project and by the host institution.
9.          Supervision and reporting. During the implementation of the program, the
IAG will monitor the progress of each activity by means of periodic reports sent by the
participating institutions and agencies, and by field inspections by IAG members as deemed
necessary or appropriate. The annual reports will be summarized into a report of the
program as a whole and sent annually to the Association along with the progress report for
the Project as a whole. Members of supervision missions sent by the Association to review
the project will be permitted to visit activity sites at their discretion.



-56-                          ANNEXIQ
10.         At the conclusion of each activity, an appraisal of results will be made by
the IAG and a summary sent to the Association. This will include confirmation of timely
implementation, that the budget was spent according to the proposal, and the degree to
which objectives were achieved according to expected and actual outcomes of the activity.
The IAG will report especially good results to SEdC and arrange seminars to disseminate
results nationally. The Association will review and comment on these through the overall
reporting process established for the project.
Disbursement
11.         Disbursement of project funds for the innovation program  will be
100 percent against expenditures for consultant services, training and 75 percent for
equipment and materials. Expenditures will be documented according to the Bank Group's
guidelines form withdrawal of proceeds. The Innovation Program will not fund civil
works and the allowable maximum percentage of a grant which can be used for equipment
will be 40 percent. Reimbursement for expenditures for consultant services and training
will be made on the basis of statements of expenditure, and may include (but need not be
limited to) such things as fees, travel, subsistence, meetings, printing, and expendable
materials.
Composition of the IAG
12.         The IAG will consist of staff from appropriate departments of SEdC,
members of the Chinese Experts Panel, and possibly outside experts in policy research and
innovations management from other projects. Staff overlap between the CEP and the IAG
will allow for coordination of implementation of project activities.



- 57 -                        ANNEX 11
LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA                        Disbursement      _      Project
fiscal year/             Semestral    Cumulative    cumulative    Profile,La
semester                 -------- ($ million) --------  (%)         (%)
1995
2nd                      8.9            8.9             9            3
1996
1st                     14.4           23.3           23            14
2nd                     14.4           37.7            34           38
1997
1st                     18.5           56.2           56            50
2nd                     18.5           74.7            75           66
1998
1st                     10.0           84.7           85            70
2nd                      5.6           90.3            90           78
1999
1st                      5.0           95.3           95            86
2nd                      3.7           99.0            99           86
2000
1st                      1.0          100.0          100            94
La Disbursement profile-Bank standard disbursement profile for China.
Completion Date: December 31, 1999
Closing Date:    December 31, 2000



IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
(Percent of Total Expenditure by end of CY)
1995         1996          1997          1998         1999          2000
Institutional Component
20%         50%            80%           100%
Facilities Upgrading             _       I _   _     I
6%         58%            78%            97%          99Z        100%
Instructional Equipment              J_ I          _    _ _ __ _  ______               _
6%         50%            75Z            90%          95%        100%
Library  Books                   _    J _      _  J_               ____  ___    _     __            _
15%         55%            76%            96%          98%        100%
Staff Upgrading
Management Component
25%         50%            75%          100%
National Mgmt. Dev.             _        _     _                      _
5%         35Z            50%          75%          90%          100%
Provincial Mgmt. Dev             _ J_ III_     _ J_ I__
10%         35%            65%          100%
Teacher Inform. System
Quality Enhancement
Component
10%         35%            75%          100%
Innovation Programs                       _                     J_J _   _   _
25%         50%            75%          100%
National Seminars                                                             J _   _   _
10%         65%            80%           90%          95Z          100%
Minority Training Cntr.                                                                                              > _   _   _   _   _ _



- 59 -                        ANNEX 13
DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Project Implementation Plans (PIPs) for both the Central Component and the six
participating provinces (June 1994)
2.    Proposed Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas Project:  Identification
Mission, October 1993-Aide Memoire
3.    Proposed Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas Project:  Preappraisal
Mission, January 1994-Aide Memoire
4.    Proposed Basic Education in Poor and Minority Areas Project: Appraisal Mission,
April 1994-Aide Memoire
5.    Provincial Project Proposals for Xinjiang, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Jiangxi,
Guangxi, and Sichuan Provinces (September 1993, January 1994, March 1994,
June 1994)
6.    Normal School proposals from Sichuan and Jiangxi Provinces (March and June
1994)
7.    Proposal from the Minority Education Training Center (METC) June 1994
8.    Sources of local counterpart funding for 6 participating provinces






RUSSIAN  FEDERATION
KAZAKHSTAN
MONGOLIA
?    V    w   z                                                                     wJ-                          \,je  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                 ~          ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(DCh-wgh-n r   
- _KYRGYZ REP8I Ult                                                                                                                                                  ;  >r  
U Z 8 E K I S T    >~~~~~~~~~~ J   ~ ~ ~ <                           ;>       >                      XhenSnG tX    p                       5   + ~~~~~~~~~~~~JAPAN
_ _| ,0  S-\ > ,:, ,QL, }                                      jup,
\ | fSS~~~UANG   e  J D.R
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
t _                                   \  ~~~~~~~~~~~)                                          Si ~~~~~~~tK  <0EIJIN i*g,j   .                 t  1
-~~~  ~ ~ ~           Sh,i~~~~~~~ozh~~~~~aog ~~~REP. OF
denom=tion shown-                      (~ n    <                                ?       4          ,/  ,(        S 9nilsz^u}ng>/               FKOREA-
onthi.mo   do   -t                                      \.  
iT_hVyW.'l'd  =kp'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;,..,~~~~~~~~~yT,
-y j.dg~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19900j                                                                         ,
imply. on the port of               )                                '     t        --~~~~~)_  tJ   SOr7-  If)  9-- 
ony judgment on the leool                                     Xi O !        \ irtR           '         g'    /   w Jm}n      = . >                    , -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"/.~  hen,ho
or oy enorsmerw             >-n .-                                                 _{    -X cAf (__                                   '_r9h,              Eel.ooCr
X./,^ ... , R ,_ wu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SHANGHAI
-,,NEPAL              LW}t                                                K         ~                           > 
CHINA                                                                                                                                                                        <;/ PACIFIC
CHINA  9    <   7_  t  \1  Chor.gAho S  ' -,KX     Es7                      OCEAN
BASIC EDUCATION IN POOR AND                                                                ')>   \    t-o0_C.45-  \                    f '
MINORITY AREAS PROJECT                                                                 G W 7rwng                                                     -  U:<N,  
|      |]  PROJEC>T PROVINCES (PHASE Ij                                                                                                          TAIunmWgrs  ?  /    8/   < ?  t f  << '   SANGHA
PROJECT PROVINCES IRt-ASE  l r
@      PRVNCE CAPITALS                                    <>'                        4                      t         Sob~   
61     NATiONAl CAPTAL                                    Z                                                        *      H Ci,O
P  ROviNCE 8OUNDAHIES  VITNM 2
NINTERATIONAL 8OUNDAIUES 
~ 0   2m                                                                                             ,o   LAO PEOPLE'S % - ~ -SFtHeZ4 CIi,no h lu PHILIPPINE5 ' SP
CHINS  9A1                                                 DEMAREP                                          N                                                           OINANSeO
PR     JC_R    V N E   -A E   l1_                                                                                                                                                      z       '0



