Report No. PID6534
Project Name             Bangladesh-Judicial and Legal Capacity Building...
Project
Region                   South Asia
Sector                   Private Sector
Project ID               BDPE44810
Implementing Agencies    Ministry of Law and Justice
Registrar's Office, Supreme
Court
Dhaka, Bangladesh                Dhaka, Bangladesh
Contact:                 Mr. M. Aminullah                 Mr. M. Abdul Jalil
Secretary                        Registrar.
Ministry of Law and Justice      Supreme Court of Bangladesh
880-2 -860560 & 864693           880-2- 9561952 & 9562758
Date Prepared            February 18, 1997
Projected Board Date     December 1998
1. Project Objectives
The goals of the project are to enhance efficiency of the judicial and legal
system through (a) improvement of the legal framework; (b) streamlining the
system of courts and strengthening judicial capacity; and (c) providing
improved access to justice, all of which are critical factors to society in
general and a well functioning private sector in particular. The proposed
project will be carried out as part of GOB's strategy to improve governance,
especially in ways that will contribute to enhancing the quality of the legal,
regulatory and institutional framework for private sector development in the
country; and will support measures to overcome the various systemic and
institutional constraints. It will thus have strong institutional development
impact in establishing a sustainable mechanism for enhancing rule of law and
thus improving overall governance. More specifically the project will lead to
: (i) a more efficient and transparent judicial system acting as a catalyst
for ensuring rule of law and cost effective dispensation of justice for all
segments of the society including the low-income group, many of whom are
women; (ii) having a reformed court system with modern commercial laws and
dispute resolution mechanism being in place thus improving the enabling
environment for private sector led growth strategy; (iii) ensuring the
integrity of the financial sector which is seriously undermined by a deficient
legal framework, faulty recovery processes, and absence of enforcement; (iv)
improve gender sensitivity through the improved court process.
2. Project Description
The project will be divided into two main parts: legal and regulatory capacity
building; and judicial capacity building. Legal and regulatory capacity
building will include revision and /or reform of economic laws and related
rules and regulation; preparation and promulgation of a new commercial
arbitration law and rules and establishment of a center for settlement of
commercial and investment disputes and an office of the Ombudsman;
identification and removal of substantive and procedural bottlenecks in such



agencies as the Board of Investment, the Securities and Exchange Commission,
the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies and the Privatization Board;
strengthening of the Law Commission's capacity to recommend and prepare
proposals for law reform; Strengthening of the Ministry of Law (MOL)'s
capacity to prepare and/or draft legislation; and carrying out of reforms
dictated by market needs. Judicial capacity building part of the project will
include, examination and improvement of court organization; improved
accountability of judges and court officials; introduction of improved
budgetary arrangements for the judiciary; development and implementation for
subordinate court judges; strengthening of superior courts' capacity;
improvement of caseload and case flow management; improved Court and other
infrastructure; and improved access to justice by way of identification and
removal of impediments to the public's access to justice.
Though the project is focused on developing institutional capacity and
improving enabling environment for private sector led development strategy, it
also, specifically, addresses the issue of gender sensitivity, and legal aid
for the poor. Besides an important aspect of institutional development is
introduction of proper management information system (MIS), automation of the
court and legal system through computerization, and implementation of a modern
case management reform. These in turn will help enhance transperancy and also
provide better systems and better services.    Though this project does not
directly address the issue of criminal justice, but improving the court
administration, improved legal education and judges training, automation and
the other outputs of the project will definitely have a very positive impact
on it too. This in turn should help in improving the law and order situation.
The main sector issues that have been identified, and are in line with the
government's strategy, will be further firmed up as the needs assessment and
project preparation work which is currently underway comes to a conclusion.
3.   Project Implementation
(i)  Implementation Period:    The proposed project is expected to be
implemented over a six -year period (1999-2005).
(ii) Project Implementation: While the MOL and the Supreme Court will have
the overall responsibility for implementing the project and monitoring its
progress agencies, the day-to-day implementation will be carried out by a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU will be headed by a Project
Director (PD), and will be supported by Project Component Managers (PCMs)
representing each component, support staff, equipment, information
technology, vehicles and other support services needed to carry out its
responsibilities (which will be clearly defined)). It will also be provided
with resources to hire short and long term specialized consultants to
facilitate project implementation and to ensure appropriate project
monitoring. It will have the responsibility and will be provided with the
capacity to plan, budget and manage all facets of the project.
(iii) Project Coordination: While overall policy direction will be provided
by the Task Force which has already been set up by GOB, an Executive
Coordinating Unit (ECU) composed of representatives of the MOL, the Judiciary
and other appropriate agencies will also be set up to interact with the Task
Force and to over-see project implementation by the PIU.
- 2 -



4.               Project Cost and Financing
Total Cost               $60 million
IDA                      $45 million
GOB                      $15 million
5.               Environmental Aspects
EA Category .............C
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending June 19, 1998.
- 3 -



