Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21863-BD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR23.6 MILLION
(US$30.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
March 1, 2001
Finance & Private Sector
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = BDT
1 BDT = US$0.0848
US$1 = 54.1 BDT
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -    June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADAB                          Association of Development Agencies in Bangladesh
ADB                           Asian Development Bank
ADR                           Alternate Dispute Resolution
C&AG                          Comptroller and Auditor General of Bangladesh
CAS                           Country Assistance Strategy
CG                            Consultative Group
CIDA                          Canadian International Development Agcncy
CMIS                          Court Management Information System
CPC                           Civil Procedure Code
CRO                           Civil Rules Order
DANIDA                        Danish International Development Assistance
DFID                          Department for International Development
FM                            Financial Management
GOB                           Government of People's Republic of Bangladesh
IDA                           International Development Association
IDF                           Institutional Development Fund
JATI                          Judicial Administration Training Institute
LACI                          Loan Administration Change Initiative
LC                            Law Commission
LJC                           Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
LSSC                          Legal Services Support Committee
MHPW                          Ministry of Housing & Public Works
MOL                           Ministry of Law and Parlamentary Affairs
MOU                           Memorandum of Understanding
NGO                           Non-Government Organization
NLAO                          National Legal Aid Organization
PD                            Project Director
PHRD                          Policy & Human Resource Development Fund (Japan)
PMR                           Project Management Report
POC                           Project Oversight Committee
PWD                           Public Works Department
SA                            Special Account
SC                            Supreme Court of Bangladesh
SCIC                          Supreme Court Implementation Conumittee
SOE                           Statement of Expenditures
SP                            Strategy Paper
WBOD                          World Bank Office Dhaka
Vice President:         Mieko Nishiniizu
Country Director:           Fredrick Temple
Sector Director:         Marilou Uy
Task Team Leaders:    Mohsin Alikhan/Akhtar Hamid



BANGLADESH
LEGAL AND JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       3
2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
i. Project components                                                                 10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   19
S. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                           21
2. Financial                                                                          22
3. Technical                                                                          23
4. Institutional                                                                      23
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     29
2. Critical risks                                                                     30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     32



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          33
2. Other                                                                            33
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        34
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       34
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        35
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                 42
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       62
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                63
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                        64
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     65
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   79
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 80
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                               81
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          83
Annex 11: Government's Policy Letter                                                   85
Annex 12: Acceptability Criteria for National Competitive Bidding (NCB)                87
MAP(S)
Map of Bangladesh by Division and District



BANGLADESH
Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASFP
Date: March 1, 2001                                Team Leader: Mohsin Alikhan
Country Manager/Director: Frederick Thomas Temple   Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P044810                                Sector(s): BP - Privatization
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan     pq Credit     I ] Grant     1 Guarantee      [] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 30.6
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                               Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                         8.66           0.00           8.66
IDA                                                             12.29          18.30          30.59
CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY                        1.00           1.00           2.00
DANISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE                      1.27           1.10           2.37
(DANIDA)
Total:                                                         23.22           20.40          43.62
Borrower: GOB
Responsible agency: MIN. OF LAW & JUSTICE
Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs
Address: Bhaban # 4, Room # 722, Bangladesh Secretariat, Dhaka 1000
Contact Person: Secretary, Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs
Tel: (88-02) 861-0560                Fax: (88-02) 861-8557               Email:
Other Agency(ies):
Supreme Court of Bangladesh
Address: Dhaka 1000
Contact Person: Registrar of Supreme Court
Tel: (88-02) 956-2785              Fax: (88-02) 956-5058               Email:
Address: Judicial Administration Training Institute (JTI)
Contact Person: Director General, Judicial Administration Training Institute
Tel: (88-02) 956-8373              Fax: (88-02) 966-7012               Email:



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
FY         2000002     2003| .    2004   2005      :0        "2007      2008
Annual    4.70       5.20      7.50       7.80     3.40       1.60      0.40
Cumulative    4.70      9.90      17.40     25.20     28.60     30.20     30.60
Project implementation period: 6 years
Expected effectiveness date: 07/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
a:sMF"AD F- m   M"v. 1  2000
-2 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objectives are to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability of the
civil justice delivery system, and increase access to justice, particulary for women and the poor. The overall
results of the project should provide a solid foundation for protecting against corruption and improving
governance in the country.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Achievement of the overall objective by the end of the project (FY2008) will be measured by the public's
changed perception of the efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of the courts, and the availability of
other-more convenient and less costly-means of access to justice. Progress in achieving the broader
objectives will be measured by a significantly improved civil court service delivery standards. Progress by
mid-term review (MTR), i.e., mid 2004, will be measured both qualitatively and quantitatively, by
comparing benchmarks that will be developed in the first six-months of the project (see Annex I for
indicators).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21326-BD           Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/12/2000
The project supports the CAS goal of reforming institutions to support the enabling environment for private
sector-led growth and for better delivery of core public services to civil society and the poor. The need to
build and support effective institutions underpins the strategic priorities of the CAS. Reform of the justice
delivery system is central to the institutional development goal of the project.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector Issues
Diagnostic work undertaken during the course of project preparation found that the current laws of
Bangladesh are basically an appropriate foundation for economic activity (with some exceptions). The
problem really lies with the civil justice system on which those laws depend for their interpretation,
application, and enforcement. It is true that some laws in Bangladesh, like those of any other country, have
a tendency to constrain the environment for doing business, and need updating and modernization-e.g.,
those pertaining to land title registration, legal barriers to entry and exit in business, protection of
industrial/intellectual property and information technology, bank loan recovery, and regulatory agencies.
The most urgent need is to address the weaknesses of the civil justice delivery system that applies,
interprets, and enforces the laws.
The main sector issues identified by the diagnostic study of the civil justice system are discussed below.
(a) The civil justice system is subject to excessive delays. This seriously compromises its capacity to
enforce property rights and contracts and slows economic activity. On average, a civil case takes nearly
5(five) years to resolve between filing and the decision of a District Court. In some cases, the total time
from filing in the trial court to decision by the appeals court has taken from 15 to 20 years. Nor is it
unusual for a case to take nearly three years from filing to a first hearing. This has resulted in a
- 3 -



tremendous backlog of pending cases. The courts unfortunately are unable to improve their clearance rate
or cope with the caseload. The reasons are easy to identify. The legal standards for processing cases are
subject to abuse and encourage delaying tactics in court. The courts lack automation and modem case
management techniques with which to control the pace and flow of cases. The judges also spend too much
time doing administrative instead of trial work. They and their staff need to develop the skills needed for
modem case management, and thus require training. Moreover, the lack of effective alternative dispute
resolution (ADR) mechanisms means that most litigation goes to a court trial, thus adding to the judicial
logjam.
(b)    The system needs to improve the capacity to plan and manage its own affairs. The national
administration for the judicial branch is in dire need of strengthening. Elements of a basic administrative
system exist; however, these are dispersed throughout the government, indicating the need for an
administrative structure in line with principles of efficiency and effectiveness. The budgeting and planning
functions also need updating. Currently they fall under the responsibility of the Ministry of Law, Justice
and Parliamentary Affairs (MOL). Tests for judicial appointments to the District Courts are conducted by
the Public Service Commission. Promotions of District court judges are proposed by MOL and approved
by a committee of High Court judges. Promotions of non-judicial subordinate entry-level staff are the
responsibility of the District Judge. Court facilities are managed by the Public Works Department (PWD).
The highest administrative officer in the judiciary who also has some judicial functions is the Registrar of
the Supreme Court; however, he does not serve as the overall administrator of the court system. In general,
the Registrar's Office (RO) is antiquated and rudimentary in organization, has a minimal planning function,
and its spending authority used to be very low but by a government order in 2000 greater spending
authority has been delegated to it (Supreme Court). In addition, a reliable financial and statistical reporting
system does not exist. The records management system is extremely basic. At the local (District) level, each
courtroom is actually a mini-office with its own staff, so economies of scale cannot be realized. The
District Judge may or may not be suited for administrative work by temperament or training, with such
work cutting excessively into judicial time.
(c)    The system's transparency and accountability must be strengthened, particularly in the lower
courts. Impeachable judicial conduct rarely invites punishment--largely because of the practical difficulty
of invoking the relevant disciplinary mechanisms, as they are dilatory, inaccessible, and non-transparent.
Furthermore, there is no code of conduct governing the judiciary as a whole: separate rules or statements of
principles are stipulated for the "superior" and "subordinate" judiciary, which suggests there are different
standards for different judges. (Recently the Supreme Court has issued a much strengthened Code of
Conduct for the superior court.) There are also no effective performance standards for judges or their staff;
and while there is a tradition that court staff represent the public interest, there is no public service "ethos,"
per se. Accordingly, it is not unusual for the litigating public to be exposed to rent-seeking at the hands of
unscrupulous agents-which is particularly true at the lower rungs of the judicial ladder, where salaries and
benefits are low. Salary increases have been awarded to judges on occasion, but they have always been tied
to changes in Executive salaries, with no separate and independent review of judicial salaries.
(d)    The system is inequitable, as it has widened the gulf between the wealthy litigant, who can cope
with the system, and the poor or other vulnerable litigant, who cannot. Gender sensitivity is not a factor in
the selection and training ofjudges and their staff. The result is women are poorly represented both at the
bar and on the bench. Court fees are too high for poor litigants to afford, and few of them qualify for
exemption under the law. Very few convenient legal avenues are available for women and the poor to
pursue their claims without incurring excessive court fees. The legal recourses that exist are confined
essentially to Family Courts, whose jurisdiction is limited under the law, and Small Causes Courts, which
are weak both in form and function. The poor litigant can ill-afford counsel's fees in the absence of a
- 4 -



geographically widespread and effective legal aid system that could serve to offset the cost of such fees. A
state-sponsored legal aid system does exist, but is rarely used because the vulnerable litigant either does not
know the system well enough or because the state-appointed functionaries who control the system are
perceived as too intimidating to approach. A few NGOs offer free legal aid as part of their alternative
dispute resolution (ADR) efforts. ADR is based largely on traditional community structures for dispute
settlement in localities (known as shalish), which the NGOs have adapted to the special needs of the
underprivileged with good results. This approach can be used more broadly to help the underprivileged.
(e)    The system limits access of litigants to information useful to their case and creates a fear of the
legal system because its protocols and services are not widely known. There are currently limited
state-sponsored legal literacy and public awareness programs. Again some of the NGOs combine their legal
aid activities with such programs, but they are weak and need to be upgraded. The Bar Council recently
established a complaint and vigilance committee to keep the justice delivery system under scrutiny and
receive complaints against it from the litigating public; however, this comnittee is not yet functioning.
Court staff are usually not helpful in their dealings with the public and typically are unwilling to provide
information to which the public is entitled. Copies of court documents and orders are not easily obtainable.
The ligitating public also find it difficult to keep up with changes in the law. This is partially true because
there is no central source of information (or database) by which the law can be located; thus, it is extremely
difficult to know whether or not a law has been changed, and, if so, how often and to what extent. MOL's
own annotated laws are incomplete and out-of-date. The official gazette that records changes in laws is not
always published on schedule. Finally, there are no electronic databases of Bangladesh laws or Supreme
Court rulings (except for a recent development noted below).
Govermnent Strategy
As expressed in its fifth Five-Year Plan (FY 1997-2002), Bangladesh fully recognizes the significance of a
well-functioning legal and judicial system to the financial, commercial, and industrial life of the nation--and
of the need to remove the constraints to which that system is currently subject. The Plan acknowledges that
"the judicial process is...cumbersome and time-consuming" and the legal framework is sometimes
inadequate. The writers of the Plan also point out that legal and judicial reforms are "essential for the
creation of an enabling environment for the private sector to flourish and maximize its contribution to a
sustained growth." The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in this context has decided to undertake major
reforms with a view to making the civil justice system more effective, efficient, and accessible--together
with strengthening the country's legal framework for commercial and public service activity.
For this reason, as part of project preparation, local and international consultants were hired under PHRD
financing to carry out a major diagnostic study. The findings and recommendations of the study were s
ubsequently reviewed and confirned in stakeholder discussions at workshops across the country and in
other fora. The consultants' reports and workshop deliberations resulted in a Strategy Paper (SP) outlining
GOB's strategy for a comprehensive 10- to 15-year legal and judicial capacity- building program (the
Program). The SP is available in the Bank's files; its adoption has been confirmed in the Government's
"policy letter" (see Annex 11). A description of the Program as delineated in the SP appears below.
The legal framework of the Program will introduce reforms in areas where the current laws: (a) directly and
significantly impede commercial activity; (b) otherwise leave a gap in the framework to the prejudice of
commercial actors; or (c) depend on institutions (including the courts) that prejudice their effectiveness.
High priorities include: (i) land ownership, creation and enforcement of land interests, and land transfers
(which alone account for about 60% of court disputes in some parts of the country); (ii) creation and
enforcement of security interests in an enterprise as a going concern; (iii) consensual dispute resolution; (iv)
-5-



legal barriers to orderly exit of bankrupt or insolvent enterprises; (v) legal barriers to entry of enterprises,
including protected monopolies and licensing; and (vi) intellectual and industrial property. Areas of
secondary importance include: (i) corporate or business organizations; (ii) financial reporting; (iii)
negotiable instruments; (iv) consumer protection against misleading advertising; and (v) expropriation.
The civil justice system in the Program has been redesigned to promote efficiency, productivity, and
accountability. This will be done, inter alia, through effective case management; improved court
administration; judicial and clerical staff training; improved terms and conditions of service; and enhanced
judicial accountability. The Program has been designed, secondly, to improve access to justice. Action will
be taken to reduce/eliminate litigation costs, improve legal aid and introduce measures to raise the level of
gender consciousness. Finally, the Program will help raise the level of public confidence in the system and
what it has to offer. This will be done by mounting a legal literacy and public awareness campaign, in
addition to the confidence-building measures that form an integral part of the effort to promote efficiency
and integrity and improve access to justice.
As part of its strategy, the Government will divide the Program into discrete phases, starting with a focus
on judicial reforms, particularly reforms in case management and court administration, to be implemented
one at a time. To do otherwise would place too heavy a burden on the political will as well as on the
implementation and absorptive capacity of the country. The Program is a massive one, running the gamut
of the entire commercial legal framework and civil justice system. Its implementation as one package
would require the deployment of substantial resources -- human financial, and political - to which the
country currently has limited access.
The country's commitment to this long-term reform strategy has been reinforced by a recent judgment by
the Supreme Court of Bangladesh, calling for the separation and independence of the judiciary, and other
measures which embody many of the reform principles articulated in the Strategy Paper. The ruling
represents a declaration by the Supreme Court of its readiness to assume responsibility on matters
fundamental to its administration. While it will take some time to fully implement the ruling, delegation of
financial authority to the Supreme Court has already been achieved. The declaration by the apex court is an
important contribution to the process of judicial reforms.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector Issues
The Government decided to limit this first-phase project (the Project) to interventions that address the most
pressing problems of timeliness and accessibility to the civil justice system, and, at the same time, pave the
way for the sequencing of subsequent reforms. This reflects the Government's belief that to initiate the
proposed reforms in one package at one go throughout the country would be too ambitious an undertaking,
given the limited resources and experience in this area. The priority interventions under the Project are
geared to: (i) improve case management, (ii) reduce delays and case backlog, and (iii) improve access to
justice. Concentration during this first phase will be focused on the Supreme Court and on the courts of 21
of Bangladesh's 64 Districts (Project Districts). To further reduce implementation risks, reforms will be
initiated in 5 of 21 Project Districts (Stage I Districts) plus the Supreme Court before being replicated in
the remaining 16 Districts (Stage II Districts). The decision to limit the scope of the project also reflects the
Government's awareness of the parallel need to address the deficiencies of the commercial legal framework.
As many of the reforms in this area pertain to specific commercial, fiscal, and industrial sectors, it seemed
prudent to place these projects in their respective sectors--in fact, some of them are either already under
consideration or in an advanced stage of implementation. Land ownership issues, for example, are being
- 6 -



studied under ADB-fmanced technical assistance for the preparation of a land-titling project. The
Bankruptcy Law was prepared with expert assistance financed through a World Bank IDF grant, and any
additional work can continue through these channels. A British (DFID) grant was available for preparing a
Privatization Law, which was recently passed by Parliament which also adopted a new Arbitration Law,
the Arbitration Act, 2001.
The Project's focus is on:
(a) Case Management. Modem case management and alternative dispute resolution mechanisms that can
be applied under the Civil Procedure Code (CPC) will be initiated and tested in Stage I Districts and the
Supreme Court. Measures will include the active involvement ofjudges in setting a calendar for case
processing soon after a case is filed, observing the time limits already established in the CPC for the
various stages of a case, and case tracking. The Supreme Court's rule-making power (CPC, section 122)
and sanctions for default and false or vexatious claims can be invoked to aid effective case management.
Amendment of the CPC should not be considered before the measures under the CPC just mentioned are
implemented in Stage I Districts, with outcomes assessed by comparing them with baseline data gathered
when the reforms are initiated. Mediation will be encouraged as an altemative to trial. The judges and their
staff will be trained and disciplined for case management. Steps will be taken to strengthen the
admninistrative, spatial, and technological areas, along with providing concomitant incentives and
accountability mechanisms. Administrative staff will be better trained and equipped to share the
administrative workload of judges. A case management/classification module will be developed to facilitate
case filing and monitoring, scheduling, tracking, and caveat matching, as part of a computerized Court
Management Infonnation System (CMIS). Court facilities will be improved so that judges are no longer
required to take turns in using courtrooms or conduct hearings in dilapidated courthouses. More efficient
filing and records storage systems will also be introduced.
(b) Incentive System. Adequate public sector salaries are considered an important deterrent to corrupt
practices. In the recent Supreme Court pronouncements, judges would have separate salary scale, with
salary adjustments made through recommendations of a special pay commission (to be established). The
Supreme Court also recognized that while salary is an important incentive, there are others as well: for
example, better accountability mechanisms, with appropriate checks and balances, will also be needed. In
this regard, the Project will help generate greater accountability by implementing an automated case
management and court administration system, promulgating a suitable code of conduct, installing proper
supervision by higher courts, and developing monitorable performance standards--all of which will increase
transparency. A uniform Code of Conduct and performance standards will be introduced for judges and
their administrative staff, which will incorporate an explicit "public service" ethos, a concept heretofore
absent in general codes of this nature.
(c) Court Administration. Policies and structures will be created to enable the judiciary to assume
responsibility for its own policy-making and administration, and to free it from its dependence on the
Executive for daily personnel, facilities, and financial management. At the national level, the Registrar's
Office will be reorganized and strengthened as a first step towards establishing a central administrative
office for the judiciary. A planning function will be introduced and the Registrar's delegated spending
authority will be augmented. At the local (District) level, the Administrative Officer's function in the
District Judge's court will be upgraded and strengthened by establishing a central office structure with
pooled resources serving a number ofjudges and their courts from a central hub.
(d) Access to Justice. Measures will be taken to close the gender gap and enhance gender sensitivity in the
judiciary. Affirmative action criteria will be applied to improve women's representation on the bench.
- 7-



Judges and their staff will be given training in gender sensitivity. Existing formal and informal dispute
resolution mechanisms intended to benefit the underprivileged will be strengthened. In addition,
NGO-supported traditional community structures for settlement of disputes (shalish) will be promoted.
And Small Causes Courts will be revitalized and the special procedures already prescribed for small causes
will be assiduously followed.
Assistance will be provided to the poor and women litigants/claimants by better access to existing sources
of legal aid. The project will support the National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO), that has been
established by GOB through an Act in 2000, which is charged with the resposibility for carrying out the
State sponsored legal aid program as a means for improving access to justice for the underprivileged. The
NLAO will be eligible to receive funds under the Project once evidence satisfactory to IDA is received that
NLAO has become operational in accordance with the recommendations of the study conducted for the
purpose under the Project. Selected civil society-sponsored access mechanisms now available will be
promoted and strengthened to keep the general public and especially the underprivileged informed about the
legal system, current developments, and how it is intended to serve the public.
To reduce implementation risks, case management and court administration reforms will be implemented in
the five Stage I Districts during the first three years, concentrating on two of the five in the first 18 months,
and then expanding to the remaining three in the next 18 months. During the final three project years, this
process will be repeated in Stage II District Courts. Implementation of case management and court
administration reforms in Stage II Courts will proceed more expeditiously than in Stage I because: (a)
constraints under existing procedural codes and rules will have been identified and solutions applied in
Stage I Courts, which will be incorporated in Stage II Court reforms--as Stage I District reforms are in
their final implementaiton phase; (b) case management and court administration training also will have
begun at the new Judicial Administration Training Institute (JATI), so District judges in Stage II will
receive training at the very beginning of the reform process; (c) any Code amendments or rules enacted to
address constraints identified during Stage I implementation will be ready for uniform application in Stage
II; and (d) by emulating Stage I District Court judges, Stage II judges can quickly spearhead the reform
program in their districts-- if necessary, with the help of consultants that will continue to be available
throughout the project. To ensure an orderly and focused implementation of caseload management reform,
diagnostic work on caseload analysis was carried out in the Chittagong District Court in the last week of
March 2000. The reform implementation plan outlined above was developed based on the results of this
analysis. (Flow charts depicting the implementation phases of the case management and case administration
reform program appear in Annex 2-A.)
The selection of Project Districts, including Stage I Districts, represents a wide geographical dispersion
incorporating rural and urban areas, all types and volumes of transactions, and different court sizes. The
District Judge will be expected to take the lead in carrying out the reforms in each Project District. In the
Stage I Districts, judges will have an opportunity to pioneer the reforms and develop approaches for other
Districts to replicate. The commitrnent and capacity of the District Judge to champion change will carry
considerable weight as a factor in the selection of Stage I Districts.
The small scale of the Supreme Court structure provides little latitude for significant change. For this
reason, reforms will be administrative and managerial in nature: namely, gathering baseline data, purging
caseloads, introducing case management techniques, installing the CMIS, and restructuring the Registrar's
Office to give it increased planning and financial responsibility and the requisite autonomy. The Supreme
Court already has started reorganizing the Registrar's Office to improve Court administration and case
management as a priority, including reorganizing work among the Additional Registrar, Deputy Registrars,
and Assistant Registrars, and preparing a breakdown of different case types pending in the Court to
- 8 -



rationalize case management.
(A detailed Project Description appears in Annex 2, with a list of Project Districts, divided into Stage I and
Stage II Districts in Attachment 1.)
Strategic Choices
The process of identifying Project components from the Program required deciding among a number of
strategic choices. The first alternative considered was either to implement the Program in its entirety or
limit the Project to only a few components. It was decided to limit the Project to a few components, i.e.,
right-size the Project, because to do otherwise could easily put undue pressure on the political will to carry
out the reforms as well as overly strain the implementation and absorptive capacity of the country.
A second choice was to adopt either a piecemeal or a comprehensive approach. It was decided to take a
comprehensive approach that will make the civil justice system more effective, efficient, and accessible.
Other international experience, as well as experience in Bangladesh, suggests that a piecemeal approach to
judicial and legal reforn is unlikely to succeed. Tinkering with a law here and an institution there is
unlikely to make a significant difference in a policy and structural environment which is itself essentially
flawed. The components selected are considered manageable building blocks, with strategic linkages to the
overall Program, and should lead to strengthening governance.
A third choice was either to undertake the reforms in their currently proposed state or test them in an effort
to optimize their ultimate impact. It was decided to implement and test the reforms in a few Project
Districts before replicating them in others. In this way, if problems arise in the early stages, it will be
easier to deal with them in a controlled and contained environment than if they were already generalized to
the entire system. This approach considerably reduces the risk of failure.
The fourth choice was to either limit the Project's scope to the civil justice system or include the criminal
justice system as well. The decision was to limit the Project to civil justice reform. Taking on both the civil
and the criminal systems simultaneously would be too ambitious a task and unlikely to succeed. An
additional consideration was that DFID (of the UK) has shown interest in supporting criminal justice
system reforms. Benefits expected from the Project would also accrue on the criminal side. At the local
level, the District Judge, the Additional District Judges and the Sub-Judges exercise both civil and criminal
jurisdiction; therefore, any efficiencies these judges gain under the Project-even though acquired under the
civil justice reform-will affect both civil and criminal sides. Moreover, improvements in access to justice
for civil society, especially the targeted underprivileged segments, flowing from the Project would result in
an overall improvement-whether for settlement of economic claims or resolution of family or social
disputes that threaten law and order.
g9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
=~~~~~~~~~~~I~ctv                                     i    -     n.       %r ~f ;|  
1. Judicial Capacity Building*     Institutional       35.62       81.6     25.44       83.1
Development
2. Improving Access to Justice      Social Assistance   3.44        7.9      3.09       10.1
3. Legal Reform Capacity Building*    Institutional     2.10        4.8      0.00        0.0
Development
4. Preparation of Future Reforms    Institutional       0.87        2.0      0.78        2.5
Development
5. Project Implementation and Related   Institutional   1.60        3.7      1.29        4.2
Services                           Development
Total Project Costs                   43.63     100.0      30.60     100.0
Total Financing Required                    43.63      100.0     30.60      100.0
*Judicial training will be co-financed (parallel) partly by DANIDA; Legal Reform Capacity Building will be
co-financed (parallel) by CIDA.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) Division of Labor. Judges will give judicial work priority over administrative duties. New
organizational structures (for the District Court, an upgraded court administrative officer) will make it
possible for much of the administrative workload of trial judges to be shifted to competent administrators,
which should improve general court administration as well.
(b) Improved Efficiency and Transparency. It will become more difficult for the judicial process to be
abused and delayed. Case management and altemative dispute resolution mechanisms will be applied
under the existing rules relating to case processing, time limits, sanctions for default, and enforcement, as
prescribed by the Civil Procedure Code (CPC), the Money Loan Court Act, the Small Causes Court Act,
the Family Court Ordinance, the Bankruptcy Court Act, Civil Rules and Orders and other Acts.
Automation will be available for case processing and case tracking and to control the pace and direction of
court cases.
(c) Increased Access by the Poor and Underpriviliged. It will become easier for the poor or other
vulnerable litigants to obtain access to the legal system because of measures (a) and (b) above. The
judiciary will become more sensitive to the needs of the underprivileged, especially women, children and the
poor. The gender gap in the judiciary will be reduced and judges and their staff will receive training in
gender issues. Grass-roots legal literacy and public information programs will be supported as a means of
informing the underprivileged of case management and altemative dispute resolution mechanisms.
- 10 -



(d) Increased Judicial Autonomy. The judiciary will be given a larger say in planning and meeting its own
needs. A planning and budgeting function will be added to the Registrar's Office in the Supreme Court, as
well as to the Administrative Officer's function in the District Courts. Spending authority within the
approved budget will be delegated to the courts as designated.
(e) Increased Accountability by the Judiciary. The judiciary will become more accountable for its
performance. Performance standards will be mandated for all judges and their staff, and they will be
regularly inspected by the Supreme Court. In addition, annual reports will be published on the state of the
judiciary, and periodic surveys of public attitudes towards the judiciary will be conducted along with user
surveys.
3. Benefits and target population:
While the Project's focus is on improving the legal and institutional framework for doing business, the
resulting benefits will extend well beyond the business community to society at large and the
underprivileged in particular. Case management, alternative dispute resolution, and improved court
administration will enhance the efficiency of courts, reduce delays, backlogs, and costs, and inspire
confidence in the justice system. This will improve access to justice for all, including the underprivileged.
The Project design includes specific components to address the needs of the underprivileged; namely,
building legal awareness among the underprivileged by informiing and educating them about their rights;
explaining to them ways for using the judicial system including accessing the existing legal aid; and
explaining the benefits of using ADR and promoting its use. Improvements in the structure, processes, and
facilities of the courts-though intended initially to allow better access for contract enforcement purposes--
will be designed to provide better access for any and all purposes. Improvements in the machinery and
processes of law reform, though intended initially to facilitate legislative action in support of judicial
reforn, will be designed to facilitate any kind of law reform, including economic law reform.
Inprovements in the system, especially with computerization and improved use of information technology,
though intended initially to make it easier for the courts to locate and determine the state of rules in play,
will be designed to make it easier for anyone, including businesses and their legal counsels, to do so as
well. In addition, the resulting more transparent and accountable justice system should contribute
substantially to the reduction of rent-seeking and corruption in the country.
In a narrower sense, the benefits will target more specific segments of the population. By placing the
Judicial Administration Training Institute on a sound basis, the Project will fill a long-standing void in
judicial human resource development. By acquiring a direct role in planning and spending, the judiciary
will take the first steps toward assuming responsibility over its own affairs as a separate, third branch of
govenmment. The use of automation will give the judiciary important experience in the use of new
technology. Improved case management and court processes will be of particular benefit to the financial
sector, which has been plagued in the past by faulty debt recovery processes and the lack of effective
enforcement mechanisms.
Improved accessibility to the legal system plus lower economic and social costs of legal services will help
level the playing field for investors and citizens regardless of financial importance or social status. Modem
arbitration and mediation mechanisms will enable commercial parties, with a genuine desire to resolve their
disputes, to bypass the trial part of litigation; instead, legal matters will be handled by an arbitrator of their
choice, thus relieving the court of some of its workload. Strengthened traditional dispute resolution
mechanisms (shalish) will provide a means for the underprivileged to have their disputes resolved in a less
structured, less costly environment than a court of law. If they must go to court, the underprivileged will be
treated with more respect for their rights before the law: judges will be expected to exhibit more gender
- 11 -



sensitivity; small claims litigants will be able to obtain quick redress in a forum convenient for them; and
court staff and facilities will become more accommodating to the needs of the litigating public. Inproved
transparency through computerization and automation is expected to be of particular benefit to
litigants--especially the underprivileged.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Project will be implemented over six years (FY2002-08). The MOL will assume responsibility for
facilitating and coordinating Project implementation. Each entity (SC, MOL, JATI, LC) involved in the
Project will be responsible for implementation of the components under its purview. As the Project is
reform-driven, implementation mechanisms will enable the participating entities to undertake their own
reforms. Therefore, while overall responsibility for implementing the court-related reforms will reside in
the Supreme Court, the District Judges will head the reform process in their particular districts. A high-
powered Oversight Committee will provide them with policy guidance and a Consultative Group will hold
periodic counsulations with stakeholders. The reform effort will be supplemented by resources facilitated,
coordinated, and monitored by MOL.
The following sections describe the roles of the Project Oversight Committee (POC) and the Consultative
Group (CG), the implementation responsibilities of the MOL, and the responsibilities of the individual
entities, their relationship to the POC and CG, and the appointment of officials by MOL to implement the
project.
Project Oversight
The POC will consist of the Chief Justice, the Law Minister, and the Chairman Law Commission, and will
be responsible for general oversight of the project. Its role is to provide policy and operational guidance to
Project entities. The Project entities can approach the POC for resolving problems and issues that they feel
unable to resolve.
The CG will comprise a broad spectrum of Bangladesh civil society. It will meet at least once a year and
receive and provide input on broad issues affecting the judicial system. The CG is an important institution
to gamer support for the Project and ensure civil society is aware of the implementation of judicial reforms.
Where representative selection of the members for the CG is not clear, the MOL will make the selection
from the organizations concerned.
Implementation Arrangements
Each project entity will be responsible for carrying out its part(s) of the project components. The
individuals primarily responsible in each of those entities will be: (a) the Registrar of the Supreme Court
for reforms in the Supreme Court; (b) each of the District Judges for reforms in their respective courts; (c)
the Director General of the Judicial Training Institute (JATI) for the JT component (parallel financed
jointly by IDA and DANIDA); (d) an officer not below the rank of Deputy Secretary working in the
Drafting Wing for the Drafting Wing component; and (e) the Secretary, Law Commission for the Law
Commission component (parallel-fnanced by CIDA).
Components Implemented by the Supreme Court and District Courts
To guide and oversee implementation of the reforms in the Supreme Court and District Courts, a Supreme
Court Project hnplementation Committee (SCPIC) has been established by the Honorable Chief Justice,
- 12 -



comprising three Supreme Court judges and the Registrar. The SCPIC will be expanded if required during
implementation. All terms of reference and selection of consultants relating to Case Management and
Court Administration components will be cleared through the SCPIC, in coordination with the MOL. The
corresponding consultant reports would be sent for review and guidance to the SCPIC. Its members also
will visit District Courts periodically to review progress, trouble-shoot, and provide the necessary
oversight. The Project Director will maintain active liaison with the SCPIC to ensure smooth
implementation, and mobilize any additional support needed.
The Registrar, along with an Additional Registrar, will be responsible for the implementation of the
Supreme Court (SC) components. They will seek direction from the SCPIC and also the participation of
District Courts when necessary; however, reforms in each of the selected districts will be implemented
under the leadership of the District Judge concerned.
Along with local leadership provided by District Judges, the SC will implement: (i) an improved case
management system; (ii) a Court Management Infonnation System (CMIS) and automation; (iii) a
restructured court administration; (iv) preparation of bench books and development of legal and
administrative forms and other material needed to support new legal standards for processing cases; (v)
development of practices to enable judges and their staff to become more gender sensitive, including closing
the gender gap on the bench; (vi) preparation of budgets and plans for the judiciary following GOB
guidelines; (vii) oversight of performance standards for judges; and (viii) jointly with the MOL, technical
proposals for future judicial reforms.
Project Imiplementation and Coordination by the MOL and Role of Public Works Devartment
,!PiWD)
The MOL will be responsible for and coordinate financial and budgetary control, and facilitate
procurernent of goods, and services of the different agencies. Within the MOL, the Secretary will have
overall responsibility for facilitating and coordinating Project activities. However, for the day-to-day
coordination and facilitation associated with Project implementation, it has been agreed that an MOL
officer, not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary/Deputy Chief, will be designated as the Project Director
(PD). (MOL has already appointed one of its Joint Secretaries as the PD, who for some time has been
actively involved in Project preparation.) The PD will be assisted by a Deputy/Assistant Director (also an
MOL official) and other officials, and be advised of all technical matters of legal and judicial reform by a
Reform Advisory Consultants (RAC) group, led by a Resident Legal Advisor (RLA) with international
experience in judicial reforms, and a Deputy Legal Advisor (DLA) with local experience. The RAC group
would be phased out during Project implementation as the Govemmnent team becomes more experienced
with the reform process. The PD, who will report to the MOL Secretary, will have responsibility for
ensuring sound financial management of the Project and for all procurement (other than civil works, which
is the responsibility of GOB's Public Works Department (PWD)) in consultation with the different project
entities, in addition to managing the legal services and communications strategy. The MOL will obtain the
project entities' requirements (quantity, specifications, and the time of delivery), prepare the Procurement
Plan, and also process the procurement according to Processing Schedules. PWD and MOL will be
responsible for preparing the Procurement Plans for Works and Goods and Services contracts, respectively.
The concerned agencies will approve the standards and designs where applicable. The Procurement Plan,
including the processing schedules for all procurements, will be reviewed and approved by IDA prior to
initiating any procurement activity.
The infrastructure component will be implemented by the PWD of the Ministry of Housing and Public
Works (MHPW) in consultation with the concerned implementing project entities and in close coordination
- 13-



with the MOL. PWD will handle the procurement of civil works and be responsible for: the design of works
using a participatory approach; supervision of the works contracted out; and procurement of short-term
consultants' expert services for limited activities. To define responsibilities concerning the infrastructure
component, PWD and MOL signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), which has been reviewed
and found acceptable by IDA. Under the MOU, while PWD will provide the supervision of civil works,
the MOL will have resources for ensuring quality control of the buildings that are constructed.
The MOL (through the PD and other officials in the Project) will also monitor progress on the
implementation of all Project components; provide technical advice and direction and/or trouble-shooting
services to the agencies involved in the Project, for which it will use the services of the RAC group. MOL
will prepare all Project management and other reports required by the GOB, IDA/other donors; coordinate
with IDA/other donors and Project supervision missions; and interact with the NGOs.
The MOL will be responsible for taking action to close the gender gap, as well as providing periodic
Project updates and preparing technical studies for future judicial reforms. The PD will manage the Access
to Justice component. There will also be a Legal Services Support Committee (LSSC) that will meet twice
yearly to review and monitor the quality of NGO service delivery at the grassroots level. The LSSC will
comprise the Project Director (Member Secretary), plus one representative each from: the Association of
Development Agencies of Bangladesh (ADAB), one retired justice of the High Court ( Chair), the Jatiya
Mahila Sangsthya, the Human Rights Commission, a senior advocate of the Supreme Court or a District
Bar, and Chairperson, Law Department, Dhaka University.
Components Supported by Other Donors
Components Imnilemented by MOL and LC under Parallel Co-financing by CIDA
The reform of the Drafting Wing of MOL and institutional strengthening of LC will be implemented
through parallel co-financing by CIDA. The MOL will be responsible for: revamping its Drafting
Wing/Division; and carrying out the legislative program to support the judicial reform by: referring
proposed legislative reforms to concerned agencies for detailed examination, approving agencies' proposals
and converting them into legislative instruments through the Drafting Wing, and submitting those
instruments to the Cabinet and Parliament for enactment. The MOL will be responsible for the preparation
of the Bangladesh Code. The Law Commission (LC) will implement all actions necessary to strengthen
itself, in consultation with MOL. The LC will assign one member as coordinator for Project
implementation, along with the LC' s Secretary, assisted by the LC staff, including at least two
researchers/legal officers, who will be appointed before the Project begins. The LC will consult with the SC
on the laws it drafts, especially procedural laws. It also will have overall responsibility for preparing
detailed proposals for legislative reforms referred to it by the MOL. The Secretary, MOL, will have
overall responsibility for carrying out activities related to legislative changes in support of judicial reforns,
and strengthening of the Drafting Wing. However, the day-to-day implementation responsibility will lie
with an MOL officer, no lower than Deputy Secretary rank, who works in the Drafting Wing. The
day-to-day responsibility for carrying out LC's activities under the Project will be assigned to the member
designated by its Chairman, assisted by its Secretary and two researchers/legal officers.
Component Implemented by JATI under Parallel Co-financing by DANIDA
DANIDA will implement the four-year training plan of JATI agreed with IDA and DANIDA. In addition,
DANIDA funding will cover other areas not addressed by the Project, such as training on human rights.
DANIDA financing also will provide funds for renting facilities so JATI can bridge the time needed to
- 14 -



construct the permanent JATI building (financed by IDA). The day-to-day responsibility for carrying out
JATI's activities under the Project will be on its Director General, assisted by one full-time instructor.
Financial Management (FM)
(a) The MOL will be responsible for coordinating and facilitating Project implementation. It is also
responsible for ensuring proper flow of funds for all components under the project, except for the Works
component. Under a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) signed with MOL, it was agreed that the
Government's PWD will implement the Works component. As such, both MOL and PWD will have to
ensure that project funds are spent for the purpose intended and with emphasis on economy and efficiency.
An assessment of MOL's and PWD's capacity to meet the Bank's financial management has been carried
out. The budgeting, accounting, reporting, monitoring, and fund management in the MOL and the
institutions under its jurisdiction are similar to that of other GOB ministries and agencies. Its current
financial management system was found acceptable to meet Bank's minimum financial management
requirements at project start up. The financial management capacity of MOL would be further
strengthened with additional staff appointment and imparting TA. The PWD is familiar with
development-type projects and has good accounting, reporting and intemal control system in place.
(b) The MOL has designated one of its officials as the Project Director (PD) for coordinating project
implementation.  The MOL will appoint one FME and two Accountants to assist the PD.  A
Superintending Engineer along with two other Engineers, as well as one Accounts Officer and two
Accountants will head the PWD implementation team, for project fmancial management.
(c) The computerized accounting system will generate Project Management Reports (PMRs). The specific
format of PMRs has been agreed with the Government and included in the PIP. By February 2002, a
decision will be taken, in consultation with IDA, as to whether this project will qualify for PMR-based
disbursement, starting July 2002. PMRs will be submitted to IDA regardless of the conversion decision.
Disbursement of IDA funds will be based on traditional disbursement procedures until the Project is
converted to the PMR method. MOL and PWD will prepare lA (Project Sources and Uses of Funds) and
3A-D (Procurement Management Reports for procurement process monitoring of works, goods, and
consultant services) for each quarterly submission to IDA.
(d) The accounts and financial statements of the Project will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor
General (C&AG), through the Directorate of Audits, Foreign Aided Projects. The audited Project Financial
Statement (PFS) will be submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In addition,
an operational audit will be conducted, which will require an audit fimn from the private sector. IDA will
review the terms of reference and selection method of all audit firms. The cost for conducting such audits
will be eligible for financing under the project. Two such audits will be conducted, one at mid-term review
(MTR), and the other one year prior to Credit closing.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements
The project has established performance indicators (Annex 1), based on which benchmarks will be
established through baseline studies to be undertaken within six months of project effectiveness. These will
be agreed during Negotiations and periodically reviewed to measure progress against performance
standards and implementation schedules.
- 15 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(a) A Technical Assistance project would have been appropriate to assist Bangladesh's efforts to improve
its legal framework, through the preparation of new and amended laws, and its court system, through the
induction of institutional changes. This alternative, however, was rejected in favor of investment lending
for the reason that part of the problem also is a severe lack of physical space and other amenities, resulting
in loss ofjudges' time and a mounting case backlog. This, too, needed to be addressed through upgrading
of court infrastructure and equipment because it has a direct bearing on the efficiency of court
operations/systems .
(b) Because of the phasing/sequencing required in implementing the proposed judicial reforms, the Learning
and Innovation Loan (LIL) option was considered; however, under current circumstances, sufficient
knowledge of the issues and possible solutions are now available as a consequence of diagnostic studies and
project preparation activites related to an investment loan. Moreover, the Govermnent has shown
substantial commitment to the proposed judicial reforms and taken substantial measures pursuant to its
commitment, including a recent judgment by the Supreme Court calling for the separation and
independence of the judiciary. In addition, learning will take place throughout the Project which is built into
the implementation scheme. The reforms in the first two District Courts would be replicated in the other
Project courts, employing lessons and experience from challenges and successes that occur while
implementing the initial District reforms. Synergies can be expected to occur in subsequent applications of
experience and expertise gained from the initial group of District courts. For these reasons, a LIL was not
considered appropriate to respond to the reform initiatives the Government is undertaking.
(c) The Project employs features that might make it eligible for Adaptable Program Lending (APL);
however, there is no major difference between an APL and two or three projects sequenced to support the
various phases of judicial reforms--perhaps within a span of 15 years that may be needed to complete the
judicial reform process. Moreover, an APL would require agreeing on a budget at the outset, which may
not be appropriate, given that the reforms under the Project will take six years to complete. If the reforms
under the proposed Project are successful, they will have a significant positive effect. While the Project's
infrastructure and technology components are concentrated on the Supreme Court, and 21 out of
Bangladesh's 64 Districts, the institutional and policy reforms achieved will apply throughout the country.
There are other legal reforms planned under the Government's Strategy; however, most of them, e.g.,
Telecommunication Act, Intellectual Property, and Land Titles, are in the domain of ministries and
agencies, other than MOL, with many either taken up or being taken up by other agencies. Some
components (e.g., legal education) are likely to be supported by other donors. Therefore, it was considered
more appropriate that these and any other remaining reforms should be more deeply analyzed and
introduced as discrete components of a future project(s).
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                       Project                  (PSR) Ratings
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (Bank-financed  projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                     Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
IDF Grant to support some immediate  Technical Assistance for         S             S
but limited needs arising from     Capacity Enhancement of LC,
institutional strengthening of LC, JATI, JATI, MOL (TF 027508)
and MOL.
Other development agencies
Study and preparation of an Act to  UNDP funded technical
improve access of the poor to justice    assistance to formulate an Act
to establish Village Courts
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Development assistance agencies are concerned about the challenges that legal and judicial reform
programs present to their client countries and how they affect the balance among the various branches of
their governments, given the novelty and complexity of such programs. It is therefore imperative that
lessons learned from past experience be taken into account by such agencies in the design and structuring
of future projects. A number of lessons drawn from World Bank experience in this area have been
incorporated into the design of the project.
The first lesson is that legal and judicial refonrn is a long-term process. Very often these reforms
are implemented in stages so the sequencing should take into account both priorities as well as the country's
capacity to implement such reforms. In Bangladesh, the reform program set out in the Strategy Paper is
wide-ranging and comprehensive, and is expected to take 15 years to carry out fully. Given the limited
institutional capacity of the implementing agencies, it was decided to phase the Program, the first-phase
focusing on areas of immediate concern and limited to 21 out of the 64 Districts. The implementation
period ofjhe first-phase project is 6years. To further reduce implementation risks, reforms would start
with 5 Project Districts in the first two years, and then be replicated tn the remaining 16 Project Districts
over the nextfour projectyears.
The second lesson is that the desire for legal and judicial reform should come from within the
country itself. To determine reform priorities, a prior review of the specific country's conditions is helpful.
This review would examine the legal framework as well as the judiciary, taking into account the country's
cultural, political, social, and economic environment and would identify priorities in the country's specific
context. In Bangladesh, there is clear evidence of strong stakeholder commitment and ownership. Project
preparation was undertaken at the initiative of the Government and the Supreme Court, and in response
to pressure from civil society and interest groups, particularly business chambers. The Bank played a
catalytic role by facilitating this process. The reform priorities were identifed through diagnostic
studies conducted by leading jurists, lawyers, and other sector specialists of the country, supplemented
- 17 -



by international experts, as well as through consultations at stakeholder workshops organized across the
country.
The third lesson is that there is a need for governnent commitment. Efforts at reforming the
judiciary often are impeded by pressure from vested interests intent on maintaining the status quo or
capturing the reform program and directing it to accommodate their particular agenda. Thus, it is
important to build coalitions to overcome these vested interests. There has to be true ownership and
genuine commnitment on the part of the government, not only the executive, but the legislative, and, where it
is affected, the judicial branch as well. In Bangladesh there is broad-based commitment to the reform,
especially on the part of the executive and judiciary. The commitment has been expressed through
willingness to reform institutions and work with modern processes. Coalitions have been built through
other stakeholder participation in project preparation to minimize opposition from vested interest
groups.
The fourth lesson is that these projects should be conducted using a participatory approach.
Participation is needed to gain ownership and commitment from the government and stakeholders; some of
the stakeholders include different branches of government, bar associations, law schools, NGOs, and
citizens. To gain the necessary support for such reforms, it is important that there be project ownership.
Ownership can be achieved through holding workshops and town meetings in order to plan a project for
reform. The Bangladesh reform program was prepared based on work largely undertaken by local
experts representing a cross-section of the bench, the bar, the law schools and civil society; on
countrywide stakeholder consultations in workshops and other forums; and, of course, on close
consultations with concerned government officials. Besides the Ministry of Law, the key players included
judges of the District Courts and the Supreme Court, representatives of civil society at large, including
legal aid NGOs, the Bar Council, the Bar Associations in different Districts, key Members of
Parliament, academics, journalists, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Establishment. The key
change agents are the Minister of Law and the Chief Justice of Bangladesh. During implementation,
certain District Judges identified as change agents at the local level will take charge of the reforms to be
piloted in the Stage I Districts. In addition, continued input and support will be obtainedfrom a broad
spectrum of stakeholders represented by a Consultative Group, which will be established to assist the
authorities in periodically reviewing progress under the project.
The fifth lesson is that wholesale importation of legal systems may not be appropriate. While
comparative law experience is an extremely important source of guidance, it should be adapted to national
legal systems and the particular requirements of the society concerned. In addition, the benefits from
foreign experts who provide a comparative perspective should be fused with knowledge of the local legal
community, knowledge of the language, social norms and the socio-economic factors underpinning the
country's political structure and legal traditions. As indicated above, the elements of the Bangladesh
reform program were identified through diagnostic studies conducted by the country's own leading
jurists, lawyers, and other experts and through wide stakeholder consultations held within the country.
International expertise was only used to further strengthen and supplement the locally-prepared
diagnostic studies, and to bring the experience of other countries to bear on them in areas where this was
needed. In any case, a substantial proportion of this international expertise came from within the region
itseyland was based on shared common experience with Bangladesh. In this way, the reform program
can legitimately be claimed to be home-grown in all important respects.
The sixth lesson is that effectiveness and coherence of legal reform require a comprehensive
approach that ensures the modernized legal system will not suffer from internal inconsistencies. In
Bangladesh, in response to the Government and the Supreme Court 's wishes, a comprehensive approach
- 18 -



has been given preference over a piecemeal one. This is very much borne out by the Strategy Paper,
which is based on a long-term vision offull-fledged reform. The Strategy Paper makes it clear that
reform needs to be approachedfrom several different angles at the same time if it is to make a difference.
While only a selection of the reform proposals set out in the Strategy Paper will be addressed under this
project, those proposals continue to reflect the multi-faceted approach and are seen to be closely
inter-related, together making up a comprehensive whole. It is strongly believed that it would be useless
to take up only some of the proposals without taking up the others. For instance, what useful purpose
would a directive serve that modern case management techniques be introduced in the courts, unless
arrangements are put in place at the same time for judges and their staff to be trained in those
techniques; unless the judges and their staff are given the technology to help them implement those
techniques; and unless the performance of the judges and their staff can be evaluated to determine
whether those techniques have had any impact on it. In other words, the Bangladesh approach is to
divide the reform program into smaller packages for the sake of convenience and ease of implementation,
but with each package addressing a wide variety of interrelated concerns and designed to stand on its
own merits.
The seventh and last lesson is that legal and judicial reform projects are difficult to evaluate and
the Bank is constantly developing and refining performance indicators that will allow objective evaluations.
To conduct evaluations, knowledge of the country's justice delivery system, judicial culture, legal
framework, and procedural codes are essential, and this knowledge can be enhanced through empirical
research. The Bank, for example, recently completed some research on court performance indicators.
With the availability of empirical information, performance standards can be developed to evaluate the
progress, impacts, and outcomes of legal and judicial reforms. It is also important to define realistic goals
that take into account the political economy and social dimensions. In Bangladesh's case, pains have been
taken to carefully design proper performance and outcome indicators, bearing in mind the realities of the
situation, especially the authorities' lack offamiliarity with this type of project and their currently limited
implementation capacity. Provision has been made for bench marks to be established at the outset of the
project, andfor progress to be measured against those benchmarks at carefully determined stages of
project implementation.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government and other stakeholders' commitment to the project is high, demonstrated by up-front actions in
line with recommendations of the Strategy Paper. These include: reorganization of the Drafting Wing of the
MOL; recruiting eight new draftsmen; taking steps to amend key laws such as the Arbitration Act and the
Admiralty Act; and starting the process to reform the Law Commission Act. The initial request for a legal
and judicial reform project came from the Ministry of Law. This was well received by the Judiciary,
members of the legal profession, the business community, civil society, and other GOB officials. The
Borrower's commitment is reflected by quick approval of a Technical Assistance Project Proforma (TAPP)
by its Planning Commission for TA to prepare the project. Further commitment is reflected in GOB's
initiative to activate the permanent LC and establish a permanent Judicial Administration Training Institute
(JATI) in a temporary facility provided by GOB. The JATI has organized and conducted several short
training courses for new judges under constrained circumstances and with limited resources. As already
indicated (see Section A.2 of this document), the country's commitment to the project is more than evident
from the Government's most recent expressions of support to be found in the Policy Letter (Annex 11), and
from the Supreme Court's recent judgment on judicial independence.
- 19-



The Chief Justice and other judges of the Supreme Court are taking a keen interest in the project and the
Minister of Law has given his full support. To oversee project preparation activities, GOB had constituted
a Task Force consisting of representatives from the government, judiciary, civil society, and the private
sector to guide project preparation activities. The project preparation work was launched through a
workshop with participants including the Minister of Law, members of Parliament, judges, lawyers, leading
NGO's, and donors. Subsequently, more stakeholder workshops were held across the country. In those
workshops, and also during visist to District Courts by consultants for a diagnostic study, District Judges
expressed eagerness to start case management and other reforms in their courts. These judges will play a
leadership role in case management and court reforms in their respective Districts.
The project preparation work was entrusted in the first instance to local consultant teams on which the
bench, the bar, and academia are fully represented. Support of citizens and the commitment of the
Government, key leaders, and judges of Project Districts for the reform process is in place, which
cumulatively provides greater probability of successful project implementation.
The Government has agreed to establish properly staffed preparation and implementation teams at the
MOL, the Supreme Court, and in the District Courts, so that implementation of reforms is mainstreamed
and sustainable capacity is developed to carry out future reforms.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
As evidenced by the Bangladesh CAS, the focus of the Bank's dialogue with the country is on institutional
development as a means to improve overall govemance - for which there is increasing demand in the
country. IDA in the past has supported six technical assistance projects, and recently helped carry out a
major study on public administration reform (see World Bank, Government that Works - Reforming the
Public Sector, University Press, 1996).
Legal and judicial institutional development is a principal element of public administration and govemance
reform in Bangladesh. Keeping that in view, the Bank had already begun its involvement in this area in
response to the Government's request for assistance with its comprehensive government reform effort. For
instance, IDA recently provided assistance through grant funding for JATI, LC and MOL so they could
meet their most urgent needs, as well as to help prepare a banking sector reform project, which includes
strengthening the legal and judicial environment for loan recovery. Most of this assistance however is
limited to addressing banking sector issues, and is neither intended nor expected to have a significant effect
on the administration ofjustice.
The Bank believes it now has sufficient experience with the legal and judicial institutions of Bangladesh to
respond affirnatively to the country's request for assistance to develop a comprehensive judicial reformn
project. Using PHRD Grant funds, the Bank has already provided technical assistance to the Government
to help prepare a Strategy Paper on Legal and Judicial Reformn in Bangladesh, which reflects the
Government's long-tern vision for reform. The proposed project-Legal and Judicial Capacity Building
Project- which is a vital part of the reform program set out in the Strategy Paper, will help bring
significant reforms to a critical organ of the state, and is expected to have a sustained and positive impact
on the rule of law and govemance in the country through improved efficiency and accountability of the
civil justice system as well as improved access.
Apart from being a logical next step in the continuing relationship between Bangladesh and the Bank in this
area, the Bank's participation in financing this project is warranted for other reasons. First, the Bank will
bring to bear its global experience in legal and judicial reform projects to underpin the design and
- 20 -



implementation of the Govemnment's own project. Second, based on the Bank's continued involvement, it
will be in a better position to use its leverage to help the Government prepare and implement institutional
and procedural reforms likely to have maximum impact, particularly in the financial sector, which is
plagued by nonpreforming loans. Third, the Bank's global experience will enable it to provide an umbrella
framework for the Government and the donor community to improve governance. This will be essential for
partnership-building and coordination, and lends credibility to the reformn effort. Fourth, the Bank will be
in a good position to help the Government provide the additional funds needed to meet minimum
infrastructure and technological requirements of the judiciary so that justice can be delivered effectively,
efficiently, expeditiously, and at a reasonable cost.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV-US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
Economic analysis of judicial reform projects in the context of the role of the state, as reflected in the
World Development Report, 1997, indicates that the reliability of judicial enforcement in commercial
matters and freedom from corruption is positively correlated with significantly increased economic activity.
Judicial reform would improve the enabling environment for business, thus reducing the cost of doing
business and helping spur growth; in addition, it will also help targeted poverty reduction by improving
access to justice, especially for underserved populaitons, i.e., the poor and women. As a catalytic reforrn
project to build supportive institutional arrangements, formal attempts at quantitative cost-benefit or
cost-effectiveness analyses would be misleading. The overall economic benefits from the project may be
difficult to quantify; however, qualitatve assessments can be made on economic growth by reducing the
cost of doing business and relatedly improving access to justice for the poor and underserved populations
(especially women) to further social and economic equity, as follows:
(a)    Reducing the cost of doing business to promote economic growth
(i) A weak judicial system, unable to act expeditiously and transparently (i.e., at a reasonable cost), protect
property rights, enforce contracts, and settle disputes effectively and efficiently, increases the cost of using
that system and thus the risk of conducting business. By improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the
Bangladesh civil justice system, the project will reduce the risk as well as the cost of doing business. This,
in turn, is expected to be a catalyst for more domestic investment and foreign direct investment (FDI), the
level of which are currently extremely low in Bangladesh.
(ii) The tendency toward corruption and weak governance have been contributing factors to limiting
growth. A modernized and effective justice system is a vehicle for ensuring good governance, especially in
improving accountability and transparency and tempering corruption, thus helping spur growth. There is
also a perception of too much discretion in the lower courts. The Project will help to limit any tendency
toward corrupt practices, especially in the subordinate courts, by enhancing the transparency and
accountability of the court system. This will be done by improved case management and court
administration, supported by modem management information systems (CMIS).
(iii) The efficiency and effectiveness of courts is affected by a growing backlog of cases, which partly
results from lack of adequate number of courtrooms. In many of the districts, two or three judges
sometimes share the same court room, which effectively means that some judges use only one-half or
one-third of their time dispensing justice. The coulrt infrastructure component of the project will help
mitigate this problem, thus improving the efficiency of the system.
- 21 -



(b)    Improved access to justice for targeted poverty reduction
(i) A weak judicial system that raises economic barriers essentially denies access to the poor and other
vulnerable groups. By providing legal aid and alternative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms, the project
will help close an important (economic) gap that currently exists between the more affluent members of
society, who can absorb the costs of a slow, ponderous and expensive litigation system, and the
underprivileged, who cannot.
(ii) Greater access to justice may not always be a social good, or put another way, reducing the demand for
legal services may be a valid objective to pursue. The case management reform program, the heart of the
project, has been designed to reduce pressure on the formal court system. This component has a clear
focus on increasing mediation and alternative dispute resolution as a means to lower the caseload burden of
the formal court system, thus reducing the demands on the formal court system, and lowering the cost of
cases for the poor. However, the number of business-related cases can be expected to grow with the
growth of the economy and the private sector. While many of these cases will be settled out of court
through better ADRlmediation mechanisms, many will remain in the formal system because of the nature of
the cases. This means in general there will still be an increase in cheaper and more consensual access to
justice, which is one of the objectives of the Project. For these cases, the legal aid component will
strengthen the existing system so as to improve the legal aid system that already exists.
The complete judicial and legal reforms, as reflected in the Strategy Paper, will be a long-term (possibly
10- to 15-year) program. The current Project of US$43.6 million (IDA US$30.6 million) focuses on
priorities highlighted in the Strategy Paper that can be realistically implemented in six years. To determine
total project cost, several scenarios were analyzed and the most sustainable one chosen. In the
infrastructure component, only 21 out of 64 district courts will be targeted, most of which will rehabilitate
existing court buildings or vertically expand them to increase the available space in District courts. Given
the nature and geographical dispersion of the Project, the total cost compares favorably with other judicial
reform projects the Bank has undertaken.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
For reasons discussed in the economic assessment, the financial returns on the Project investment cannot be
easily quantified but are expected to be considerable. A critical financial impact of the Project will be to
reduce the cost of litigation for all strata of society. The magnitudes of IDA and other financial support for
the sub-projects were derived from estimates of the amount and types of advisory services, training
activities, and associated cost items needed to achieve the intended amount of capacity building in the
designated agencies, and the minimum expenditure needed for court renovation and some essential new
infrastructure, i.e., the JATI. The budgeting, accounting, and reporting systems, as well as the capacity of
the MOL have been reviewed and a set of activities identified to upgrade capacity. The expenditure plan
over the six project years is given in Annex, 5, and details on the Financial Management and
Disbursement in Annex 6.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the Project stems from the use of public investment funds for implementing reforms
and building physical infrastructure. This is justified by the general "public welfare" characteristic of
Project outputs and the positive impact it will have on governance. The budgetary impact of the Project
during implementation and in its operational phase is minimal, and the Project's fiscal impact is considered
sustainable. In addition to IDA financing, GOB funding of about US$8.66 million equivalent, CIDA grant
funding of about US$2.0 million equivalent, and DANIDA grant funding of about US$2.38 million
- 22 -



equivalent, would be available for implementation of the Project. GOB funding will include financing of
Project costs related to operation and maintenance (O&M) through the life of the Project on a declining
basis (year 1: 100%; year 2: 80%, year 3: 60%, year 4: 40%, year 5: 20% and year 6: 0%).
3. Technical:
The Project components are technically sound and viable. The program design is comprehensive and
detailed. Institutional capacity building, reform of processes, infonnation technology designs, and social
communications and participation programs are part of Project tasks. A key factor will be the training of
local staff in all technical aspects of Project design and implementation. The information technology
systems would be user friendly and easy to maintain. The Project design places a premium on the technical
quality of the advice, training, infrastructure, and technology provided under the Project for which the
GOB will engage the services of suitable experts.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The MOL, SC and JATI will be responsible for executing their respective components, which in turn will
be coordinated and facilitated through the MOL. PWD will, however, implement the Works component
under the Project, in close consultation with the different entities. The District Judges in the Project
Districts will play leadership roles in case management and improving court administration.
4.2 Project management:
Overall project management will be the responsibility of the MOL. Responsibilities include coordination
of all project interventions and providing necessary support services, i.e., procurement of goods and
services, financial control, monitoring of project activities, preparation of annual work plans, and reporting
on the status of project implementation. The infrastructure component of the project will be implemented
by PWD in coordination with MOL and consultation with the project entities. Because of the size of the
project, MOL has designated one of its officials as Project Director. There will be up to three other
officials from MOL who will assist the Project Director with implementation. The project implementation
capacity of MOL and other entities will be further strengthened through the provision of technical advisory
consultants, and consultants for strengthening financial management, procurement, monitoring, evaluation,
and building public awareness. Two MOL officials have already undertaken basic procurement training
and now have adequate knowledge of Bank processes. In addition, one fixed-term Financial Management
Specialist will be recruited to satisfy the requirement of having adequate financial management and
procurement capacity. The General Procurement Notice for the project has been published in the
Development Business of the United Nations (Issue Number 526, January 2000). The Specific
Procurement Notice for two critical groups of consultants: (a) provide technical advice for coordination
and implementation of judicial reforms, and (b) implementing caseload management and court
administration reforms, have also been published in Development Business. The Terms of Reference
(TOR) for the two consultant contacts have been prepared by MOL and incorporated in Borrowers Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). The GOB is well advanced in the process for selecting these consultants. The
first year procurement plan has already been prepared by the Borrower and discussed with IDA. These
have also been reflected in the Borrower's PIP.
- 23 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
Both the MOL and PWD have only limited experience with IDA-financed procurement. Four MOL staff
have received formal training: one for goods in Turin, Italy and the other two for works in Hyderabad,
India. However, since they do not have practical experience on procurement of goods and works, there is
some risk. To mitigate this risk, the services of an individual consultant will be procured as required. In
addition to this consultant, MOL has asked for technical assistance to ensure the quality of civil works.
The Project will support this technical assistance. There will be separate procurement core team (PCT) in
MOL and PWD. PWD has recently executed one works contract under the Health and Population
Program Project (HPPP). While PWD has long experince in Works procurement following GOB
procedures, it will need to be trained in the new IDA requirements for contract implementation to better
handle the large number of works under the project. PWD has asked for initial technical assistance in the
area of architectural and structural designs and preparation of bidding documents. The Project will support
technical assistance to PWD for these lirnited services. In addition to the technical assistance, the Project
will support formal training for PWD staff on procurement of works.
To mitigate risks, the Project will provide training of the designated officials in Bank-funded procurement
and also will provide resouces for hiring procurement specialists as consultants (whose TOR will be agreed
with IDA) . The following actions have been agreed by the Borrower for the creation and functioning of the
Project Core Team (PCT) at MOL and PWD, for further streamlining and processing of contracts:
(a) MOL has agreed, for procurement of goods and services, to: (i) designate one official at the level of
deputy secretary/senior assistant secretary and supporting staff, which has been done, and (ii) select a
Procurement Specialist conversant with IDA procurement policies and procedures by March 31, 2001;
(b) PWD has assigned staff from its existing human resources to form a PCT at Headquarters, with
one Superintending Engineer (Head of Works Core Team), one Executive Engineer, two
Sub-Divisional Engineers, one Accounts Officer (Divisional Accountant), two Accountants, two
drivers and two messengers;
(c) PWD has initiated the selection of consultants (contract # S-19) for JATI and consultants (contract
# S-18) for courts by November 9, 2000;
(c) necessary training of PCT members, and other officials involved in procurement, will be completed
within the first year after the project becomes effective.
4.4 Financial management issues:
(See Annex 6)
(a) An assessment was made of MOL's and PWD's capacity to meet the Bank's financial management
requirements. The accounting, reporting, and intemal control system in the MOL, meets Banks minimum
financial management requirements under the Project. However, to cater to project specific financial
management requirements more efficiently and effectively, it has been agreed that additional staff will be
appointed and a comprehensive Financial Management Manual will be prepared by incorporating various
elements of Project financial management system from PIP and accounting system will be computerized.
On the other hand, the system in PWD was found adequate to meet reporting and monitoring requirements.
However, further improvement is necessary in PWD to meet project specific FM requirements. The
additional improvement in MOL and PWD will be considered through a TA.
(b) MOL has agreed to hire a Financial Management Expert (FME) as a consultant in the Ministry to
further strengthen financial management capacity of the MOL. In addition to operationalizing, developing,
- 24 -



and updating the financial management system of the Project, the FME will also explore ways to
mainstream the expertise developed during Project implementation into MOL's financial management
structure. Agreement also has been reached that MOL would appoint one additional accountant from the
GOB pool and one short-term accountant from the private sector to help FME to develop the requisite
financial management capacity, the objective being to integrate this capacity into MOL's financial
management system. The Government has agreed to appoint the accountants by April 30, 2001. PWD,
through the MOU, already designated one accounts officer and two accountants from its pool to work on
financial management for the Civil Works component.
(c ) All Project funds would flow through MOL and PWD. MOL and PWD would disburse IDA funds on
the recommendation of various implementing agencies. PWD would manage Project funds for the Civil
Works component of the Project. Co-financing arrangements will include CIDA and Danida funds through
a parallel financing arrangement.
(d) To facilitate project implementation and to make timely payment of IDA's share of expenditures to
contractors, suppliers, and consultants and others, the Borrower will open and maintain two Convertible
Taka Special Accounts (CONTASA) in a commercial bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA.
The MOL and PWD will have access to and manage the respective Special Accounts. Disbursement will be
made directly from the Special Accounts.
(e) This is the first IDA financed project under MOL. C & AG will audit the account and financial
statements of the Project, and reports will be submitted to IDA within six months following the close of
fiscal year.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No significant environmental impacts are expected as a result of the proposed Project. Approximately
US$20 million is allocated to upgrade court infrastructure. This will include construction of a new JATI,
and renovation, rehabilitation and upgrading of 21 District Courts.
To address potential minor local environmental impacts that might be caused by this construction, a
Guidelines for the Enviromnental Management of Court Building Construction has been developed (Annex
2A). The Guidelines establish environmental principles, outlines procedures for environmental screening,
design and supervision, and indicates concerns to be addressed during design, construction and operation of
the facilities. The Guidelines require that if any major environmental issues are identified during screening,
further public consultation will be held to ensure that these concems are adequately addressed in the
designs. The Guidelines will be incorporated in the Terms of Reference for the Design and Supervision
Consultants, and elements will be included in an environmental manual which will formn part of the bidding
documents for construction contracts. The MOU between MOL and PWD for the execution of the
infrastructure component includes the enviromnental guidelines and requires adherence to them in any
construction work to be done under the Project.
A separate environmental issue relates to the training ofjudges to be appointed to the newly established
Environmental Courts, created under the Environmental Court Act, 2000. Design and implementation of
this training will be addressed through the World Bank implemented component of the Ministry of
Environment and Forest's Sustainable Environment Management Program, in close coordination with the
DANIDA supported training plan for the JATI.
- 25 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
N/A
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
N/A
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Data indicates that while increasingly large numbers of women are willing to seek enforcement of their
legal rights, their access to the justice system is very limited. The high cost of litigation, both direct and
indirect, is a serious impediment for them and for the other underprivileged groups. The Government tries
to help them by providing limited amounts of legal aid funds to each district for their use, but even these
remain largely unspent. This is because the vulnerable groups who are intended to be beneficiaries of
those funds are not aware of their availability, and have little knowledge of the system for accessing the
funds, which is both cumbersome and forbidding. The Government has recently adopted a new law setting
up the National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO) under which the state-sponsored legal aid system is
expected to improve.
Another major impediment is the lack of an effective altemative (or consensual) dispute resolution system.
In rural areas, the Panchayat Shalish system is still in vogue. Under this system, various forms of shalish
(mediation/conciliation/arbitration) are available in the villages, but these do not necessarily get conducted
by people chosen for their wisdom and integrity; rather, in many instances, these are perceived as tools for
exploitation in the hands of the rural power structure. Yet villagers, particularly the poor, involved in
disputes are usually drawn to shalish because they lack a better altemative, and because they cannot afford
the expense of the formal legal system, and feel intimidated by law enforcement agencies. To improve
access to justice for underprivileged groups, some NGOs are providing legal awareness and literacy
services and have developed a fair, transparent and inclusive shalish and legal aid system that is more
pro-women and pro-poor.
The participatory preparation phase and specific studies on gender and other social issues indicated that
there is a need to raise the level of gender-sensitivity in the judiciary and to take a targeted approach to
improve legal awareness and literacy and increase access to justice for the poor, women and other
underprivileged. The Bangladesh National Action Plan for the Advancement of Women (1998), for
instance, has identified a number of possible reforms in these areas: provision of legal literacy; raising
gender sensitivity within the judicial system; increasing the number of women in the judiciary with the
goal to achieve gender parity; integration of women's human rights concepts in all training for law
enforcement authorities; provision of separate women's courts both for criminal and civil litigation; and
- 26 -



provision of women-friendly facilities in the courts. The Strategy Paper echoes this agenda, and a
substantial portion of it is reflected in the Project.
The social development outcomes of the Project therefore include improved access to justice for the poor,
women and other underprivileged groups; increased legal awareness of the population; increased
representation of women in the judicial system; and improved transparency and "user-friendliness" of the
legal and judicial system. The performance indicators for this component will be a functioning and
effective National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO), increased number of shalish facilitated by NGOs and
increased legal awareness on the part of the underprivileged.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The primary beneficiaries of this project are the poor, women, Qther vulnerable groups, and the business
community. To identify the key stakeholders and their needs, a phased Social Assessment (SA) was
carried out as part of the project preparation process. The preparation team initiated the process by
conducting a stakeholder analysis for understanding the social and institutional context, especially to
identify key stakeholder groups and their interests (positive or negative) in and influence over the legal and
judicial capacity building project. Based on the stakeholder analysis, the social assessment was conducted
by organizing nationwide workshops and conducting some key studies. The objectives of SA were to
understand critical social, gender and institutional factors that impede the legal and judicial system; and
also to identify gaps in knowledge and assess needs of socially excluded groups. In addiiton, stakeholder
participation during project preparation facilitated social mobilization and public awareness on key legal
and judicial issues.
The consultant reports and countrywide consultations with the judiciary and other stakeholders were the
basis of the Strategy Paper for judicial and legal reform in Bangladesh. Subsequently, four workshops
were conducted in four divisional headquarters to validate the Strategy, and one stakeholder workshop
was organized in Dhaka to provide feedback on regional consultations and finalize the Strategy.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The MOL will establish a Consultative Group (CG) consisting of representatives of key stakeholder
groups for periodic consultation with NGO and civil society organizations. Further, NGOs, legal aid
organizations, and women's organizations will be involved in the implementation of the project by
providing public awareness, legal literacy and shalish services, working in close collaboration with local
government institutions, women's groups, civil society organizations, communities and the beneficiaries.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Under this project, steps will be taken to close the gender gap and enhance the level of gender sensitivity in
the judiciary. Affirmative action will be taken to improve women's representation on the bench and bar.
Meanwhile, for the first time, a woman judge has been appointed to the High Court. Judges and their staff
will be given training in gender sensitivity. One of the project components is Improving Access to Justice.
This component consists of two separate activities: (a) increase access and coverage of legal aid and (b)
promote public awareness, legal literacy, and ADR (shalish) at the grassroots level. Activity (b) will be
carried out by the NLAO and District Legal Aid Committees, comprising representatives from both
govemment and civil society. A study under this project will be completed within the first year to develop
a scheme for strengthening NLAO and its district committees, so as to make them more effective and
accessible to the underprivileged and the poor. Legal literacy, legal awareness and shalish (activity (b))
will be carried out by qualified NGOs. MOL will conduct an assessment of NGO capacity on service
- 27 -



delivery of legal literacy and shalish, which will porvide the baseline for this project. The Small Causes
Courts will be strengthened and revitalized and the special procedures already prescribed for small causes
will be strictly followed.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Baseline survey data of the project will be gathered within the first nine months after effectiveness on the
accessibility and efficiency of the small causes courts and family courts; the effectiveness of the shalish
system as administered by NGOs; the availability and constraint of existing government legal aid; and
awareness of targeted groups of legal and human rights under programs run by NGOs. Periodic surveys
and social assessments will be conducted by MOL under the project to monitor the progress of social
development outcomes. Furthermore, a feedback mechanism is being put in place through the Consultative
Group to receive stakeholder input on the outcomes of the reforms. In addition, a Court Management
Information System (CMIS) and automation will be established to make the monitoring system more
transparent and user friendly.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
For the Environmental Assessment, see section above.
- 28 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The success and sustainability of the project will depend largely on the continuing commitment of the
Government and the Supreme Court and the support from civil society -- of which there are ample signs.
The project is an integral part of the country's long-term strategy for judicial reform, which has evolved
over a period of time through a highly participatory process. The Government and the Supreme Court have
been in the forefront of that process and responsible largely for driving it. At every opportunity, the
Government has made its commitment clear to the strategy that resulted from that process, most recently in
its Policy Letter to IDA, September 19, 2000 (see Annex 11). The participation of other stakeholders,
including the subordinate judiciary, the bar, academia, and civil society representatives (NGOs, etc.) has
been secured in a number of ways. A representative cross-section of stakeholders were involved in carrying
out the diagnostic and other studies, which culminated in many of the reform proposals reflected in the
Strategy Paper. These and other proposals were subjected to a closer examination by expanded
representative groups in workshops and other forums held in local and metropolitan areas throughout the
country. These forums served as important sounding boards: the local point of view was allowed to be
brought to bear on the reform proposals, which could then be tempered in important ways to reflect the
experience on the ground. Different shades of political opinion were also represented at these forums, and
the Government has kept the line open to all political leaders not in the current Administration. This high
degree of participation at every stage of project preparation, and its permeation to the larger constituencies
represented by the direct participants, has led to a rapid rise in public awareness of, and the subsequent
development of a national consensus on the proposed reforms. This consensus transcends the interests of
any individual government.
This participatory process will continue during project implementation. The focus will be on: the continued
participation ofjudges, lawyers, and other stakeholders in project development; the development of a sound
coordination and administrative framework to govem the working relationship between the Law Ministry
and the Supreme Court; and the development of capacity for regular monitoring and evaluation of project
activities, and for taking immediate remedial actions where required. An Oversight Committee comprising
the Chief Justice, the Law Minister, and the Chairman, Law Commission will give policy directions on the
reforms, and a Consultative Group, broadly representative of civil society and other stakeholders, will be in
place to provide continued input.
Future sustainability of the reforms will be ensured in other ways. The reforms will initially be undertaken
in five Districts and the Supreme Court before being replicated in 16 more Districts: this phased approach
will help minimize the risk of failure. Additionally, once the reforms have taken hold and yielded benefits
under the project, they will become self-perpetuating. Once the litigating public has experienced the results
of effective and efficient dispensation of justice, it will not be prepared to give them up easily. Once good
procedural laws, rules, and practices have been put in place, once an adequate number of well trained
judges have been appointed, once performance standards and ethical codes have been firmly established to
regulate and evaluate judicial conduct, and once the litigating public has been made aware of all these
things, it will become very difficult to reverse the process and to try to restore the status quo ante. And once
the judges (and their staff) and lawyers have undergone an attitudinal change and come to accept the
reforms, they will help institutionalize them. Once the Government has seen the need for continuing and
adequate financial support for the judiciary, this will become an integral part of its planning and budgetary
system.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
:          Risk;0777777705770 lRisk Ra*ing     Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Loss of commitment of the present or new    M         1. On-going participatory process, both during
leadership of the Supreme Court or GOB                preparation and also during implementation of
to refonns.                                          the project. There will be a Consultative Group,
comprising representatives from civil society,
thereby ensuring stakeholder participation
during implementation.
2. Reforms will be tried and tested in five Stage
I Districts before being replicated in 16 Stage II
Districts. Any visible success in the pilot
districts will be key to continuing strong
commitment of the stakeholders.
3. In addition, mid-term review with the
Supreme Court and GOB, workshops for the
civil society, judges, lawyers, and awareness
measures through a media campaign will ensure
continuing participation and lead to renewal
during implementation.
4. Strong support from the Oversight Committee
and the Consultative Group, the latter with
participation from the bench, bar, and civil
society.
Institutional changes fail because of       S         Certain design features would significantly
capacity constraint in Supreme Court,                 minimize this risk, including implementation of
MOL, the Law Commission, and JATI                     reforms in Stages over a six-year period,
starting with two Districts and the Supreme
Court, then three more Districts, and then
replicating them in 16 more Districts in the last
three years of the project. Other design features
include institutional training, support for
establishment of planning and IT functions to
meet long-term needs, and technical assistance
to MOL, JATI, Supreme Court, the District
Courts, and the Law Commission to meet their
long and short term needs.
- 30 -



Lack of acceptability of the reform           S         Assigning a leadership role to District Judges in
measures, especially those related to case              executing case management and court
management and court administration by                  administration reforms and participation of other
the judges, lawyers and the court                      judges, court staff, lawyers and court service
administrative staff.                                   consumers will ensure continuity of
commitment. Proper training and re-training,
workshops, awareness building measures will be
undertaken right from the outset. To increase its
initial acceptability, changes affecting Court
administration and case management will be
implemented in the Supreme Court and in five
selected District Courts, beginning first with two
of those Districts. The strong endorsement of the
Supreme Court leadership, the political
leadership, and leadership of the bars, will also
help mitigate the risk. The involvement of the
Bar in project preparation and during
implementation will also help mitigate this risk.
A communication strategy will be in place to
further mitigate this risk.
- 31 -



From Components to Outputs
MOL Project staff's ability to coordinate   M         MOL's implementation capacity will be
and facilitate implementation of the                  strengthened, when necessary, through hiring of
project, including proper handling of                 technical and specialized staff, including
procurement, proves inadequate and leads              financial management and procurement
to slow disbursement.                                 specialists, and provision of project related
training. MOL has agreed to hire a Financial
Management Expert before project
effectiveness, to further strengthen its financial
management capacity. One project staff has
already been given some training in Bank
procurement processes. MOL will be given a
strong facilitation and coordination role, and for
this purpose will establish a direct working
relationship with the project entities, to whom it
will have unhindered access. When necessary,
the apex body of the project, comprising the
Chief Justice, the Law Minister, and the
Chairman, Law Commission, can be accessed
by the PD and others to help solve any policy or
procurement related problems, and any other
implementation bottlenecks. For IDA, this
project will be primarily managed, which would
mean intensive supervision from the field could
be provided, including quick formal and
informal technical advice to the client to help
minimize the risk. To complement this,
headquarters assistance also will be called on to
mitigate risks.
Counterpart funds will not remain           M         This is a high priority project for the GOB. As
adequate.                                             such, it has strong support at the highest level of
the Government including the President, the
Prime Minister, MOL, but also in the Ministries
of Finance and Planning. Even so, constant
follow-up will be maintained with the
participating ministries to ensure timely flow of
counterpart funds.
Because project imnplementation is being    M         This risk is being mitigated by hiring Financial
mainstrearned Financial Management is                 Management Specialist before effectiveness of
not ring fenced and so has risks regarding           the project.
projects financial reporting.
Overall Risk Rating                         S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None identified.
- 32 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Consultant contracts have been signed with the Reforms Advisory Consultants (RAC), including a
Resident Legal Adviser, a Deputy Resident Legal Adviser and other Technical Advisers, and with the Case
Management/Court Administration Consultants (CMAC). A financial expert and an accountant should
have been appointed.
(b) The Project Conept Paper (PCP) has been approved by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (ECNEC).
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) The Project will be carried out in accordance with the Government's Policy letter (Attachment 11),
dated September 19, 2000, and in two stages. Under the first stage, lasting about thirty-six (36) months
from commencement, the Supreme Court and the five (5) Stage I Districts will be covered. Within this
stage, two (2) Stage I Districts will be taken up first and project reforms will be tested there before being
replicated in the other Stage I Districts. Under the second stage, lasting about thirty-six (36) months from
completion of the first stage, the sixteen (16) Stage II Districts will be taken up, and project reforms
previously tried out in Stage I Districts will be replicated there. The court upgrading and
repair/maintenance program will be similarly phased in the Stage I and Stage II Districts.
(b) A financial management system, including records and accounts, will be maintained and financial
statements will be prepared in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations,
resources and expenditures related to the Project. A time-bound action plan will be carried out to strengthen
this system in various ways acceptable to the Association by June 30, 2002. Meanwhile, a Financial
Management Expert and an Accountant and other financial management staff will be specially assigned to
the Project by Effectiveness.
(c) The country's National Competitive Bidding procedures will be improved for purposes of the Project as
described in Annex 6, in order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency, and broad consistency with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
(d) Withdrawal of Credit proceeds, with respect of payments made to the National Legal Aid
Organization (NLAO) will be subject to the fund being operationalized in accordance with
recommendations of the NLAO study financed under the Project, and for expenditures during any FY, will
be subject to the establishment of evidence satisfactory to the Association that at least one-half of the
financing provided by the Borrower from its own resources for NLAO for such FY has been drawn down.
(e) Project oversight and stakeholder consultation, through the Oversight Committee, the Supreme Court
Implementation Committee, the Experts Group, and the Consultative Group, representing a broad spectrum
of civil society, will be carried out throughout the life of the Project.
(f) Adequate policies and procedures will be maintained to enable the Project to be monitored and evaluated
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association. (For such indicators, as
currently agreed, see Annex 1.) A mid-term review of the Project will be carried out no later han June
2004.
- 33 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Ol 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
OI 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
_~~Q
Mohsin Alikhan                    Marilou Jane D. Ugr pederick Thomas Temple
Te,m Leader                       Sector Manager             J       Country Manager
-Aw(Aft2 m  4X1'4
Akhtar Hamid
Co-Team Leader
-34 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
_           _     9 ;        .   In,dicator. -Aon              g &Ev'ati-n    Critical Mwu        _p
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sectorl country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1.Support private sector-led   1. Gradually improving  *Periodic public opinion  *GOB remains committed to
growth through an improved  opinion of the business    survey, and user surveys of   private sector growth
business environment,      community regarding the     business chambers and legal  strategy.
stimulated by judicial reforms. effectiveness, efficiency, and    aid NGOs.      *Both the Executive and the
service delivery standards of  *Media reports; views and  Judiciary continue to be
the judicial system.        opinions expressed by think   committed to reforms
tanks etc.                 leading to institutional
*ESW reports (occasional).    capacity building.
* Sustained political and
macroeconomic stability.
2. Improvement in governance 2. Gradually improving            Do                      Do
through institutional capacity  public opinion regarding the
building, resulting from   effectiveness, efficiency, and
judicial reforms.          service delivery standards of
the judicial system, resulting
from institutional capacity
building.
- 35 -



Project Development        Outcome /impact            Project reports:           (frorn Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
1. To improve the legal and   Compared to baseline,   *Benchmark survey report   *Continued GOB
ljudicial environment for  increased user satisfaction  prepared at the beginning of  commitmnent to reform.
economic activity.         with:                       the Project, and periodic
* the fairness and timeliness   updates of the data.  eContinued participation of
of court processes and                                stakeholders (Law
enforcement decisions;   *Progress reports/Bank       Commission, MOL, judges,
*the availability of altemative  supervision reports.  court staff and lawyers, etc.)
dispute resolution (ADR)                              in project implementation,
mechanisms; and           eMid-term review report.    and their continued support
* accessibility of legal                               for the reforms.
information.             *ICR.
2. To improve access to    2.1 Compared to baseline,             -Do-            *Continued GOB
justice, especially for women  increased user satisfaction                         commitment to reform.
and the poor               with:
*  the accessibility and                            *Continued effective
efficiency of the small                           participation of stakeholders
causes courts;                                    (judges, court staff, legal aid
*  the ADR [including                                NGOs) in project
shalish] system as                                implementation and their
administered by legal                             continued support of the
aid NGOs;                                         reforms.
* the utilization of legal
aid;
*  the mechanism for
improving public
awareness of legal rights
under programs run by
legal aid NGOs.
- 36 -



1 '   '; ''   ' .  ._  orMQfI & gv#fuptlon ,    2llt AWnPO
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Institutional capacity  1.1.1 Case classification  *Baseline survey reports   *Business persons will take
strengthened for           completed by the Supreme    prepared at the beginning of  advantage of the reforms and
administering speedy and cost Court by the middle of Year 2. the Project, and periodic  use the reformed court
effective justice, in a                                updates of the data.        system.
user-friendly environment.   1.1.2 Modem Case         *Supreme Court's Annual    *ADR mechanisms are widely
1.1 Timeliness improved.   Management initiated: (a) in   Reports.                 accepted as a more
the Supreme Court and two   *Progress reports/Bank     appropriate means of settling
Stage I Districts by the end of  supervision reports.  disputes.
Year 1; and effective in all   eMid-term review report.    eLaws introducing the
Stage I Districts by end of    6ICR.                   reforms are adequate for
Year 3; and (b) effective in                           their purposes.
the other Project Districts by                        eJudges and court personnel
the end of Year 6.                                     will acquire the necessary
skills needed to implement
1.1.3 Percentage increase in                           the reforms.
number of disputes settled
through ADR (arbitration!
mediation/shalish): in the
Stage I Districts, by the end of
Year 3, and in the other
Project Districts, by the end of
Year 6.
1.1.4 Percentage increase in
judge's time for judicial work:
(a) in the Stage I Districts by
the end of Year 3; and (b) in
the remaining Project Districts
by the end of Year 6.
1.1.5 Percentage increase in
the clearance rate [number of
disposed cases! number of
cases filed] per judge: (a) in
the Supreme Court and the in
the Stage I Districts by the end
of Year 3; and (b) in the
remaining Project Districts by
the end of Year 6.
1.1.6 Percentage reduction in
the case backlog: (a) in the
Supreme Court and in the
Stage I Districts by the end of
Year 3; and (c) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Year 6.
- 37 -



1.2. Other efficiency gains    1.2.1 Automated Court             Do                         Do
made.                      Management Information
System (MIS) operational: (a)
in the Supreme Court and the
Stage I Districts by the end of
Year 3; and (b) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Year 6.
1.2.2 Preparation of a database
of the complete Bangladesh
code and all reported Supreme
Court rulings in digital form
by Year 4.
1.2.3 Numbers of District
Court judges and personnel
trained in case management
and court administration and
in the use of technology under
the new training plan: (a) in
the Stage I Districts by the end
of Year 3; and (b) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Year 6.
1.2.4 Increase in numbers of
judgments being written by
using technology: (a) in the
Supreme Court and the Stage I
Districts by the end of Year 3;
and (b) in the other Project
Districts by the end of Year 6.
1.2.5 Numbers of court
houses upgraded by the end of
Years 3 and 6, respectively.
1.2.6 Restructured Registrar's
office prepares judiciary's
budgetary and development
needs by the end of Year 4.
- 38 -



1.3 Transparency and      1.3.1. A refined Code of               Do                         Do
accountability enhanced.  Conduct for judges published
by the end of Year 3.
1.3.2. Case management and
court administration
performance standards
implemented: (a) in the
Supreme Court and the Stage I
Districts by the end of Year 3;
and (b) in the other Project
Districts by the end of Year 6.
1.3.3 Numbers of District
Court judges and personnel
trained in judicial ethics and
performance standards under
the new training plan: (a) in
the Stage I Districts by the end
of Year 3; and (b) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Years 6.
1.3.4 Publication of Supreme
Court's annual statistical and
performance report on the
judiciary commenced by the
end of Year 3.
- 39 -



2. Access to justice for the    2.1. Percentage increase in  * Baseline survey report    *  Effective participation of
underprivileged increased.    numbers of persons using    prepared at the            NGOs in project
ADR mechanisms (including      beginning of the Project,    implementation.
shalish) sponsored by select   and periodic updates of   *  Continued Government
legal aid NGOs: (a) in the     data.                      support for civil society
Stage I Districts by the end of   *  Progress reports/Bank  participation.
Year 3; and (b) in the other   supervision reports.    *  Wide acceptance by the
Project Districts by the end of   * Mid-term review report.  public of
Year 6.                     *  ICR.                       NGO-sponsored
ADR/legal literacy
2.2 Percentage increase in                                programs.
numbers of persons using the                           *  Wide
GOB-sponsored legal aid                                   awareness/acceptance of
fund: (a) in the Stage I                                  Government sponsored
Districts by the end of Year 3;                           legal aid fund.
and (b) in the other Project                           *  Wide public acceptance
Districts by the end of Year 6.                           of small cause courts as
a forum of convenience
2.3. Percentage increase in                               for the underprivileged.
numbers of persons using
small cause courts: (a) in the
Stage I Districts, by the end of
Year 3; and (b) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Year 6.
2.4. Percentage increase in
numbers of persons
participating in gender
awareness and/or legal
literacy/public information
programs sponsored by select
legal aid NGOs: (a) in the
Stage I Districts by the end of
Year 3; and (b) in the other
Project Districts by the end of
Year 6.
3. Institutional capacity for   3. 1 Number of key reform  * Baseline survey report    *  Effective participation of
legal reform enhanced.    proposals (including draft      prepared at the            the institutions in efforts
laws):                         beginning of the Project,    to strengthen them.
(a) produced by the Law        and periodic updates of   *  Continued commitment
Commission (using its new      data.                      of the institutions to
work methodology and open    * Annual Law                 reform.
participatory process); and    Commission Reports.
(b) converted to draft      * Periodic MOL reports.
legislation by MOL's Drafting   * Progress reports/Bank
Wing in Years 3, 4 and 5.      supervision reports.
a Mid-term review report.
-   ICR
-40 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Judicial Capacity      US$ 35.62                 Project progress reports; MOL The judges and staff in the
Building                                             and IDA supervision and   Supreme Court and District
1.1 Improvement of Court    US$ 1.32                 disbursement reports; ICR.   Courts want to implement the
Administration                                                                 case management and court
1.2 Improvement of Case   US$ 4.03                  Project progress reports;  administration reforms.
Management                                           MOL/PWD/JATI and IDA
1.3 Installation of CMIS  US$ 3.19                  supervision and disbursement The judges and staff will be
System                                               reports; ICR.             willing to use technology as a
1.4 Provision of          US$ 5.26                                             management tool.
Training/Upgrading of                                Project progress reports;
Training Facilities                                  MOLIPWD and IDA           Quality training is provided
1.5 Provision of other Human US$ 0.83               supervision and disbursement
Resource Needs                                       reports; ICR.             PWD has adequate
1.6 Upgrading of Court    US$ 20.99                                           implementation and
Infrastructure                                                                 supervision skills for
implementing the
infrastructure component.
2. Improvement of Access to US$ 3.44                 Project progress reports;  People will find the courts
Justice; Promoting Legal                             MOL and IDA supervision    more accessible.
Literacy and Public                                  and disbursement reports; ICR
Awareness                                                                      ADR mechanisms will be
2.1 Improvement of Access to US$ 1.91                                          increasingly used.
Justice
2.2 Communication Strategy  US$ 1.52
3. Legal Reform Capacity   US$ 2.10                  Project progress reports  The LC and MOL Drafting
BuDding                                                                        Wing officials willing to
Improvement of Institutional                                                   undertake reforms.
Framework
4. Preparation of Future  USS 0.87                   Project progress reports; and  The future reforms will
Reforms                                              IDA supervision reports.  strengthen and sustain the
reforms implemented under
the project, especially those
relating to a strengthened and
independent judiciary.
5. Project Implementation   US$ 1.60                 Project progress reports MOL, The officials responsible for
and Related Services                                 PWD, and IDA supervision   implementation in different
and disbursement reports.    entities under the project will
be proactive and will either
have or acquire necessary
knowledge on rules and
guidelines relating to project
implementation.
-41 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project is to assist Bangladesh in: (a) improving the enviromnent for doing business
by making the civil justice system more supportive of economic activity through enhanced efficiency,
effectiveness and accountability; and (b) improving access to justice, particularly for women and the poor.
These objectives will be achieved through measures to reform, reorganize, modernize and overcome
physical constraints implemented under the project components and sub-components described below, for
which IDA financed technical assistance and investments will be available. The resulting improvement in
the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the civil justice system is expected to have a direct positive
impact on govemance in the country.
Project Scope
The Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Governments Legal and Judicial Capacity Building
Program (the Program), is designed to carry out selected policy and institutional reforms set out in the
Government's Strategy Paper. These will be supported by investments in physical infrastructure and
computerization, limited under the first phase project to the Supreme Court and the Project Districts (these
being the 21 Districts selected from the country's 64 Districts and specified in Attachment 1 hereto). The
project reforms will be field-tested in the five 'Stage I Districts' (also specified in Attachment 1) before
being expanded to the rest of the Project Districts, and the court infrastructure and computerization
program will be suitably phased. Also, a variety of measures of a type normally within the control of the
local jurisdiction, and not requiring legislative action on a national scale, will be tested in the Stage I
Districts to improve timeliness and accessibility. These measures will concentrate on early and measurable
outcomes, which will be used to temper, supplement or otherwise modify the proposed reforms. All policy
and institutional reforms and physical and other investments under the Project will be undertaken
substantially in accordance with the policies, principles and proposals set forth in the Government's
Strategy Paper.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$35.62 million
Judicial Capacity Building
Sub-Component 1 - Improvement of Court Administration
(1) Measures will be taken to reduce delays in bringing cases to a conclusion and to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of the courts generally. To these ends, structures will be put in place to enable
the judges to devote more time to trial work and less to administrative duties, and to modernize court
administration generally in the process. At the national level, the Registrar Office in the Supreme Court,
which will be further strengthened, will be responsible for keeping the judiciary's needs under continuous
review to ensure its efficiency and effectiveness. As part of this process, its planning and budgeting
capacity will need to be enhanced. Spending authority within the approved budget should be delegated to
the Registrar Office and to the District Courts. For these and other purposes and before the office systems
-42 -



are automated, the Registrar Office, consisting of some 25 different sections, some of them with
overlapping responsibilities, should be reorganized along functional lines, i.e., case management, planning,
budgeting and financial management, general administration, human resources, and research.
(2) At the district level, to reduce the administrative workload of the District Judge, the administrative
officer and other staff, on whom the judge relies in administrative matters can be upgraded by developing a
career path for them. For this purpose, different office structures will be piloted in the Stage I Districts,
before the ones most suitable are selected for replication in the remainder of the Project Districts, and
eventually throughout the country. As part of this, the District Court's administrative office should be
modernized and will have appropriate and trained staff, e.g., a planning and budgeting officer and a
purchasing and accounting officer, and other customary but also better trained staff, e.g., a court order
clerk, a process/decree officer, and process servers; staff training will be provided for functions where
responsibilities were redefined; office manuals will be developed documenting the new procedures and
standard forms; office space will need to be created adequate for staff, records and equipment; and
technology, including computers and suitable software, with linkage to the Court Management Information
System (CMIS), will be supplied under the project.
Sub-Component 2 - Improvement of Case Management
(1) The findings of the project preparation study point to a number of ways to improve case management.
Court procedures could be streamlined through, e.g. (a) establishing mandatory time limits for processing
cases, backed by a regime of costs and/or other sanctions to discourage non-compliance; (b) the use of a
summary judgment procedures; (c) the elimination of unnecessary procedural steps for, and other hurdles
to, the enforcement of judgments; and (d) the rationalization of the system of appeals, revisions and
injunctions/stay orders. Modem case management techniques could be introduced into the courts, including,
e.g., (a) the formulation and agreement on a case management statement at the outset of the trial; (b) the
establishment and enforcement of a procedural calendar for the life of a case; (c) the early identification of
disputed issues of law and fact; (d) the availability of consensual processes (ADR) aimed at the resolution
of the case other than through a court trial; and (e) ultimately, the establishment of firm dates and rules for
the trial, should a trial be necessary. The judges and their staff could be provided with the tools they need
to promote performance under a strengthened case management system, including: (a) bench-books for
judges, clerical procedural manuals for court room staff, and trial practice manuals for litigating counsels;
(b) standardized legal and administrative forms; and (c) improved courtroom facilities, as well as
technology support, with automated case tracking systems, as part of the CMIS to be installed in the
Supreme Court and the District Courts. Combinations of these and other improvements will be piloted and
the best solutions adopted and applied under the project.
To the extent possible, judges will work within the existing procedural codes to initiate and test modem
case management techniques and altemative dispute resolution (ADR) mechanisms in the Stage I Districts.
To that end, they will become actively involved in setting a time-table for case processing at an early stage
after the filing of a case, and in enforcing that timetable; and they will become conscientious in applying
and enforcing existing procedures and rules relating to case management, time limits, sanctions for default,
and enforcement of decrees, as prescribed, for example, by the CPC and the CROs, the Money Loan
Courts Act, the Small Causes Court Act, the Family Courts Ordinance, and the Bankruptcy Act. If
changes are needed in the rles and procedures to strengthen the case management process, the Supreme
Court's rule-malcing power (under Section 122 of the CPC) could be invoked to bring these about. The
CPC itself would be amended only as a last resort if the outcome of the refonns carried out in the Stage I
Districts warrants it and the Experts Committee so recommends.
- 43 -



(2) A case classification system will be introduced. This will help efforts to rationalize the cause list
system: cases falling in the same category would be set for the same date and before the same judge; and if
all or some cases involve the same point, they would be consolidated by the judge and disposed of at the
same time. Such a system, when made part of the Court Management Information System proposed to be
established under Sub-component 3 below, will greatly assist with case tracking and caseflow management.
By enabling cases to be classified according to age, the system will also facilitate the purge of old pending
cases under Sub-component 3. Initial testing of the system will take place in Stage I Districts. Based on a
tentative classification of cases undertaken, selected courts will be assigned specific types of cases, to
which they will apply existing procedures and rules relating to case processing, time limits, sanction for
default, and enforcement, as prescribed by CPC, the Money Loan Court Act, the Small Cases Court Act,
the Family Court Ordinance, the Civil Rules and Orders, the Bankruptcy Act, and other Acts.
Sub-Component 3 - Installation of a Court Management Information System (CMIS) and
Automation
(1) Judges and their staff in the Supreme Court and the District Courts will be given the technology
they will need to become more efficient and effective. A computerized Management Information
System CMIS will be established, consisting of interrelated components (or modules), as follows: (a) a
case management module, including a case classification and status module, which will facilitate case
filing and monitoring, court case scheduling, court proceedings tracking and caveat matching; (b) a legal
framework module, which will essentially cover two basic sources of updates, namely the Bangladesh
legislative code and the Bangladesh case law (reported Supreme Court rulings) database; and (c) a court
administration module, which will include court inspection, planning and budgeting, transactions,
payments, financial accounts, staff-related information and reporting, statistics applications and records
management. An effective and dependable Local Area Network (LAN) will be developed and provide
access to databases established under the project as well as to the Internet and Email. A standardized
software package will be developed for all courts at the same level. Equipment standards will be
developed. A systems management manual will be prepared and distributed to all users. Training will be
provided, both infonnally (such as under the software development program) and formally (such as under
JATI's computer awareness program). Courtrooms and central administrative office in the selected District
courts will be provided a desktop computer and printer, and a server will be installed in a designated
computer room. The information technology (IT) equipment in the Registrar Office and in each
courtroom in the Supreme Court will be suitably upgraded.
(2) The computerization program will be phased; it will first be carried out in the Supreme Court and then
in the Project Districts, where it will be field-tested in the Stage One Districts before being extended to the
rest of the Project Districts. Before the program commences, as part of case load management, a purge
will be carried out of the pending caseload so as to keep the new automated system free of inactive cases
and to provide an accurate picture of the actual caseload that needs to be dealt with.
Sub-Component 4: Provision of Training(Upgrading of Training Facilities
(1) Subordinate Court judges and their staff will be provided the training needed to become more efficient
and effective. Judges will be trained in traditional substantive and procedural law as well as in the
rudiments of administrative work, case management techniques, performance standards and evaluation
systems, economic law, gender sensitivity, the English language, judgment writing, and computer use.
Other court staff will be trained in administrative work and computer use. The first long-range (four-year)
- 44 -



plan has been drawn up for all such training to be implemented under the project.
(2) For purposes of the new training program, the Judicial Administration Training Institute's (JA TI)
facilities will be augmenteiL Modern teaching methods will be developed and used for the program. The
library holdings will be built up. A new building will be constructed,for which the preliminary designs and
layouts were agreed with the client, consistent with the needs of the new training program. Office and
teaching equipment will be acquired, based on training needs.
(3) To ensure the sustainability of the new training program, JATI's management and funding need to
be placed on a sound footing. Its structure will be changed to shift the focus from administration to
teaching. Most of the training will be given by part-time instructors, but a small core group of full-time
instructors will be established.Intensive training will be provided to the full-time instructors, and suitable
incentive mechanism will be established for them.
(4) Workshops and seminars will be designed and conducted for Supreme Court judges in subjects of
interest to them, including case management techniques, economic law, gender-sensitivity and computer
use. JATI's resources and facilities will be available for these purposes, if needed, and Supreme Court
judges will be invited to attend any JATI programs of interest to them.
Specific Activities under the Trainin, sub-comnonent to be financed by IDA: While IDA ]ands will be
available for constructing the new JATI building and other institutional support, DANIDA funds,
through parallel co-financing, will be available for procuring consultant services for institutional
strengthening of JATI, procurement of computers and teaching tools and office equipment, and local
and external training; DANIDA will implement the training plan in close coordination with IDA.
Sub-Component 5 - Provision of Other Human Resource Development Needs
(1) Under the project District court judges will be provided with the means to maintain the dignity and
stature of the judicial office, including: (a) transportation and telephone facilities, wherever needed; and (b)
special training opportunities, including travel to overseas conferences/seminars; and
(2) Ways and means of regulating court performance at all levels of the judiciary, including: (a) the
introduction of a modem code of conduct for judges; (b) installation of performance standards and
evaluation systems for judges and staff, beginning with trials of such standards in the Stage I Districts; (c)
strengthening the court inspection system; and (d) publication by the Supreme Court of an annual report
and the carrying out user surveys on the state of the courts.
As part of this process the High Court Division is expected to exercise its Constitutional mandate for
superintendance of all courts and tribunals subordinate to it. The District Judge is expected to supervise
judges in his/her district.
Sub-Component 6 - Upgrading of Court Infrastructure
Court houses in the Project Districts will be repaired and/or upgraded so that the judges and their staff can
sit and function in surroundings which are conducive to their work and friendly to the litigating public and
their counsel. The findings of the field survey and facilities inventory of the court infrastructure in said
Districts has been confirmed, and a phased upgrading program will be undertaken, beginning with the five
"Stage One Districts" and then continuing it in the "Stage Two Districts". Besides there is also need for
some renovation work in the Supreme Court building. Most of the works will involve upgrading of existing
- 45 -



buildings and only in very rare and exceptional cases will new structures be erected. Design standards and
specifications have been agreed. Care has been taken to ensure that these reflect the needs of litigants and
their counsel and take account of gender/juvenile considerations. Waiting, consultation and study rooms
will be built on court premises. In line with cultural norms, separate arrangements will be made for women
in the court buildings. The requirements of security, automation and increasing volumes of court users will
be provided for. Allowance will be made for introducing new and more efficient filing and record storage
systems (namely, in the central administrative offices). In rehabilitating old court buildings, care will be
taken to preserve the country's cultural heritage. Before the building works are actually undertaken, more
consultations will be carried out with the users, including judges and their staff, lawyers, litigants and
voluntary (including women's) groups representing civil society.
Specific Activities under Court Infrastructure component to be financed by IDA: IDA funds will be
available for procuring consultant services for design, renovation, and supervision of Court Buildings
and forfinancing construction / upgrading works
Project Component 2 - USS3.44 million
Improving Access to Justice; Promoting Legal Literacy and Public Awareness
An efficient and productive judicial system will not be sufficient if the majority of the public are prevented
from using it by physical, economic or psychological barriers, or by sheer ignorance of it. Accordingly, in
addition to building up the capacity of the Bangladesh judicial system, the Project will help in pulling down
some of these barriers that stand in the way, especially for women and the poor, including lack of gender
sensitivity, high costs of litigation, and lack of public awareness.
Sub-Component 1 - Improvement of Access to Justice
(1) Enhancement of Gender Sensitivity. Steps will be taken to raise the level of gender sensitivity in the
judiciary, with suitable training provided to judges and their staff for this purpose. Appropriate steps will
also be taken, in line with the Government's strategy, to encourage increased representation of women on
the bench (to reach a target of at least 33%).
(2) Development of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) Mechanisms. Altemative mechanisms will be
promoted for resolving disputes in a consensual manner through conciliatory (and less adversarial), less
formal and more flexible (and so less costly) processes. The proposed new Arbitration Law, which is
currently before Parliament, when enacted, will improve the effectiveness of arbitration as an altemative
mechanism for the settlement especially of commercial disputes. Also, the scope and reach of NGO-
sponsored/run community schemes for settlement of disputes at the local level (shalish) will be extended,
which will especially benefit women, the poor, and other vulnerable groups.
(3) Strengthening of Smal Cause Courts.In line with the above measures, steps will be taken to
strengthen, improve, and revitalize the Small Cause Courts, which exist as a forum of convenience for the
underprivileged to litigate small claims. Wherever feasible, presiding judges will try to devote themselves
exclusively to small causes. They will apply the informal procedures available, and encourage the use of
NGO-sponsored shalish and other forms of ADR. Steps will be taken to enhance their monetary and
subject-matter jurisdiction. Beginning with the Stage I Districts, all small claims, wherever filed, will be
transferred to those courts for disposal. Procedural changes and discipline will be introduced in Small
Causes and Family Courts to streamline the process, reduce backlog and time, and ultimately reduce the
cost of litigation for the clients. If necessary, a study will be undertaken under this project to identify and
-46 -



formulate measures for reducing litigation costs for the clients, especially the poor.
(4) Improved Access to Legal Aid. The government provides a certain amount in legal aid to each district
judge, but it remains ineffective, as the poor and underprivileged are unaware of it and the process of
accessing this legal fund is cumbersome. To increase access to legal aid for the target group, the
Government revised the Legal Aid Act in January 2000, which requires the establishment of National Legal
Aid Organization (NLAO) and District Legal Aid Committees, comprising representatives from both
government and civil society. A study under this project will be completed within the first year to develop a
scheme for strengthening NLAO and its district committees, so as to make them more effective and
accessible to the underprivileged and the poor. The process and procedures of the NLAO will be developed
to ensure it disburses the funds effectively and fairly to the needy and poor, for the purposes of legal aid. I
DA Funding will be available to match the existing funding in the NLAO and district legal aid committees,
which will be initiated in the stage I and stage II districts, once the NLAO fund is operationalized in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the study. The IDA matching fund for legal aid will be
expanded to other districts if recommended by the mid-term review.
SpecificActivities under Improvement ofAccess to Justice sub-component to be financed by IDA
DANIDA funds will be available to support gender sensitivity training (as part of the JA TI training
program); IDA funds will be available for financing the NL4O study, contributions to NLAO, and NGO
services.
Sub-Component 2 - Promotion of Legal literacy and Public Awareness
(1) At the grassroots level: To improve access of the poor and underprivileged groups, NGOs have been
providing targeted services on human rights awareness, legal literacy and ADR (shalish) at the grassroots
level. Under this project, legal literacy, public awareness and shalish services will be improved, expanded
and carried out by qualified NGOs. The outreach efforts of current NGOs working in this area will be
extended and assistance will be provided to develop new modules and materials. These NGOs will deliver
communications on the ground in the 21 project districts. Their objective is to build informed public
opinion at the local level through raising awareness particularly among the poor, women and other
underprivileged groups. They will inform local target audiences about the laws and how they impact their
lives, particularly women; help them identify legal shortcomings; link their programs to the overall women's
movement in order to leverage and attain legal reforms for women; and extend their program to the rural
poor. The NGOs will also develop community based communications programs centered on the reform of
the legal framework and criminal justice system carried out under the project. They will develop public
cells in and around each court premise to monitor progress on the ground and will develop a set of
appropriate tools to keep the public informed about the changes in the civil justice system. The MOL will
carry out an assessment of NGO capacity on service delivery of legal literacy and shalish during the first
year of implementation which will be used as baseline for the LJCBP. The NGO-Evaluation Committee
(NGOEC) of MOL, comprising of the Project Director, Deputy Project Director, Chief Accounts Officer of
MOL, one senior accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants, one representative of NGO
Affairs Bureau (NGOAB) and one representative of the Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF) will
select NGOs for service delivery according to the NGO eligibility criteria: competence, institutional
capacity, governance, representation, and credibility (Annex 2C).
(2) National Campaign: The MOL will carry out a national campaign on legal awareness, legal and
judicial reform in the national media (press, radio and television). These services will be provided by
qualified communications experts in the private sector. The private sector and NGOs have been producing
good written, audio, and video materials on legal awareness and literacy, and the project will contract
-47 -



NGOs and communication experts from the private sector to develop materials and disseminate them
through national media. The MOL will produce a quarterly newsletter, which will be distributed nationally,
informing judges, MOL staff, bars, lawyers, NGOs and other key stakeholders on the progress of reform in
the legal and judicial system.
(3) Bar Council/Association: Funding will be available for the Bar Council and bar associations in the
project districts to develop and conduct programs to educate members of the bar about the proposed
reforms and their benefits. The funding will be provided on the basis of predetermined criteria for public
awareness programs which includes training, workshops and development of materials.
SDecific Activities under Promotion of Legal literacy and Public Awareness sub-component to be
financed by IDA: IDAfunds will be availableforfunding specific investments promoting legal literacy
and public awareness.
Project Component 3 - USS 2.10 million
Legal Reform Capacity Building
A number of the judicial reforms to be carried under Project Components 1 and 2 above is likely to involve
legislative changes. To enable the institutions primarily responsible for assisting the Government in this
process (namely, the Law Commission and MOL's Drafting Wing) to do their work effectively and to
facilitate the task at hand, they will be strengthened as follows:
(1) Strengthening of Law Commission (LC). The Law Commission, which was established in 1996,
needs to be strengthened to be able to fulfill its purposes and to play its expected part in carrying out the
agenda of legal reform, including any legislative changes that may be required to strengthen the judiciary.
The Law Conmuission will be expanded from three to five members. The Commission's in-house staff will
be increased to include researchers, legal officers and a full-time administrator. Modem and advanced
work methodology (to be set forth in a "best practices" guide) needs to be developed for the Commission,
providing for wide consultation with interested groups and greater dissemination of information to the
public. The Law Commission should develop network and links with advanced legal research institutes
and think-tanks. A three-year work program is expected to be established, which will be reviewed and
adjusted annually. Computerized research facilities will be provided with access to the Internet and
specialized databases. Appropriate library facilities will be built up over time.
(2) Strengthening of Ministry of Law's (MOL's) Drafting Wing . The capacity of MOL's Drafting
Wing will be enhanced so that it can effectively assist the Government in converting its reform proposals
into draft legislation and in disseminating that legislation after it has been passed. The Drafting Wing will
be converted to a fulU Division. A legislative drafting cadre/service will be established, and direct
recruitment of officers to the Drafting Wing, except for a limnited number ofjudges who are prepared to
give up the judiciary for a career as draftsmen, will be completed on a timely basis. A training and
development program will be developed and implemented for drafters to receive training both on induction
and during service. Appropriate drafting standards will be developed for measuring quality. A drafting
manual will be prepared for the drafters' everyday use and they will be given access to an electronic
database of the complete Bangladesh code and Supreme Court rulings. The Drafting Wing will be
provided with: (a) a suitable networked computer system; and (b) good library facilities, improved
physical facilities and a trained and functioning librarian/cataloguer.
Specific activities under the Legal Reforms Capacity Building component will be parallel co-financed by
-48 -



CIDA in coordination with IDA.
Project Component 4 - US$0.87 million
Preparation of Future Reforms/Other Studies
Future reforms will need to prepare the judiciary to become responsible for its own affairs as a separate
branch of government with salutary effect on its efficiency and accessibility. For this purpose, studies will
be undertaken to give final shape to the proposed structure and terms of reference for: (a) a central
administrative office for the judiciary; (b) a national judicial pay commission; (c) a judicial service
commission; all of which are proposed to be dealt with under subsequent phases of the judicial reform
program as outlined in the Government's Strategy Paper. This will provide an important linkage to GOB's
commitment to undertake the program of Judicial Reform in line with the Bank's desire to support GOB's
efforts.
Specific Activities to be flnanced by IDA. IDA funds will be available for consultant services to prepare
thefuture reform studies.
Project Component 5 - US$1.60 million
Project Implementation and Related Services
Coordination and facilitation of project implementation will be carried out by MOL. While specific
component and sub-component implementation will be the responsibility of each of the concerned agencies,
that is the Supreme Court, the Drafting Wing of the MOL, LC, and JATI, and the infrastructure component
will be implemented by PWD (under a MOU with MOL), the MOL will be responsible for financial
reporting and auditing, the legal services fund, technical services through the Technical Advisor, and
coordinating project activities. The MOL also will facilitate procurement of goods, works, and services, in
close consultation and coordination with the different implementing entities under the Project, while PWD
will be responsible for procurement of works.
Specific Actiities for proiect implementation to be financed by IDA.
The IDA funds will be used for procuring goods and services for supporting needs not available with
MOL and PWD, periodic technical supervision of infrastructure to ensure quality and needs, as well as
rentalfor temporary office space requiredfor smooth and effective implementation of the Project.
Attachment I:                   List of Project Districts including theflve "Stage One Districts"
Attachment II:                  Implementation Responsibilities of Different Agencies
-49 -



Annex 2
Attachment I
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
List of the 21 Proiect Districts. including 5 "Stare One Districts"
Project Districts:
I .    Khulna       (Stage I District - Commercially important)
2.     Gazipur-     (Stage 1 District)
3.    Dhaka -        ( Stage I District - Commercially important)
4.     Comilla      (Stage 1 District)
5.     Rangpur              (Stage 1 District)
6.     Chittagong
7.     Sylhet
8.     Feni
9.    Pabna
10.    Cox's Bazar
11.   Rajshahi
12.    Munshiganj
13.    Thakurgaon
14.   Bhola
15.   Barisal
16.    Gopalganj
17.    Bogra
18.   Madaripur
19.   Mymensingh
20.    Bagerhat
21.    Moulvibazar
Selection criteria for;
(a) Project Districts:
1.    High, medium and low volume Districts
2.    In different parts of the country, covering all Divisions
3.    Some urban/industrialized and some rural Districts
(b) Stage One Districts:
1.    High, medium and low volume Districts
2.    In different parts of the country
3.    Some urban/industrialized and some rural Districts
4.     Convenientfor caseload study
5.     Convenient for monitoring
- 50 -



BANGLADESH: Legal & Judicial Capacity Project                                 Annex 2
Implementation Arrangements of Different Agencies                           Attachment U
Supreme Court (SC)             .   Case management reforms in the Supreme Court and District Courts
Court administration reforms in the Supreme Court and District Courts
Supreme Court Implementation            CMIS installation
Supreme CourtmImpmi entatSC iC n   Preparations of proposals (ointly with MOL) for future re reforms
Commitee (SCIC)                   Oversight over implementation of reforms
Registrar                .     orcirmhft int infrgatnlm viLP ronnyatinn nf qiZprernmj Cnr 
District Court s (21)              Case management reforms in District Courts
P    Court administration reforms in District Courts
Distrct Judges of each district        CMIS installation in District Courts
Oversiaht in infrastructure renovation of Distnct Court
Judicial Training             . Strengthening of J AT I
Institute
Director General JTI               Implementation of training plan
(IDA & DANIDA parallel co-            Construction oversight including design approval of new JTI building
financed)
Law Commission
*    Strengthening of Law Commission
Secretary of LC                  Legislative program to support judicial reform in consultation with MOL
(CIDA parallel co-financed)           and SC
Drafting Wing (DW) of MOL
Deputy Secretarof DStrengthening of Drafting Wing
Deputy Secretary of DW              Legislative program to support judicial reform
(CIDA parallel co-fenanced)
Public Works Department
ofMnityPfWork                  ImplemenStaon of court infrastructure component
Sueitendin EnieeGonstruction of JTI building
Coordination and facilitating implementation, including procurement and
Ministry of Law              . consultant and goods in consultation with relevant project entities
_.ensuring all necessary reporting including financial management
Project Implementation and      _    oversight over implementation of reforms
related services                 oversight including quality of infrastructure built under the project
Project Director and team            ensuring proper flow of funds
managing thp aegcsg ton higtorA rnmponn-nt
- 51 -



Annex 2A
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Indicative Flow Chart of Implementation of Case Management and Court Administration Reforms
Case Management                                             Year I           Year 2           Year 3
Actfvitfes
I. Starting with diagnostic study implementation of case management, including Case  X                   **4*
Classification and Purge of Cases, in Supreme Court (SC) and 2 Stage I District Courts.
2. Final Report on SC and 2 Stage I District Courts (DCs).
3. Diagnostic study and implementation of case managemnt m remaining 3 Stage I DCs as at
item I above.
4. Final Report comprising findings on all five Stage I DCs, along with implenentation toolkit
ready for use in the 16 Stage 11 Districts.
5. Replication starts in 16 Stage 11 Districts of Case Management mnodel developed in the 5
Stage I Districts.
Year 4           Year 5           Year 6
5. Replication continues in the 16 Stage 11 Districts of Case Management based on the model  i                      it it  ***,*,*,-
developed in Stage I Districts.
Court Administration Reforms                                       Year I           Year 2            Year 3
Acdvities
1. Starting with diagnostic study implementation of Court Administration reforms in Supremne  - *   s*  *****
Court (SC) and 2 Stage I District Courts (DCs).
2. Final Report on SC and 2 DCs                                                                                *E
3. Diagnostic study and implementation of court administration reforms in remnaining 3 Stage I
DCs as at item I above.                                                                               j _        _       __X_V
4. Final Report comprising findings on all five Stage I DCs, along with implementation toolkit
ready for use in the 16 Stage 11 Districts.
5. Replication starts in 16 Stage UI Districts of CoUrt Admrinistration model developed in the S
Stage I Districts.
Year 4           Year 5           Year 6
6. Replication continues in 16 Stage 11 Districts of Court Administration model developed in 5  *    
Stage I Districts.
- 52 -



Annex 2B
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Guidelines for the Environmental Mananement of
Court Buildinr Construction
The proposed Project will support the construction of:
* Judicial Administration Training Institute Complex (JATI) near the Bangladesh Secretariat and
opposite (eastern side ) of the Carzon Hall of Dhaka University;
*   Renovation, refurbishment and vertical expansion (wherever possible) of existing court buildings in 21
selected Districts;
*   Constructing new building blocks within the existing court building premises, in harmnony with the
existing order/architecture;
* Landscaping within the boundary of the court building;
* Providing adequate water supply and sanitation and other utilities, and addressing gender issues in
provision of toilets and other facilities;
* Addressing acoustic problems inside the court rooms, etc.
This project is focused on improving the court infrastructure environment, and as such can be regarded
largely as an environmental enhancing endeavor. This project has been identified as Environmental
Category "C".
The project emphasizes environmental friendly procedures, incorporating criteria such as ensuring:
*   Temporary accommodation for the work forces near the site area with adequate provision of water
supply for drinking, bathing and washing purposes;
* Sufficient latrines are constructed so as not pose a health hazard;
* Toxic materials are barred to be used in the construction such as lead based paints asbestos etc. for
example;
_   Building materials that may potentially threaten the environment are discouraged. For example hollow
cement blocks as partition materials against bricks are suggested. The traditional brick making process
involves burning of trees, emission of sulfur through coal burning, emission of dust, etc., which are
considered to be detrimental to health and environment; and
* Steel shuttering and steel props are recommended instead of bamboo and wood.
The project is designed to ensure follow-up of environmental issues, as stated above, through mechanisms
at four levels as follows:
*   Through the Public Works Department (PWD) and Ministry of Law (MOL);
* Through the Design and Supervision consultants by incorporating environmental requirements in the
specifications and bill of quantities and through the appointment of Technical Auditors on a short-term
basis;
* Through IDA's supervision;
* Through liability of the contractors.
1.    Environmental Principles
The environmental principles adopted in this project are intended to protect human health and promote
environmental sustainability, as described below:
- 53 -



(a)    Protecdon of Human Health
* Drinking water should be available in adequate quantity, and meet national drinking water standards;
* Sufficient latrines must be constructed, designed, and maintained so as not to pose a hazard to health;
* Adequate bathing and washing facilities are provided, and maintained in hygienic condition;
* No toxic materials are to be used in the construction. In particular, the use of asbestos and lead-based
paints must be prohibited;
* Safe and secure access should be integrated into the design to minimize the risk of accidents.
(b)    Environmental Sustainability
* To the extent possible, the materials used in construction should come from environmentally
sustainable sources;
* Energy must be used efficiently.
(c)    Welfare of Affected Communides
*   The court premises will be landscaped and will have positive impact on green and recreational areas;
* The construction will be carried out on existing court premises, so access to dwellings, businesses and
productive resources should be guaranteed during both the construction and operational phases;
* To minimize public nuisances, construction activities will follow strict environmental guidelines.
Construction schedules and the timing of necessary interruption of public utilities (electricity, water
and telephone) will be communicated to the affected conmmunity;
*   The design will hannonize with urban surroundings including landscaping and planning for other uses
for all additionally created spaces to minimize negative impact on enviromnental quality and property
values;
*   All areas and infrastructure affected during construction will be restored to their original condition,
especially sidewalks, green street dividers, gardens, sidewalk trees, utilities, and side streets impacted
by traffic diversion.
2. Environmental Screening, Design and Supervision
(a)    Screening
Based on the initial screening exercise (described in detail below), the construction under this project may
fall within the following categories:
* No major issues identified. Apply environmental guidelines for design and construction;
* Major issues identified. Select altemative site or design.
(b)    Design
Environmental considerations will be incorporated in the architectural and engineering designs, with
particular attention to the issues identified during screening. The design will also take advantage of
opportunities for environmental enhancement, and include the drafting of specifications and programming
to minimize the environmental impact of construction. These considerations are discussed in more detail
below.
- 54 -



If any major issues are identified during screening, further public consultations will be held to ensure that
these concerns have been adequately addressed in the designs. The PWD will be responsible for ensuring
that appropriate clearance is received from the Department of Environment for all construction under the
project.
(c)    Supervision
The five groups involved (PWD, Technical Auditing Team, Design and Supervision Consultants, the
Contractors, and IDA supervision missions) will have responsibilities to ensure that environmental
mitigation measures have been effectively implemented. The principal concerns to be addressed are
included in the discussion of environmental management tools below.
3.     Environmental Screening
The construction of buildings of this nature usually does not pose a serious risk of significant
environmental impacts. It is advisable, however, to screen subprojects and construction sites to ensure that
significant issues are identified and proper measures included in project design. The potential issues
depend on the type of construction, area available, and the location of the proposed construction. In most
cases, construction activities would probably be of some concern, especially where inconvenience or
nuisances during construction will require careful planning of construction activities.
The PWD will be responsible for ensuring that the sites and designs are screened for:
* Potential interruption or limitation of accesses to dwellings, businesses, or productive resources either
permanently or temporarily;
v Demolition of buildings of high architectural or historical value;
*   Potential deterioration of urban quality and property values in the immediate vicinity of the works, or
deterioration of unique architectural characteristics in the neighborhood;
* The potential for increased incidence of accidents in areas with a high density of other urban and
commercial activities;
* The effect on existing urban infrastructure (e.g., sidewalks, power and telephone lines, and water and
sewerage mains);
* Potentially unacceptable nuisances during construction (dust, wastes, and heavy construction traffic);
and
* Potential issues regarding natural hazards (such as floods or slope instability).
4.     Environmental Management Tools
(a)    Environmental considerationsfor the Engineering Design
The engineering design of construction under the project will take into consideration the following concerns:
* the connection of the Court buildings to the potable water system, the capacity of the existing water
distribution network, or the need to establish a water supply system for the building (e.g. well, storage
tank, pumping station);
* the connection to the sewerage network and the need for capacity expansion for receiving collectors, or
the need for a wastewater treatment system for the building (septic tank, infiltration ditch);
* the treatment of wastewater from cafeterias and kitchens before being discharged to the sewerage
- 55 -



networks or the wastewater treatment system;
*   the adequate management of runoff and the facilities for its collection and evacuation, having in mind
the existing downstream systems; the systems of collection, storage and transportation of solid wastes
generated in the building, appropriate access systems for motorized vehicles, pedestrians, bicycles,
children and handicapped people;
* the need to integrate building design with architectural characteristics of the surrounding neighborhood;
and
* avoiding the use of toxic or environmentally damaging materials such as lead-based paints, asbestos, or
timber from sources that are not sustainably managed.
(b)    Environmental Enhancement
The architectural design includes many opportunities to incorporate and reinforce the criteria of
environmentally friendly buildings. The environmental enhancement features under the project will include
the following:
* maximizing natural light in order to minimize artificial light needs;
* planting of native species in gardens and green areas;
* natural ventilation systems, minimizing the necessities of air conditioning, and improving the acoustic
system; and
- if necessary, the stabilization of slopes by suitable plantations.
(c)    Environmental Management of Construction Activities
To reduce impacts and nuisances to surrounding areas, careful planning of construction activities and the
application of strict environmental measures highlighted during construction will be ensured. Among the
aspects that will be kept in mind are:
- pedestrian safety and traffic congestion during construction;
- dust and particulate materials, causing nuisances to surrounding families and businesses;
- undesirable noise levels due to machinery and equipment;
- degradation of lateral streets due to heavy equipment machinery, traffic detours; and the interruption of
services (water, electricity, telephone, bus routes) during construction;
* adequate disposal of garbage, metals, used oils, and excess material, generated during construction.
All these measures will be included in an environmental manual to form part of the bidding documents for
construction contracts.
Contracts will specify measures to ensure safer handling of waste disposal and the environmental
management necessary (compacting, re-soiling and re-vegetation, drainage control).
The engineering design will include (i) the preparation of environmental specifications that the contractor
should follow during the construction, and (ii) the design and programming of construction, as well as
including approaches to minimize the impact and nuisances to the local population. The supervision of
construction by the Design and Supervision Consultants will include the verification of compliance with
these requirements.
- 56 -



(d)    Supervision of Environmental Measures following Construction
The engineering design will include the preparation of operational and maintenance manuals for all
systems. As part of their supervision activities, the concerned agencies will visit the completed Court
buildings to verify that these manuals are applied, and that:
* drinking water meets national standards, and washing and lavatory facilities are maintained in a
hygienic condition;
* wastewater collection and treatment systems are properly maintained;
* solid waste is adequately collected and disposed of, and to the extent possible recycled.
- 57 -



Annex 2C
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
NGO Selection Criteria
PROCUREMENT OF NGO SERVICES TO ASSIST IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGAL
AND JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT (LJCBP)
I. General Principles
1.    The Government plans to contract with NGOs to assist with the implementation of the Project
Component 2 of LJCBP, Improving Access to Justice; Promoting legal Literacy and Public Awareness,
in order to:
*   Make use of all available resources in both public and private sectors to implement this priority
program as rapidly as possible;
*   Bring to bear the skills and experience of NGOs in the areas of social mobilization, behavior
change comnmunication (BCC), the delivery of legal literacy, community awareness of legal and
judicial system, human rights, legal aid and ADRlshalish services and field supervision, in order
to achieve as high a quality program as possible.
2.     The Government's NGO selection and contracting policy under LJCBP aims to:
*   Be fair and transparent and give equal opportunity to all qualified NGOs;
* ensure that the most technically, managerially and financially competent NGOs are selected for
participation.
3 .    To achieve the above objectives, the MOL will:
*   Contract NGOs on a competitive basis using clear selection criteria and a transparent selection
process, in order to ensure program quality and fairness;
*   Carry out an assessment of NGO capacity finalized through a workshop within the first year of
project effectiveness, for the provision of legal literacy, public awareness of the legal and judicial
system and human rights, legal aid and ADR (shalish) services, which will be used as a baseline
for LJCBP. The NGO selection and contracting will be initiated after finalization of the study.
II. Procedures and Criteria for the Selection of NGOs
4.     As a start-up of the NGO contracting process under the Project, MOL will request the NGO
Affairs Bureau (NGOAB) to provide it with a long-list of NGOs (registered with NGOAB for at least five
years) which it believes may be eligible for participation in LJCBP, based on their experience in community
based legal literacy services. A Letter of Invitation to Express Interest in participation in LJCBP will be
sent to each of these NGOs. In order to ensure that NGOs expressing interest have the capacity to operate,
the Letter of Invitation specifies, among the eligibility criteria for being an LJCBP partnering NGO
(PNGO), that eligible NGOs must be able to provide evidence that they have been providing legal literacy
- 58 -



services to the community for (a) at least two years no less than 15% of the population in at least 1 Thana
in the LJCBP Project Districts, and (b) that they must have adequate management and financial systems.
5.    The MOL will determine which interested NGOs meet the eligibility criteria, and will invite
between three and six interested and eligible NGOs to submit proposals for the Stage 1 (5) and Stage II (16)
project districts, through a Letter of Request For Proposals.
6.    NGOs currently working in the 21 Project Districts will be contracted according to the following
schedule: 2 districts of Stage I within first 18 months, 3 districts of Stage I in the next 12 months and 16
districts in Stage II during the remaining period of the project. The process in paras 2.01 and 2.02 above
will be repeated in each contracting round.
7.    NGOs will be selected under fixed budget contracts. The budget for each package will be
determined on the basis of standard unit costs per Thana (including a standard allowance for the costs of
managerial staff at the Thana level), together with an adjustment for: (a) inflation, (b) variations in the size
of Thana population, and (c) any other special local conditions, such as difficulty of access. There will be
a 100/% addition to this budget to cover overhead costs. NGOs' proposals for a given area package should
demonstrate their capacity in the following areas, which will be the criteria by which proposals will be
evaluated:
(a)    Competence: proven track record (at least two years) of implementing successful community legal
literacy activities, relevant skills and experience of working with the poor, women and other vulnerable
groups in both rural and urban areas.
(b)    Institutional capacity: committed leadership, sufficient scale of operation, adequate financial
strength and stability, access to other sources of financing, physical facilities and equipment, adequacy of
skilled human resources and human resource development system, past record of working cooperatively
with government and other NGOs.
(c)    Governance: sound interal management, sound accounting system and external auditing,
transparency, financial accountability, efficiency.
(d)    Representation: current presence in the proposed area, community ties, local knowledge,
accountability to members/beneficiaries, gender sensitivity.
(e)    Credibility: registered with NGOAB for at least five years, acceptability to all the stakeholders
especially the local community and government
8.    Two committees, (a) the NGO Evaluation Committee (NGOEC) and (b) Legal Services Support
Committee (LSSC), will be established to facilitate the process of NGO selection, and review and monitor
the quality of service delivery of the NGOs at the grassroots level, respectively. The NGOEC will meet as
needed for the selection and contracting of NGOs, and LSSC will meet twice a year to review and monitor
the progress of NGO service delivery at the grassroots level. The membership of the two committees will be
as follows:
The NGO Evaluation Committee (NGOEC)
Project Director
Deputy Project Director
- 59 -



Representative of JATI
Representative, NGO Affairs Bureau
One senior accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants
Representative, Palli Karma Sahayak Foundation (PKSF)
The Legal Services Support Committee (LSSC)
One retired justice of the High Court ( Chair)
Representative, Association of Development Agencies of Bangladesh
Representative, Jatiya Mahila Sangsthya
Representative, Human Rights Commission (when becomes operational)
Representative of the Supreme Court Bar or Representative of a District Bar
Chairperson, Law Department, Dhaka University
Project Director (Member Secretary)
9.    The NGO Evaluation Committee (NGOEC) of LJCBP will be responsible for reviewing the
proposals submitted by interested NGOs, to verify information given about the NGOs' capacity, and to
obtain any needed clarifications. Data given about NGO's field presence and acceptability to local
communities will be verified in the field by MOL/LJCBP staff or consultants. If it emerges that facts
provided by any NGO about its capacity are materially incorrect, the Project Director of the LJCBP will
make a recommendation to the MOL that that NGO be disqualified from participation in LJCBP. In such
cases, a copy of the Project Director's recommendation, and the reasons for it, will be sent to the
disqualified NGO at the same time as it is sent to the Legal Services Support Committee (LSSC).
10.   In deciding which proposal will be accepted, the NGOEC will evaluate each NGO's overall
capacity to provide the proposed service package for the project districts under consideration, according to
an agreed scoring system. After the evaluation, the NGOEC will send the results of the evaluation and the
proposed contract package to the Project Director for clearance of the contract award, subject to IDA
approval.
11.   The NGOs will be contracted for the following types of activities:
(a)    Promotion of legal literacy, public awareness on legal and judicial system, human rights, social
mobilization through field workers, and other activities for the target groups e.g. the poor, women, tribal
and ethnic minorities, and other disadvantaged groups;
(b)    Conducting baseline surveys on community/people's legal awareness and access to the judicial
system or ADR (including shalish), and developing indicators through which the progress of the component
can be measured;
(c)    Providing training and technical assistance to communities for promoting access to justice for the
poor and women;
(d)    Awareness-raising on community ADR (including shalish)systems, making ADR (including
shalish) more inclusive, pro-poor, and pro-women;
(e)    Developing fair, inclusive ADR (including shalish) system at the grassroots level and delivering
ADR (including shalish) services to the community;
- 60 -



(f)    Conmmunity awareness-raising about the Government's Legal Aid Program vested under the
National Legal Aid Organization and District Legal Aid Committees, linking the community with the local
Legal Aid Committee and the Local Bar Association so as to improve poor people's access to and
availability of legal aid;
(g)    Monitoring, supervision, and quality control of all the above activities; and
(h)    Maintaining/providing systematic records and reports in the fornat required by LJCBP.
- 61 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
iniA~~~~~~~~~~~~U  $nil)<lx ,ion0L dUS ' m0fli                      USa
A. Judicial Capacity Building                             15.45        14.51         29.96
B. Improving Access to Justice; Promoting Legal Literacy and  2.10      0.84          2.94
Public Awareness
C. Legal Reform Capacity Building                          1.05         0.95          2.00
D. Preparation of Future Reforms                           0.34         0.35          0.69
E. Project Implementation and Related Services             0.85         0.53          1.38
Total Baseline Cost                                       19.79        17.18         36.97
Physical Contingencies                                    1.32         1.27          2.59
Price Contingencies                                       2.82         1.24          4.06
Total Project Costs             23.93         19.69        43.62
Total Financing Required              23.93         19.69        43.62
Goods                                                       2.44           2.41         4.85
Works                                                       10.08          9.77         19.85
Services and Training                                       7.57           7.51         15.08
NLAO Costs                                                   1.34          0.00          1.34
Operating Cost                                              2.50           0.00         2.50
Total Project Costs    23.93          19.69        43.62
Total Financing Required     23.93          19.69        43.62
- 62 -



Annex 4
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
NIA
- 63 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
US$ million
l Piamantatio  Period   _Oeraftonal Perioid
2001102 2002V03 2003104 2004105 2005106 2006107  TOTAL  2007108 2008109 2009110 2010111 2011112
ProJ.ct Cost
intrnent cost                        5.51    8.91    9.49    9.61      572      1.88   41.12
Recurrent Cost                       0.12    0.22    0.36    0,54    0.65    0.61        2.50    068    0.74    0.82        0.90     0.99
Total    5.63    9.13    9.85    10.15    6.37    2.4      43.62       0.68    0.74    0.82      0.90     099
:  _                                       ~~~~       ~      ~     ~        ~        ~~~~~~43.62=_
Finatricg Souwcs CAmountsl                -       -                                                                              - _   .   _
Govemornt"                           0.08     1.79    1.461    1.86    2.85    0.62      8.66     0.681   0.74    0.82      0.90     0.99
IDA                                  4.70    5.20    7,50    7.80|   3.52       1,87   30.59         0       0        0        0       0
CIOA                                 0.54     1.20    0.26    0.00    000       0.0      2.00 0i             0        0        0       0
DANiDA                               0.31    0.94    0.63    0.49    0.00    0.00       2.37         t       0        0        0       0
Tot8t | 5.63    9.13    9.i85   10.15       6.37    2.49   43.62       0.68i   0.74    0.82      0.90     0.99
43.62
Financing Sources
tin % of Project Cost per -e. -r                                       -
Governme1tt                           1%      20%     15%      18%     45%      25%      20%     100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
IDA                                  83%     57%      76%      77%     55%      75%      700       0%       0%      0%       0 %      0%
CiOA                                 10%      13%      3%       0%      0%       0%       5%       0%       0%      0%       0 %      0%
DANIDA                                6%     10%       6%       5%      0%       0%      5%        0%j    0%        0%       0 %      0%
Total   100%         100%      100%     100%1   1    00%     100%     100%    10 0%J  100%     100%     100%    100%
'increase per year estimated at:  10%
Includes taxes and duties.
- 64 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
Procurement
1.    For procurement of goods and works, financed in part or whole from IDA funds, the procedures
outlined in the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995
(Revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) shall apply. Consultants'
services financed in part or in whole from IDA funds will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 199 7 (Revised
September 1997 and January 1999). CIDA and DANIDA have agreed to provide Grant Funds for
specific activities through parallel financing, which will be procured following their respective Procurement
Guidelines/Procedures.
2.    Table A summarizes the project items, the related cost estimates and proposed methods of
procurement. Amounts in parenthesis show the amounts financed by IDA. Table B summarizes the
thresholds for procurement methods and prior review.
Procurement methods (Table A)
3.    Works (US$19.55 million): There are 23 contract packages comprising new construction,
upgrading, renovation and repair works in 21 districts of the country. These works are widely dispersed
geographically, and will be executed at different times during project implementation, and the amount of
each contract is not large and thus unlikely to attract the interest of foreign bidders. For this reason, all
contracts may be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB), acceptable to IDA. The works
will be implemented by the Public Works Department (PWD) of the Government of Bangladesh (GOB),
initially with the assistance of two consultants (one for the JATI and the other for the Courts) for
architectural and structural designs and preparation of bidding documents. These consultants will be
selected by PWD following IDA Guidelines. For top supervision and quality certification of civil works
MOL will procure the services of consultants. PWD will administer the contracts and make full payment
to contractors, of which 80% will be from the Special Account and the remaining 20% from the GOB.
IDA Credit will not support PWD charges, which will be paid out of MOL's own resources. However, the
project will support a limited purchases of office equipment, air conditioners, furniture, and vehicles for
PWD officials to ensure smoother operations, especially supervision and monitoring of civil works. MOL
and PWD agreed to sign a memorandum of understanding (MOU) for the execution of the Works
component, satisfactory to IDA.
4. Goods: A (US$5.19 million): contract packages for seven vehicles, a public address system, and an air
conditioner for 58 Supreme Court rooms and furniture for 224 district courtrooms costing US$200,000 and
above, will be procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) method. Furniture for a Supreme
Court conference room, for JATI, and 26 district courtrooms, plus computers, and related accessories will
be installed in various District courts across the country at different stages of project implementation.
Considering the plan of supply and scope of incidental services, these purchases are unlikely to attract the
interest of foreign suppliers and may be procured following NCB procedures. A small quantity of steel
furniture for the Supreme Court record room and office equipment (including air conditioners) for PWD
will also be procured using NCB, acceptable to IDA. There are some urgently required items, such as a
vehicle, some office equipment, and furniture for the Project Director's office, with each contract not
exceeding US$20,000 equivalent with an aggregate amount of US$450,000. National shopping will be
- 65 -



used for these purchases, with solicitation of at least three quotations from qualified suppliers.
B CIDA (US$ 200,000): will procure computers and related items, office equipment and books and
journals for the Law Commission and Ministry of Law will be made following the Procurement
Guidelines/Procedures of CIDA; and
C DANIDA (USS 400,000):will procure computers and related items and three vehicles for JATI will be
made following the DANIDA Procurement Guidelines/Procedures.
5. Services ( US$12.07 million): Between IDA, CIDA, and DANIDA, there will be a total of 19 services
contracts (S1-S19). Ofthese, IDA funds will cover 14 services contracts estimatedbetween US$24,000
and US$2,780,000. These contracts for MOL, JATI, and PWD will be procured following QCBS (4
contracts), Fixed Budget (5 contracts), and Least Cost (4 contracts) procedures, respectively, as reflected
in the Procurement Plan. Of the 14 contracts, two QCBS contracts, i. e., SI (Reform Advisory
Consultants) and S2 (Case Management and Court Administration) are at the short-listing stage. The other
two QCBS contracts are contract S1O ( Consultancy Services for Developing and Installing CMIS) and
contract S 11 (Consultancy Services on Future Reforms). However, contract S1 6 (Case Management and
Court Administration for 16 Districts Courts) is linked to the outcomes and capacity enhancement achieved
after the reforms are implemented in the first five District courts and the Supreme Court in the first three
years of the project. For this reason, the procurement method for this contract cannot yet be determined.
Based on experience gained in the first phase of the reforn under contract S2 (five District courts and the
Supreme Court), the contract may be sub-packaged, if necessary, and the selection method may be QCBS
or under a Fixed Budget or other method. Out of five Fixed-Budget contracts, three are for NGO services
and will be procured following procedures similar to those agreed for the lead NGOs in the National
Nutrition Project, append led at Annex 2C. The five Fixed- Budget contracts represent consultancy services
for (a) assessing NGO capacity to carry out Legal Literacy and Awareness-related activities, (b) improving
mechanisms for delivering legal aid, (c) creating Legal Literacy and Awareness in two Districts (Gazipur
and Khulna), (d) creating Legal Literacy and Awareness in three Districts (Dhaka, Comilla, Rangpur), and
(e) creating Legal Literacy and Awareness in 16 Stage 2 Districts. The four Least-Cost contacts are for (a)
auditing project perforr.ance, (b) consultancy services for assessment of works, (c) engineering design of
structures for court renovation and preparing bid documents, (d) consultancy services for preparing an
architectural and structural design for JATI, and (e) consultancy services for Technical Auditing.
6. Training and Fellowships (US$2.97 million): US$0.74 million will be funded by IDA, and the rest will
be funded by CIDA and DANIDA under parallel financing.
7. National Legal Aid Organization (US$1.34 million): The National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO),
that has been established by GOB through an Act in 2000, is charged with the resposibility for carrying out
the State sponsored legal aid program as a means for improving access to justice for the underprivileged.
The NLAO is eligible to receive funds under the Project once evidence satisfactory to IDA is received that
NLAO has become operational in accordance with the recommendations of the study conducted for the
purpose under the Project. The MOL will be responsible for disbursing the funds and will come under the
financial control mechanism of the Project.
8. Staff Salary and Operating Costs (US$2.50 million): The Project will finance costs of incremental
staff salaries, office equipment including stationers on a declining basis, as follows: Year 1, 100%; Year 2,
80%; Year 3, 60%; Year 4, 40%; Year 5, 20%, and Year 6, 0% for an average of 50%.
- 66 -



9. Procurement Capacity Review:
Both the MOL and PWD have limited procurement capacity and limited experience in IDA-financed
procurement; although four staff of the MOL, meanwhile, have received formal training, one for goods at
Turin, Italy and the other three for works, at Hyderabad, India. However, since they do not have practical
experience in procurement of goods and works, there is some risk, and therefore, some capacity
improvement is required. To improve the capacity, the services of a consultant will be procured. In
addition, MOL has made provision for technical assistance for ensuring quality of civil works. The project
will support this technical assistance. There will be a separate core team for procurement (PCT) in MOL
and PWD. PWD recently executed one Works contract under the Health and Population Program Project
(HPPP). While PWD has long experience in Works procurement, following GOB procedures, it has not
yet gained sufficient experience in IDA-financed contract implementation. As such, PWD has asked for
initial technical assistance in the area of architectural and structural designs and preparation of bidding
documents. The project will support technical assistance to PWD for these limited services. In addition to
technical assistance, the project will support formal training for PWD staff in procurement of Works.
To further improve procurement capacity, the project will provide training of designated officials in
Bank-funded procurement. It will also provide resources for hiring procurement specialists as consultants
(whose TORs will been agreed with IDA). For processing procurement related activities, one official at the
level of senior assistant secretary along with supporting staff has been posted in the MOL Project Core
Team (PCT). PWD has also assigned staff, from its existing human resources, to form a PCT at
Headquarters, consisting of one Superintending Engineer (Head of Works Core Team ), one Executive
Engineer, two sub-divisional Engineers, one Accounts Officer (Divisional Accountant), two Accountants,
two drivers, and two messengers.
In addition to the above, the following actions have been agreed by the Borrower for further strengthening
of the PCT at MOL and PWD, to support the streamlining and processing of contracts:
(a) For procurement of goods and services, MOL has agreed to select a Procurement Specialist conversant
with IDA procurement policies and procedures by December 31, 2001;
(b) PWD will initiate the selection of consultants (contract S-19) for JATI by November 30, 2000 and
consultants (contract S-17) for courts by December 6, 2000; and
(c) necessary training of PCT members, and other officials involved in procurement, will be completed
within the first year after the project becomes effective.
10. Procurement and Selection Planning: Project procurement requirements for Goods, Works and
Services have been identified. The Procurement and Selection Plans have been prepared by MOL.
Procurement of goods and works and selection of consultants and NGOs for the first year of the project
will be processed in accordance with the Plan approved by IDA. Selection (short-listing) process for two
services contracts (S- I and S-2) have already been initiated. Prior to issuance of any invitation for bids for
procurement of goods, works and services' contracts for the subsequent years of the project, the Plans'
Processing Schedules for procurement of goods and works and services contracts will be revised and
furnished to IDA for its review and approval. Procurement of all goods, works and selection of all
consultants including NGOs shall be undertaken in accordance with the revised Plans as shall have been
approved by IDA. MOL will promptly inform IDA of any delay, or other changes in the scheduling of the
procurement process, which could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of the
contracts and agree with IDA on corrective measures, in accordance with paragraph 1 of the Guidelines.
- 67 -



11. Use of Standard Biding Documents: The use of IDA's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) is
mandatory for ICB procurement of goods. For NCB procurement, the SBD for goods and works approved
by the Association will be used. For selection of consulting firms, the Bank's Standard Request for
Proposals, including standard contract forms, will be used. The Bank's Standard Bid Evaluation Form for
Goods and Works and Sample Form of Evaluation for Services will be followed for submission of
evaluation reports to IDA.
12. Review of Procurement Performance: The procurement status and its compliance with the Bank's
Guidelines will be monitored on a continuous basis by IDA. As part of the project's planned mid-term
review in CY2004, a comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will also be carried out.
Based on this assessment, in consultation with GOB, IDA may revise the prior-review threshold and the
procurement and selection methods.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procuemernt 'Method
Expenditre Caeoy                                             0*____       H.B.F.      Totl os
1. Works                           0.00           19.55          0.00          0.00          19.55
(0.00)        (13.84)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (13.84)
2. Goods                            2.52          2.27           0.40           0.00          5.19
(2.19)        (1.65)         (0.23)        (0.00)         (4.07)
3. Services                         0.00          0.00          12.07          0.00          12.07
(0.00)        (0.00)         (9.77)        (0.00)         (9.77)
4. Training                         0.00          0.00           2.97          0.00           2.97
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.74)        (0.00)         (0.74)
5. NLAO Costs *                    0.00           0.00           1.34           0.00          1.34
(0.00)        (0.00)         (1.21)        (0.00)         (1.21)
6. Incremental Staff and            0.00          0.00           2.50          0.00           2.50
Operating Cost                     (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.96)         (0.00)        (0.96)
Total                            2.52          21.82          19.28          0.00         43.62
(2.19)        (15.49)       (12.91)         (0.00)       (30.59)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to managing, coordinating and facilitating implementation of different
components of the project.
* NLAO Costs: The National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO), that has been established by GOB through an Act
in 2000, is charged with the resposibility for carrying out the State sponsored legal aid program as a means for
improving access to justice for the underprivileged. The NLAO is eligible to receive funds under the Project once
evidence satisfactory to IDA is received that NLAO has become operational in accordance with the
recommendations of the study conducted for the purpose under the Project. The MOL will be responsible for
disbursing the funds.
- 68 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Constlhant                                 SebctIion   Method
Srles
Exienditure    QiBS      QBS       SF8       LCS       GQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost
C,atgory    _      .                                        ,  . _
A. Firms           6.15      0.00     2.44      0.55      0.00      1.38      2.08     12.60
(5.70)    (0.00)    (2.25)    (0.51)    (0.00)    (1.30)    (0.00)    (9.76)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)
Total   6.15     0.00      2.44      0.55     0.00       1.38     2.08      12.60
(5 .70)    (0.00)    (2.25)    (0.51)    (0.00)    (1.30)    (0.00)    (9.76)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS  Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS  Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 69 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
13. Works and Goods: IDA will carry out prior review of the first contract for goods and works
following NCB methods and all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more. All
other contracts will be subject to selective post-review by IDA. For this, selective post-review of contracts
below the thresholds will be carried out for up to 10% of the contracts awarded.
14. Services: IDA's prior review will be required for all services contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of US$ 100,000 or more for firms. For individual consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference (TOR) and terms of employment of
the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review. In addition, IDA's prior review will be
required for TORs of all contracts irrespective of contract price.
Acceptabilitv of NCB:
15.    To ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of Section
I of the Procurement Guidelines:
(i) standard bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used;
(ii) invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper,
and bidding documents shall be made available to prospective bidders at least 28 days prior to the
deadline for the submission of bids;
(iii) bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
(iv) bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
(v) foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders;
(vi) qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and if a registration process is required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest
evaluated bidder shall be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any let or hindrance;
(vii) bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier service or by mail;
(viii) all bidders shall provide bid security as indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder's bid
security shall apply only to a specific bid;
(ix) bids shall be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but no later than one hour after
the deadline for submission of bids;
(x) evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed with the Association;
(xi) bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
(xii) split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried out. When two or more bidders
quote the same lowest price, an investigation shall be made to detennine any evidence of collusion,
following which: (a) if collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the award
shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder, or (b) if no evidence of collusion
can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association;
- 70 -



(xiii) contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial period of bid validity
so that extensions are not necessary. Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional
circumstances;
(xiv) extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence of the Association: (a)
for the first request for extension if it is longer than eight weeks; and (b) for all subsequent requests for
extensions irrespective of the period;
(xv) negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
(xvi) re-bidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence; and
(xvii) all contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated in the contract
documents. A contractor's or a supplier's performance security shall apply to a specific contract under
which it was furnished.
16.   Notifications. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has already been sent to UN Development
Business for publication in the issue no. 526, January 16, 2000.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
cotract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Thesld                 Procurenent              Prilo Raview
Expendire Caeory  _ U,$ tht*nS)                        Method               (UpS$ tousn
1. Works                200,000<=x=<2,500,000            NCB              The first contract and all
contracts above $200,000
2. Goods                     x => 200,000                 ICB             The first contract and all
30,000<= x < 200,000            NCB             contracts above $200,000
<US$30,000                  NS
3. Services and Training      x=>50,000                  QCBS              All contracts for firms
x<= 10,000                 LCS                exceeding $100,000
All contracts for individuals
exceeding $50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 71 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
17.   Table C shows the allocation of IDA Credit proceeds and the financing for the various categories
of expenditures. Preparation and submission of withdrawal applications will be the responsibility of MOL
with respect to all categories other than civil works. PWD will be responsible for preparation and
submission of withdrawal applications for civil works.
18.   The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over a period of six years. The closing date of the
project will be December 31, 2006. Disbursement estimates from the IDA Credit over a six year period are
presented on page 2 of the PAD.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
:   J dS ft0tureWi:0:   As i In U0 llion P0ihencln Percontage
A. Civil Works                             12.50                  80% of expenditure
B. Goods                                   3.50              100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
C. Services and Training                   10.00                        100%
D. Incremental Staff and Operating         1.90           a) 50% of amounts disbursed in and FY
Cost
a) NLAO Costs [US$ 1.0 million]                           b)FYO1 - 100%; FY02 - 80%; FY03 -
b) Other Costs [US$ 0.9 million]                            60%; FY04 - 40%; FY05 - 20%;
FY06 - 0%
E. Unallocated                             2.70
Total Project Costs                        30.60
Total                                      30.60
All categories net of taxes and duties.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
19.   Until PMR-based disbursement is agreed, the current disbursement procedures will be applicable
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit. IDA would require full documentation for prior review for those
cases where contracts exceeds US$200,000 for civil works and goods, US$100,000 for services contracts
with firms and US$50,000 in case of individuals. Expenditures below the above thresholds, and
expenditures on incremental staff and operating costs would be claimed on SOEs. Under this project there
is no joint or co-financing with other bilateral or multilateral development partners and IDA will not be
admninistering funds on behalf of others.
All expenditures related to NLAO costs will be disbursed against full documentation.
Special account:
20.   To facilitate project implementation and to make timely payments of IDA's shares of eligible
expenditures to contractors, suppliers, consultants and others, the Borrower may open and maintain two
- 72 -



Special Accounts (SA) in Convertible Taka in a comnmercial bank, on terms and conditions acceptable to
IDA. One such SA is for MOL to be identified as SA-A for all categories other than works, while the
second SA is for PWD to be identified as SA-B for civil works. MOL will have access and manage the
SA-A while PWD will have access to and manage SA-B. Disbursements of eligible expenditures will be
made by the MOL and PWD directly from their respective Special Accounts. The authorized allocation for
SA-A would be equal to four months--estimated expenditures equivalent to US$1.05 million equivalent. At
the start of the project the initial deposit to SA-A will be limited to US$0.80 million equivalent. The
remaining amount of the authorized allocation may be requested only after the cumulative disbursements
reach the equivalent of SDR3.0 million. The authorized allocation for SA-B would be equal to four
months-estimated expenditures equivalent to US$0.85 million. At the start of the project the initial deposit
to SA-B will be limited to US$0.50 million equivalent. The remaining amount of the authorized allocation
may be requested only after the cumulative disbursements reach the equivalent of SDR2.0 million.
Financial Management System:
21.   Financial Management is an extremely important aspect of project management that aims at (i)
ensuring effective and efficient use of resources; (ii) facilitating better project management by providing
project management with timely financial information and progress reports on key performance indicators;
(iii) promoting accountability at various levels, and enhancing transparency on financial aspects; (iv)
establishing satisfactory internal controls to ensure that policies and procedures outlined by project
management on various operational aspects are adhered to; and (v) assisting project management in
meeting the financial reporting requirements of the Government of Bangladesh, and the World Bank. The
Bank's new initiatives for improving project Financial Management includes a possibility of moving
towards quarterly disbursement based on Project Management Reports (PMRs) indicating sources and
utilization of project funds. During project preparation, a time bound action plan is agreed to redress
weakness or inadequate financial management system of the Borrower to enable them to use PMR-based
disbursement.
22.   As part of GoB's initiative of mainstreaming project management, there will be no
"ring-fencing" through separate Project implementation Unit (PIU) in the MOL. The MOL will be
responsible for coordination of all project interventions and providing necessary support to all other
executing agencies. The Supreme Court (SC), the Judicial Administration Training Institute (JATI), and
Law Commission (LC) will execute the components related to each of these agencies, which in turn will be
coordinated and facilitated by the MOL. The Public Works Department (PWD) of the Government is the
responsible agency for implementing civil works component of the project.
23.   An assessment of the MOL's accounting, budgeting, reporting, intemal control system to meet the
Bank's financial management requirements has been carried out. The accounting and budgeting system of
the ministry have been strengthened with the support of Reforms in Expenditure and Control project
(RIBEC). Under the RIBEC project, economic and numeric classification/code have been developed to
keep track with revenue and development expenditure of the ministry. The Chief Accounts officer (CAO) of
the MOL is responsible for pre-audit of all fmancial transactions by following treasury rules, recommend
payment to Controller General of Accounts (CGA), maintain records and prepares financial statement for
the MOL. The Secretary of the MOL who acts as the Principal Accounting Officer (PAO) of the Ministry
ensures that expenditure are consistent to approved budget and activities and funds are utilized as per
policy and procedure of "Delegation of Financial Powers" of the government. The current budgeting,
accounting and internal control system in the MOL meet Bank's minimum financial management
requirements under the project. However, the system has few deficiencies that have been identified below
- 73 -



under para 19. A time bound Action Plan has been agreed with MOL to address those deficiencies and
make improvement.
An assessment of the Public Works Department (PWD) indicates the availability of a good
accounting, internal control and reporting system. The internal control system ensure an orderly and
efficient payment and procurement process. PWD has already assigned one Accounts Officer and two
Accountants to do the necessary accounting, monitoring, and reporting of the Works component of the
project.
24.   The MOL and PWD would maintain and operate one Special Account each. Both the implementing
agencies would prepare and submit two sets of Project Management Reports to IDA. The FE of MOL
would consolidate project financial information and would prepare a consolidated Financial Statement on
which annual audit will be carried.
25.   Key aspects of the Financial Management assessment and the actions agreed to be taken are given
below:
25.1  Staffing:
(a)    Key Operational Staff The most important requirement for effective financial management of the
project is the availability of adequate number and mix of skilled and experienced financial management
staff. The MOL does not have the adequate number of staff to perform internal control, accounting and
reporting responsibilities relating to the project. The Chief Accounts Officer of MOL being overburdened
with the responsibility of another ministry, is not likely to be in a position to perform project financial
management activities M ith due diligence.
It has been recommended to appoint a consultant to work as Financial Management Expert (FME) in the
MOL for a period of three years who in addition to development, updating, and operation of project
financial management system, will explore ways for mainstreaming the system into MOL's financial
management structure. Indicative Terms of Reference (TOR) for FME are included in the PIP, which
outlined the major responsibilities of the position. Agreement has been reached to appoint the FME and the
appointment of FME has been made a dated covenant ( exact date to be agreed during negotiation)
(b)   Supporting Staff There is also need for additional support to the FME and to MOL in general, for
smooth functioning of financial management system.Agreement has been reached that MOL would appoint
two additional Accountants, one from Government pool and one fixed-term consultant, to do the necessary
financial management work under the overall supervision of the FME. The process of appointing the staff
has alheady began and would be on board by Awril 30. 2001. The other Accountant (to be hired as a
consultant) will be alro be hired by April 30, 2001. Consideration will be given on sufficient computer
literacy, in addition to accounting knowledge, as a prerequisite for appointing staff in the MOL.
(c)   In order to ensure necessary accounting, reporting, monitoring and fund management of the works
component of the project, it has been recommended to appoint three financial management staff in the
PWD. Under the MOU signed with MOL, PWD has designated one Accounts Officer along with two
Accounts staff to be responsible for financial management function relating to the component of the project.
- 74 -



25.2   Accounting:
(a) The current accounting system in the MOL is adequate to capture financial data under two broad heads-
revenue and development. The project expenditure are recorded under development heads. The chart of
accounts under the two main heads are linked to numerous functional and economic classification and
accounts are maintained using single entry system. But the accounting system does not allow to provide
financial infonnation required for project management by funding source, disbursement categories and
components.
(b) To address the inadequacy of the accounting system and ensuring that funds received from different
co-financiers, World Bank, and GOB would be identified separately and reflected in the project accounts
and financial statements, a Chart of Accounts for the project covering all types of expenditure have been
prepared. The PIP of the MOL has outlined the accounting system and Chart of Accounts. The Chart of
Accounts conforms to the classification of expenditure and sources of funds indicated in the project
documents (Project Implementation Plan, Project Appraisal Document, COSTAB). Project accounts in
MOL and PWD would be maintained on double entry book keeping principles from the start of the project.
(c)    Agreement has been reached that FME will put together the financial management system outlined
in the PIP and bring those under a comprehensive project Financial Management Manual by July 2001.
(d)    The project accounting system will be computerized, which will be in place by October 2001.
25.3  Internal Control System:
(a)    The MOL follows the accounting policies and procedures to process financial transactions
developed by Ministry of Finance, delegation of financial power at various level is clearly defined and
adhered to and there are segregation of responsibilities and reporting relationships among various position
in the MOL.
(b)    The PIP of the GOB has included a project Organogram and its reporting mechanism to MOL
including the basic elements of internal control, which meet the minimum requirements. There is also need
for development of additional financial and operational controls for safeguarding project resources and
ensuring timely accounting reconciliation and physical verification of assets and records.
It has been agreed that FME of the MOL, with the help of support staff and the finance staff of PWD will
further elaborate the project internal control arrangements in the Financial Management Manual by July
2001.
25.4  Financial Reporting: The main objective of the Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs) is to provide
project management with timely information on various financial aspects. The key aspects of the PMRs and
Project Reporting arrangements are as follows:
(a)    MOL and PWD will ensure timely preparation of quarterly PMRs. MOL would be responsible for
preparing consolidated annual Financial Statements on which annual audit will be carried out. The project
financial management system will generate PMRs that will support the Withdrawal Application. Project
Monitoring Reports will show: (i) Financial Statements that include: Sources and Uses of Funds for each
quarter; year-to-date; and cumulative costs of the project to date; Usage of funds by Project Activities;
Cash Withdrawal; Cash Forecast for two quarters; and a Special Account Reconciliation Statement; (ii)
- 75 -



Output Monitoring and (iii) Procurement Management Reports. The specific formats of PMRs have been
prepared, agreed with the government, and included in the PIP.
(b)    As mentioned above, the project accounts both MOL and PWD would be maintained using
computerized accounting system, which will be in place, by October 2001. Once the computerized system
generate timely PMRs and ensures that PMRs can be relied on to support disbursement, a decision will be
taken in consultation with IDA whether this project will qualify for PMR-based disbursement starting from
July 01. 2002. PMRs will be submitted to IDA whether or not disbursement is linked to PMRs.
(c)    Disbursement of IDA funds will be made based on the traditional method until the project is
converted to the PMR-based method. MOL and PWD will submit manual reports 1A, and 3A-D for each
quarter and year-to-date from the beginning of the project.
25.5  Flow of Funds: Funds for the project would flow through MOL and PWD. MOL would disburse
IDA's funds on the recommendation of various implementing agencies. PWD headquarter would disburse
funds to eligible expenditure. Co-financing arrangements will include CIDA and DANIDA funds through a
parallel financing arrangement.
25.6   Information Flow for Accounting Purposes: In order to prepare reliable and timely
consolidated Project Management Reports (PMRs) and annual project Financial Statement, the FME will
ensure that all financial information flows through MOL. Agreement has been reached that FME would
help the MOL to develop standardized reporting formats to capture source data from various implementing
agencies on project expenditures by June 2001.
25.7   NGO Monitoring and Reporting: NGOs will be contracted to implement certain activities from
the second year of project operation. NGOs also will be selected to deliver the requisite services on the
basis of selection criteria agreed between the Bank and the MOL. The PIP includes the selection criteria
and the prerequisite for contractual agreement.
25.8   National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO): The National Legal Aid Organization (NLAO), that
has been established by GOB through an Act in 2000, to carry out the State sponsored legal aid program as
a means for improving access to justice for the underprivileged. The NLAO Act 2000 laid down policy and
procedure about the management of the funds and eligible criteria for its usage. The NLAO will receive
funds under the Project once evidence satisfactory to IDA is received that NLAO has become operational in
accordance with the recommendations of the study conducted for the purpose under the Project. The MOL
will be responsible for disbursing the funds to NLAO.
25.9   Technical Assistance: As mentioned above, the project will be implemented by a government
ministry, i.e MOL. The MOL does not have computerized accounting and sound MIS system. There is
need for Technical Assistance for the MOL to maintain project accounts using computerized system and
keep track with procurement process and contracts management through an integrated MIS. The
computerized system will also generate PMRs, which will be in place by October 2001. It has been agreed
that a local consulting firm will be hired under specific TOR in consultation with IDA to do the necessary
computerization and training of the staff. The project funds have been earmarked for the TA.
26.   Audits: This is the first IDA-financed project under the Ministry of Law and Parliamentary
Affairs, the accounts and financial statement of which will be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor
General (C&AG), through the Directorate of Audits, Foreign Aided Projects. The audited Project Financial
- 76 -



Statement (PFS), including SOE and Special Account, would be submitted to IDA within six months of the
close of every fiscal year.
Operational Audits: An independent audit firm will conduct an operational audit. IDA shall
review the terms of reference and selection method of such audit firms, and the costs for conducting such
audits will be eligible for financing under the Project. The operational audits will undertake a thorough
verification: (i) that funds have been used in accordance with the conditions of DCA and only for intended
purposes; (ii) that goods and services procured under the project are in line with the terms of DCA; (iii)
that implementing agencies, including NGOs, have maintained the necessary supporting documents, records
and accounts with respect of all project expenditures; (iv) that clear linkages exist between the Book of
Accounts and reports presented to the Bank; (v) that adequate financial and operational controls are in
place to meet project objectives; (vi) that counterpart funds have been provided and used in accordance
with the project documents; (vii) that weaknesses in the financial management systems are identified and
recommendations given for their improvement. Two such audits will be carried out: one at the end of third
year and the other one year prior to the Credit closing date.
27. Risks and risk-mitigation measures:
There is risk associated with using government's financial management system. However, the risk
is being mitigated through a time bound action plan that has been agreed with the MOL. Close field
supervision by IDA would help to ensure that agreed actions are implemented within deadlines.
28. Readiness for Implementation and Agreed Actions:
Financial Management System: Key elements of a sound Financial Management system for
BJLCBP have been included in the PIP. A Financial Management Expert of the project will prepare a
comprehensive Financial Management Manual by July 2001.
Recruitment of Key Staff: The appointment of FME has been made a dated covenants and the
exact date will be agreed during negotiations. The additional two staff will be on board by April 30, 2001.
The PWD has already designated three staff to perform related financial management activities of the
Works component.
Computerization: The Procurement Plan that includes purchase of computers is substantially
advanced. The computers would be available by June 2001. The cost of TA for computerization is
included in the project costs and the process would start by July 2001. The computerized system will be
operational by October 2001.
Standardizing reporting fornats: The Financial Management Expert of the MOL would prepare
standardized reporting formnats to capture various source data by June 2001.
PMRs and Disbursement: Disbursement from IDA funds will be made based on traditional
methods. By February 2002, a decision will be taken, in consultation with IDA, if this project will qualify
for PMR-based disbursement from July 2002.
- 77 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
P                                              Pla~MMf otirnd              AOtual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                            36
First Bank mission (identification)             04/04/97                      04/04/97
Appraisal mission departure                      11/15/99                     06/18/2000
Negotiations                                    03/15/2000                    10/16/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   03/31/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Law
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Mohsin Alikhan                    Task Leader
Akhtar Hamid                      Legal Team Coordinator
G.M. Khurshid Alam                Sr. PSD Specialist
Alfredo Danmmert                  Sr. PSD Specialist
Suraiya Zannath                   Financial Management Specialist
Visu Sinnadurai                   Sr. Judicial Specialist
Syed A. Habib                     Sr. Information Analyst
Mohi-uz-zaman Quazi               Transport Engineer
M. Aminul Haque                   Procurement Specialist
Mohammad Sayeed                   Disbursement Officer
Paul Martin                       Environment Advisor
Rachel Susan Palmer               Program Assistant
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
See Technical Document.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Quality at Entry Review (March 11, 1999)
Memoranda on the Project
Peer Reviewers Comments on PCD and PAD
Bangladesh Legal Reform Program Report (March 27, 2000) - Judge Nan R. Shuker
Workshop Findings
C. Other
Strategy for Legal and Judicial Reforms (June 19, 2000) - Government of Bangladesh
ADR Mechanisms (1998) - Justice P.N. Bhagwati
Economic Law Reform Component (1998) - David Goddard
Pocus on Gender (1998) - Asma Jahangir
Bangladesh Legal and Judicial Resources (1998) - Peter May
Judicial Discipline and Training Reforms (1998) - Judge Sandra E. Oxner
Court Administration and Case Management Elements (1998) - Robert W. Page
MIS Needs Assessment for the Judiciary (1998) - C.L.M. Reddy
MIS and Computerized Automation for the Judiciary (1998) - C.L.M. Reddy
Law Reform and the Bangladesh Law Commission (1998) - Michael W. Sayers
Cost of Litigation (1998) - Shafique Ahmed
Legal Education in Bangladesh: Search for Reforms (1998) - M. Shah Alam
Comments on Companies Act, Customs Act, Labour Laws and Legal Aid Programs (1998) - Mirza A.
Al-Farruq
Legal Drafting Capacity (1998) - M. Habibullah
Personnel System and Termns of Appointment, Salary Levels, and Performance Evaluation of the Judiciay
(1998) - M. Habibullah
Comments on Various Laws including Admiralty, Bankruptcy, Business Organization, Foreign Investrnent,
Copyright, Patents and Trademarks, Monopoly and Competition and Small Causes (1998-1999) - Syed
Mynuddin Hussain
Infrastructure Needs Assessment for the Judiciary (1998) - Abdur Rahman Khan
The Court Administration System and Judicial Budgets (1998) - Tufailur Rahman
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
31-Jul-1 999
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA        SF        GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig   Frm Reved
P058468        2000 Agricultural Serv. Innovaton & Reform               0.00       5.00                             0.00      4.45       -0.10      0.00
P009484        1996 Agriculture Research Management                     0.00      50.00                             1.37      22.85      23.55      0.00
P050745        1999 Arsenic Mitigation Water Supply                     0.00      32.40                             0.00      31.05       9.91      0.00
P009496        1995 Bangladesh Integrated Nutrition                     0.00      59.80                             0.58      33.53      20.44      0.00
P009549        1996 Coastal Embankment Rehabiltitabon                   0.00      69.50                             0.00      15.45       3.71      8.21
P009482        1997 DHAKA WATERISAN. IV                                 0.00      80.30                             0.00      56.99      39.86      0.00
P009524        1999 Dhaka Urban Transport                               0.00     177.00                             0.00     161.63      11.75      0.00
P049790        1999 Export Diversilication                              0.00      32.00                             0.00      27.05       1.72      0.00
P009555        1993 Female Secondary School                             0.00      68.00                             0.00      14.90      13.32      10.04
P044811        2000 Financial Institutions Development                  0.00      46.90                             0.00      46.16       0.00      0.00
P009470        1992 Forest Resources Management                         0.00      49.60                             3.29      9.42       11.30      4.38
P009468        2000 Fourth Fisheries                                    0.00      28.00                             0.00      26.77       2.96      0.00
P009533        1995 Gas Infrastructure Devetopment                      0.00     120.80                             0.00      50.46      53.13     55.54
P037857        1998 HEALTH AND POP PROGRAM                              0.00     250.00                             0.00     141.41     -32.41      0.00
P041887        1999 Municipal Services                                  0.00     138.80                             0.00     128.32     132.59      0.00
P009560        1996 NON-FORMAL EDUCATION                                0.00      10.50                             0.00       5.50       2.27      0.00
P044789        1998 PRIV SEC INFR DEVT                                  0.00     235.00                             0.00    224.24      121.17      0.00
P040985        1997 Poverty Alleviaton                                  0.00     105.00                             0.00       7.49      -5.60       0.00
P009550        1998 Prmary Education Development                        0.00     150.00                             0.00     141.27      36.95       0.00
P009545        1996 River Bank Protection                               0.00     166.90                             0.15      31.22       9.52      15.74
P040713        1998 SILK DEV PILOT PROJ.                                0.00      11.35                             0.00       9.76       4.71      0.00
P009465        1994 Second Road Rehabititation & Maintenance            0.00     226.80                             0.00      63.69     -18.89      0.00
P009518        1997 Second Rural Roads & Markets Improvement            0.o0     153.00                             0.00      69.46       1.99      16.97
P009540        1991 Third Inland Water Transport                        0.00      51.25                             0.00      12.40       8.08      8.10
P037294        1999 Third Road Rehabilitation & Maintenance             0.00     273.00                             0.00     245.77      16.74      0.00
Total:        0.00    2590.70                             5.39     1581.04     468.67     118.98
- 80 -



BANGLADESH
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
3 l-Jul- 1999
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               DBH                            0.00    0.65    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.65       0.00    0.00
1991               Dynamic Textile                 1.86    0.00    0.00     1.48    1.86    0.00     0.00    1.48
1998               Grameen Phone                  16.67    1.58    0.00    0.00   10.00    1.58      0.00    0.00
1985/95            IDLC                           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1980/98            IPDC                           10.00    0.00    0.00     0.00   10.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Khulna                         21.67    0.00    0.00     0.00   21.67    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        50.20     2.23    0.00     1.48    43.53    2.23    0.00    1.48
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BANGLADESH: Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
918199
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South      Low-
Bangladesh      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population, mid-year (mittions)                      125.6     1,305     3,515                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    350       430       520
GNP (Attas method, UJS$ billions)                    44.0       555      1 844
Averag annual growth, 1992-90
Population (%)                                         1.6       1.8       1.7                    -
Labor orref%)                                          2.9       2.3       1.9     GNP                              Gross
per          .                 primary
most recent estimate (lateat year available, 190246)                               capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below natilal poverty line)   36
Urban population (% of total population)               20        27        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       58        62        63
Infant mortality tper 1,000 live births)               75        77        69
Child malnutriton (% af children under 5)              56        53         ..               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 84        81        74
Illiteracy (54 of population age 15+)                  61        49        32
Gross primary enroLmont (% of school-age population)    ..       100      10B OBangladesh
Mate           :                                              10        1`13                 Low-income group
Female                                                :        90       103
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERfM TRENDS
1977     1987      1997      199
Economic ratios'
GOP (US$ bi/ions)                             9.5     23.8      41.0      42.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP                17.0    19.0       21.6      22.4                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             5.2      5.5      12.4      13.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   11.5     10.4      15.3      17.3
Gross national savingglGDP                   11,8     12.6      19.4      21.2
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                    -1,8    -4.1       -2.2      -1.2     Domestic                    Inetmn
Interest paymentsJGDP                        0.3      0.6        0.4       0.4     Savintsi                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                               26,4     42.7      36.9      38.7     Savng
Total debt service/exports                   27.8    28.0       10.6       9.3
Present value of debVGDP                       ..      ..       21.1
Present vatue of debtlexports                 ..       ..    130.1
Indebtedness
1977-8T  1988-90    1997       1998   199943
(average annual g9rwth)
GDP                                  5,0      4,7      5.4       5.0       5                    Blangbadesh
GNP per capita                       2.6      3.1      3.8       4.2       3.9                Low-icomeprouo
Exportsofgoodsandservices           4.9      14.4    14.5       14.3       9.3
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
(% of GDP)                                                                        15
Agriculture                                  37.5    31.3       23.1      22.4
Industry                                    25.0    22.2        27.1      28.281.
Manufacturing                              18.5    15.2       17.3      18.3
Services                                     37.5    46.5       49.8      49.4
Private consumption                         87.0    86.4        80.1      78.3           93   94   95   96   97   98
General govemment consumption                 1.4      3.2       4.6       4.4               -GDI         --*-GDP
Importsofgoodsandservices                    10.7    14.1       18.7      19.0
1977-87  1988-98      1997     199B      Growth rates of exports and Imports t%)
(average annual growth)                                                           e
Agriculture                                   3.6      2.6       6.1       3.0       .
Industry                                     4.3       6.9       5.6       8.3    40
Manufacturing                               2.9      7.0       6.2       9.2
Services                                      6.4      4.7       4.8       4.2    20                 t      t_
Private consumption                           5.3      4.4       2.4       1.6       
General govemment consumption                 5.3      5.9       6.0      -0.3            93         95   96   97   9
Gross domestic investment                     4.4      6.0      10.0      11.2    20
Imports of goods and services                 6.6    10.5        2.0       0.6             -E.pxns         rnpxrtx
Gross national product                        5.2      4.8       5.5       5.9
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 82 -



Bangladesh
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1977     1987       1997      1998      Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                           la0
Consumer prices                                                     2.5       7.0
Implicit GDP deflator                          -2.1     11.0        0.9       4.4      5
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o
Current revenue                                          B .7       9.3       9.7             93   94    95    96    97   9H
Current budget balance                                              2.2       2.2             -     GDP dcfiator   CPI
Overall surplusideficit                                            -4.3      -4.2
TRADE
1977     1987      1997       1998      Export and Import levels (USS mililons)
(USS milDions)
Total exports (fob)                               ..   1,074      4,427     5,172     B.oOn
Jute goods                                             104        116       108
Leather and leather products                           135        196       190     6.00-
Manufactures                                           700      3,835     4,615     400OO
Total imports (cif)                                    2,620      7,120     7,525     4,000
Food  go                                               413        197       369     2.0DD 00 '     -ddO
Fuel and energy                                ..      230        361       295
Capital goods                                  8. 56            2,000     2.072 
92   93  94   9s 96   97 9t
Exportpriceindex(1995=100)                        ,       54        103      111
Import price index (1995=100)                             79       100        98                 ZExperts      *IMos-tu
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 68        103      114
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987       1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ mi//ions)
Exports ot goods and services                  464    1,301       5,083     5,879     0
Imports of goods and services                  932    2,876       7,655     8,049
Resource balance                               -469   -1,576     -2,572    -2,170
Net income                                      -31     -122      -107      -100
Net current transfers                          325       731      1,770     1,750
Current account balance                        -174     -966      -909       -520    -4
Financing items (net)                          305    1,169        589       651
Changes in net reserves                        -130     -203       320      -131      -o
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS$ millions)                           1,719     1,739
Conversion rate (DEC, tocallUS$)               15.5     30.6       42.7      45.4
EXTERNAL DEEIT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977     1987       1997     1998
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composltion of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          2,518   10,149     15,125    16,354                      G: 181
IBRO                                          55       70         38        36                 F: 154     A: 36
IDA                                          505    2,985       5,701     6,168
Total debt service                              146      547       705       686          E: 526,180
IBRD                                           3         5         7         7
IDA                                            4        35        96       105
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                0      682        736       589
Official creditors                           274       774       326       265
Private creditors                              -1        1        -28       -23                                  C 422
Foreign investment                             0         2       -116      252                 D. 4.371
World Bank program
Commitments                                  202      415        480       655      A - IBRD                      E - 13luter.l
Disbursements                                 88      348        299       353      8 - IDA    D - Othe, ,ultdat-erl   F - PH-t.re
Principal repayments                           0         9        59        66      C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     88      339        241       308
Interest payments                              7       31         44        46
Net transfers                                 81       308       196       261
Development Economics                                                                                                     9/8199
- 83 -



Additional
Annex 11
Government's Policy Letter
, =  am,I ,J  4Abdul Matin Khasru, M.P.
Minister
^^_*Minstry of LW, &us  * Pfi r.-y AffaiM
t5ovenimeft a~t U Poples
Rspubt at Barnadu
Ohaka.
No .MO L/Pl O/Wao3/ O/ tpt 6                            Septemberl9, 2000
Sub : Policy Letter in respect of Bangladesh Legal and Judicial
CaDacity Building Project.
Dear Ms. Nishimizu.
As I write this letter, I recall with great pleasure your personal interest and support for this
project. Your colleagues have also been very supportive of our efforts in developing a good
project. I sincerely thank you and your colleagues for that.
The Govemrnment of Bangladesh attaches great importance to this project which aims at: (a)
improving the environment for doing business through a reformed antd strengthened Civil Justice
System which can efficiently and predictably enforce contractual and legal obligations, and (b)
improving access to justice, particularly for the women and poor.
I am pieased to reiterate our commitmnent to carry out reforms in the judicial and legal
setor. The judicial and legal reforms are complex and far reaching. It rnay take some time to
implement. The reforms to be undertaken have been broadly identified in the Governxent's
Strategy Paper for Legal and Judicial Reforms. While the Strategy Paper lays out the long-term
vision of needed reforms. the emphasis is on the reform of the civil justice system with a view to
enhancing its efficiency, productivity and integrity. The programme has been prepared utilizing
the services and diagnostic skills of local and international experts. and through an extensive
participatory approach, including workshop held across the country, and consultation with
representatives of the civil society, the Bench, the Bar and NGOs.
Since the project will address the most pressing problems of accessibility, efficiency and
effectiveness of our civil justice system through introduction of modem  case management
measures including alternative dispute rcsolution mechanisms, automation of court operations.
streamlining court administration and increased access to justice on the part of the poor. the
disadvantaged and women.
In this connection, we are especially rnindful of the need to reduce the huge backlog of
cases that has been building up in the Supreme Court as well as the District Courts to the
detriment of the litigating public and the business environment The courts will be provided the
tools, the training. the infrastructure and the organizational and financial autonomy they will need
for these purposes. We are pleased that the Supreme Court is also supportive of the projeCL The
hlon bie Chief Justice of Bangladesh has been pleased to direct the Registrar of the Court to play a
key role in bringing the reforms to fruition. The Supreme Court as well as the District Court
Judges are fully sensitized and enlightened about this project and they are fully prepared to
support this project in every possible manner.
Finally, we have spared no effort to ensure that the reforms will respond particularly to the
needs of the underprivileged, including women and the poor. In this connection, steps are also
planned and will be taken to enhance both state- and community- supported legal aid and legal
literacy programmes.
I am also pleased-to note that other development parers namely CIDA and DANIDA will
be parallel-financing certain components of the project. viz, the Law Commission (BLC). the
Judicial Administration Training Institute (JATI) and the Legislative Drafting Wing of the
Ministry of Law. Justice & Parliamentarv Affairs of the Govemment of Bantladesh
Bangitoesh Socrelala, LBuiding No.-4. Dhaka-1O00. Phon : 860577. i50627 107f.). 8428e5. 9341234 (Res.)
Fax: 00(80-2) 866557
- 84 -



Abdul Matin Khasru, M.P.
t                             - -'                                     Minister
*i7                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Go"er.nern of thle People
e                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Republic .i Bangladesh
Dhaka.
You will be happy to note that a number of actions have been initiated by the concemed
agencies involved with the project. The Drafting Wing in the Ministry of Law. Justice and
Parliamentary Affairs (MOL) has been created and the process is fast underway to appoint capable
officers for that Wing. The Judicial Administration Training Institute's (JATI) Board of Govemors
has approved a 4-year training plan and the Government has allotted a piece of valuable land at the
heart of the capital city for the construction of the Institute Complex. The Draft Bill for
amendment of the existing Law Commission Act to further strengthen the Law Commission has
been approved by the Cabinet. A new Copyright Law has recently been enacted. A number of
other Bills on laws like Arbitration. Trade Mtarks. Admiralry, etc. which would have a positive
impact on the private sector and facilitate greater flow of foreign direct investment have been
drafted by the Law Commission and aie now fast underway towards formal legislation. Finally,
we have taken advantage of the developments in the information technology to codify and place
Bangladesh laws enacted until 1938 and codified in II volumes of Bangladesh Code on to a CD-
ROM which will be made available to the judicial and legal community. Work to put the
remaining Bangladesh Laws oh to a CD-ROM and to put all reported cases of Bangladesh
Supreme Court on to a CD-ROM will also be undertaken.
That Government believes in the separation and independence of the judiciary. For that
matter appropriate steps are being taken. It has already initiated the process of delegating more
financial powers and autonomy to the Supreme Court. The Hon'ble Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina
is also very keen to se ihat the judiciary as a whole institutionally develops and improves as an
effective and credible forum for adjudication of disputes.
This letter conveys our Government's collective deternination to go ahead with the judicial
reform programme, which will bring about both qualitative and quantitative changes in the judicial
system. The Government of Bangladesh under the leadership of Sheikh Hasina is fully aware that
a properly fumctioning legal and judicial framework is very important for good govemance as well
as fostering rapid development of the country's economy. Therefore. she attaches great importance
to building a credible and people-friendly legal and judicial framework befitting a modem.
forward-looking and rule-based society.
We believe that the implementation of this Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
will go a long way towards achieving this goal and the Govenmecnt is fully committed to it.
Necessary arrangements can now follow for holding Negotiations as scheduled for the proposed
Credit agreement.
Once again I personally thank you for the support shown by yourself and the Bank to
Banigladesh.
A 
Sincerely Yours.
(Abdul Matin Khasru)
Ms. Mitko Nishimizu
Vice President
World Bank
Washington D.C.
Bangladesh Secrertarit. Bulkding No.-4, Dhaka-1000. Phone: 860577, 8Eo627 (Off.). 842855, 9341234 (Res.)
Fax: oM80-21 88ea557
- 85 -



Additional
Annex 12
Acceptability Criteria for National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
To address the shortcomings experienced in some earlier IDA funded projects, covering a wide
range of sectors, NCB procedures would meet the requirement listed below. It is noted that ERD
Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works financed under Project Aid dated May 1992 (ERD
Guidelines) already cover some of the requirements herein set forth. In accordance with Page 58,
Paragraph 5 of the ERD Guidelines, if there are any inconsistencies between the provisions of the ERD
Guidelines and those provided in the aid agreements or by the Development Partners, the provisions of the
latter, unless modified or relaxed, will prevail.
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions of
Section I of the Guidelines:
i.    Invitations to bids shall be advertised in at least one widely circulated national daily newspaper, at
least 28 days prior to the deadline for the submission of bids;
ii.    Bidding documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to all who are willing to pay the
required fee;
iii.    Evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed in the bidding
documents, in a format and specified period agreed by the Association;
iv.    Bids shall be opened in one place immediately after the deadline for submission of bids;
v.     Eligibility requirements shall be common for national and foreign bidders. Foreign bidders meeting
these requirements shall not be precluded from bidding and no preference of any kind shall be given to
national bidders;
vi.    Qualification criteria (in case of prequalification was not carried out) shall be stated in the bidding
documents, and, if registration process is required, a foreign finn declared as lowest evaluated bidder shall
be given reasonable opportunity of registering;
vii.    Contracts shall be awarded to the responsive lowest evaluated bidders;
viii.   Post bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other bidders;
ix.    Bid shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an official estimate without the
prior concurrence of the Association;
x.     Rebidding shall not be carried out without the Association's prior concurrence.
xi.    All bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as indicated in the bidding/contract
documents;
xii.    A bidder's bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a contractor's performance security
shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished;
- 86 -



xiii.   Bid shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount over the estimated cost;
xiv.   Extension of bid validity shall not be allowed unless justified by exceptional circumstances; and
xv.    There shall not be any restriction on the means of delivery of the bids.
- 87 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 24206R1
BANGLADESH
Thokurgoon                                                                                            DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
IHAKiRGAON           NilPHAMARI                                                                          DIVISION BOUNDARIES
Nilph-                                                                            I -   NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
',    DINA PL R                     ,    
oD-najpur            OB                                                    MILES  0            25           sD           75
\,,~~~~~~~~~~.b d   a                                                        I    I    I    7
<        z \ Jr,                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS  0  25  so   75      100
GA18ANDH 
GAN     - -P1 IlDYPUWHAT                                         59                                        L HEPU
@   NA05A0N      o.Ioypurhot                                                             Sur,-g-r nlo
A /  A  J S  H  1A  H  t                             OeprNTOOA                                     SUNAMGANJ             SYLHET 
0 Bo'o       JlJAMALPLR     w                   ONetrokono                          Sylhet
i   t       ~~~~Naogaon, o        O Bogra    ,                                                 ;     r,y I i               T
oS<OW) GANJ                       BOGRA                               Wyrer,irgh                         Y        L    H     E   T
2  D    H    A                  AMYMFNSINGH
RSHAHSA NKishorgonj    HAB,GANj                                                                              M Boni
S.raig-i          K     A                           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~MOULVI BAZAR7
RAJSHI-AHI    NATORE          KgSHORGANJ
'Notore    SERAGANJ        TANGAIL                        HIb,N Hoganj
0 G                      1  ~~~~~~~~~                                       ~~OTa.ngaBo'l' ,
Gotrge R.                   jGAZIPUR
INDIA                              FAN                                 0 Pba       G..ip.r NARSINGD  AI 
INDIA  5  KUS     HTISw1                        t MSHAKA                 B Boria                   INDIA
|OMehrPUR  K   0                                                                                        INDIARoibori 0  NARAVA   AN.
A  Chisodongo  RAIBARI~~~~~~~~RAA 
CAUA$DANGA    Jailteid.h                0                Nor
4-hENA16AH                   Foricps        MLINSH     j       COMiLLA                             >      I
,  JHENAILO,AH     h    ~FARIDPUR  ^<    St                       Cmla\     
SARIAT        AN DPUR
JESSORE     NARAR             MADARIPUR              o Ch-cdpur                          NfAGRACHHARJ
;7  Jessore  NCNrail GpLGtJModarip.ro    t                                \ 
NOAK1HALI   FN       *K KhgroChhorI
The soop sco t epord,                                                      5
oftA Wol Eon)W9t                                                                      J      8     v;oaldro, 
deomooans cod orsnye           Hto Boirdorbon I
oahr inceoronot of suhown                    }%(              
on this     It doro ro
INDIA~~~~~~VHR KHLN   GE  HA
orly on tt e  oto                                             o
(L  <   aFN^                                                                                                                         \          i~~~~~L 
The World Book  9r8
orb- cdoroonton
BANoBA                                                                                                               GOBEGA
t~~ of -    A'f O
,y -dy-t-2~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MA18



