                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR00001200



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA 34850 TF0 27508)



                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT


                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 23.6 MILLION
                           (US$ 30.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                          TO THE

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                          FOR A

                LEGAL AND JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT



                                        May 14, 2010




Finance and Private Sector Department
South Asia Region

Legal Department
                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            Exchange Rate Effective: October 13, 2009

             Currency Unit = Bangladeshi Taka (BDT)
                       0.01476 = US$ 1.00
                        US$ 1.00 = 70.16

                         FISCAL YEAR
                         July 1 ­ June 30


              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



ADAB     Association of Development Agencies in Bangladesh
ADB      Asian Development Bank
ADR      Alternative Dispute Resolution
BNP      Bangladesh Nationalist Party
C&AG     Comptroller and Auditor General of Bangladesh
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFS      Central Filing System
CG       Consultative Group
CIDA     Canadian International Development Agency
CMIS     Court Management Information System
CPC      Civil Procedure Code
CRO      Civil Rules Order
DANIDA   Danish International Development Assistance
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DFID     Department for International Development
DW       Drafting Wing
FM       Financial Management
GOB      Government of People's Republic of Bangladesh
IDA      International Development Association
IDF      Institutional Development Fund
ISR      Implementation Status Report
IT       Information Technology
JAO      Judicial Administrative Officer
JATI     Judicial Administration Training Institute
LACI     Loan Administration Change Initiative
LC       Law Commission
LJC      Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project
LSSC     Legal Services Support Committee
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MHPW     Ministry of Housing and Public Works
MOL    Ministry of Law and Parliamentary Affairs
MOU    Memorandum of Understanding
MTR    Mid Term Review
NGO    Non-Government Organization
NLAO   National Legal Aid Organization
O&M    Operations and Maintenance
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PD     Project Director
PDO    Project Development Objective
PHRD   Policy and Human Resource Development Fund (Japan)
PMR    Project Management Report
POC    Project Oversight Committee
PP     Procurement Plan
PREM   Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
PRSP   Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PSD    Private Sector Development
PWD    Public Works Department
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
QER    Quality Enhancement Review
SA     Special Account
SC     Supreme Court of Bangladesh
SCIC   Supreme Court Implementation Committee
SOE    Statement of Expenditures
SP     Strategy Paper
WBOD   World Bank Office Dhaka

                 Vice President: Isabel Guerrero
               Country Director: Ellen A. Goldstein
                Sector Manager: Joel Hellman
            Project Team Leader: G.M. Khurshid Alam
              ICR Team Leader: Luba Beardsley
                                              BANGLADESH
                                 Legal and Judicial Capacity Building Project

                                                          CONTENTS



Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ...............................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .........................................................17
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance......................................................18
  6. Lessons Learned ........................................................................................................23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ...........26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ..........................................................................27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ..................................................................................31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................41
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............42
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................44
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ...................................................49
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................50
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................58
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................59
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                       Legal and Judicial
Country:                Bangladesh              Project Name:          Capacity Building
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P044810                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-34850,TF-27508
ICR Date:               05/30/2010              ICR Type:              Intensive Learning ICR
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:              GOB
Original Total
                        USD 30.6M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 24.7M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 20.6M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Law and Justice
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 DANIDA
 CIDA

B. Key Dates
                                                                             Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/27/1998     Effectiveness:                            10/23/2001
Appraisal:            06/29/2000     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             03/29/2001     Mid-term Review:        05/27/2005        09/26/2005
                                     Closing:                06/30/2007        12/31/2008

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Unsatisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Unsatisfactory                         Moderately Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Unsatisfactory                         Unsatisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           No                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Law and justice                                                        100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to law and justice                                               23                  80
Gender                                                                  11
Judicial and other dispute resolution mechanisms                        22
Law reform                                                              22                  10
Legal services                                                          22                  10

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:             Isabel M. Guerrero                   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:           Ellen A. Goldstein                   Frederick Thomas Temple
Sector Manager:             Joel Hellman                         Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project Team Leader:        Lubomira Zimanova Beardsley          Mohsin Alikhan
ICR Team Leader:            Lubomira Zimanova Beardsley
ICR Primary Author:         Frances M. Allen


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives are (a) to improve the legal and judicial enviornment
by improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability of the civil justice delivery
system, and (b) increase access to justice, particulary for women and the poor.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



                                                 ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                  approval           Target        Completion or
                                                documents)           Values        Target Years
                User satisfaction with: (a) the fairness of court processes and enforcement
Indicator 1 :
                decisions; (b) the availability of ADR; (c) accesibility of legal information.
                                            Some
                                            improvement - On
                                            an avearge 40%
Value
                                            increase in ADR
quantitative or Low                                                             Low
                                            use over previous
Qualitative)
                                            years ADR
                                            disposal in the five
                                            pilolt Districts.
Date achieved 10/01/2003                    12/30/2008                          12/21/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                User satisfaction with (a) the accessibility and efficiency of small causes courts;
Indicator 2 : (b) the ADR (including traditional shalish system) as administered by legal
                NGOs; (c) the utilization of legal aid;
                                                                                ADR failed due to
                                            Some
                                                                                opaque incentives
                                            improvement -
                                                                                of laywers.
Value                                       atleast 3000
                                                                                NLAO marginally
quantitative or Low                         people receive
                                                                                established and not
Qualitative)                                legal aid in 05
                                                                                fully functional.
                                            pilot Districts in
                                                                                Component funds
                                            2008.
                                                                                not used.
Date achieved 10/01/2003                    12/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                approval                      Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                       Target Years
                Improved case management and court administration initiated in Supreme Court
Indicator 1 :
                and the pilot districts.
Value           Traditional system, no    Case mangement                    Case management
(quantitative   ADR, cases filed in       instituionalized in               not
or Qualitative) individual courts, manual the pilot Districts               institutionalized,


                                                iii
                process.                   and Supreme                        courts reverted back
                                           Court; sustained                   to original system.
                                           clearance rate of
                                           atleast 1.10; about
                                           2000 cases
                                           disposed by ADR
                                           in the pilot
                                           Districts
Date achieved 10/01/2003                   12/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of Judges and personnel trained in case management, court
Indicator 2 : administration, and in new technology; progress in Completion of construction
                of Judicial Training Institute(JATI).
                                                                              Trainings not being
                                            Judges and staff                  held due to
Value                                       regularly receive                 inavailability of
(quantitative   None                        all necessary                     trainers and lack of
or Qualitative)                             training in the new               budgetary funds.
                                            JATI building.                    Building
                                                                              deteriorated.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Numbers of Court Houses upgraded. New Court rooms help judges use court full
Indicator 3 : time without sharing with others resulting in increase in judges time available
                for judicial work.
                Court Houses in 24          100% of all buding                Civil works
Value
                Districts does not have construction                          (including minor)
(quantitative
                enough space for the        completed and                     completed in 52
or Qualitative)
                judges.                     being used.                       courts.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A refined Code of Conduct; Case Management and Court Administration
Indicator 4 : (CMCA) Performance Standards implemented in the Supreme Court and the
                pilot Districts; Publication of Supreme Court#s annual report;
                                            Proper Code of
                There is code of Conduct
                                            Conduct that
                for Supreme Court
                                            recognizes
                Judges. District level
Value                                       performace
                judges are guided by
(quantitative                               objective devloped                Not achieved.
                Civil Service Conduct
or Qualitative)                             for all judges.
                rules. Supreme Court
                                            Supreme Court
                does not publish annual
                                            regularly publishes
                reports.
                                            Annual Report.



                                                iv
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                More poor people seek Legal aid instituted by the Government; Accessibility of
Indicator 5 : legal information to be improved; Improvement of access to justice, especially
                for women and the poor.
                                            The number
                                            accessing legal aid
                Very negligible numbers will increase 100%
                accessed Government         by 2006 over that
                                                                              NLAO marginally
Value           legal aid funds until 2002, of 2005. NGOs
                                                                              established. Not
(quantitative   because of procedural       work in
                                                                              fully functional
or Qualitative) hassles. Access to legal augmenting access
                                                                              (one staff member).
                information and justice to justice and
                for the poor limited.       legal literacy to the
                                            poor in the pilot
                                            Districts
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008                        12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of Judges and personnel trained in case management, court
Indicator 6 : administration, and in new technology; progress in Completion of construction
                of Judicial Training Institute(JATI).
                                            Judges and staff
Value                                       regularly receive
(quantitative   None                        all necessary
or Qualitative)                             training in the new
                                            JATI building.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Numbers of Court Houses upgraded. New Court rooms help judges use court full
Indicator 7 : time without sharing with others resulting in increase in judges time available
                for judicial work.
                Court Houses in 24          100% of all buding
Value
                Districts does not have construction
(quantitative
                enough space for the        completed and
or Qualitative)
                judges.                     being used.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                A refined Code of Conduct; Case Management and Court Administration
Indicator 8 : (CMCA) Performance Standards implemented in the Supreme Court and the
                pilot Districts; Publication of Supreme Court#s annual report;
Value           There is code of Conduct Proper Code of


                                                v
(quantitative   for Supreme Court         Conduct that
or Qualitative) Judges. District level    recognizes
                judges are guided by      performace
                Civil Service Conduct     objective devloped
                rules. Supreme Court      for all judges.
                does not publish annual   Supreme Court
                reports.                  regularly publishes
                                          Annual Report.
Date achieved 12/31/2002                  12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                More poor people seek Legal aid instituted by the Government; Accessibility of
Indicator 9 : legal information to be improved; Improvement of access to justice, especially
                for women and the poor.
                                            The number
                                            accessing legal aid
                Very negligible numbers will increase 100%
                accessed Government         by 2006 over that
Value           legal aid funds until 2002, of 2005. NGOs
(quantitative   because of procedural       work in
or Qualitative) hassles. Access to legal augmenting access
                information and justice to justice and
                for the poor limited.       legal literacy to the
                                            poor in the pilot
                                            Districts
Date achieved 12/31/2002                    12/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                             IP              Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     10/02/2001         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     04/02/2002         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     2.05
  3     09/28/2002         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     3.10
  4     03/27/2003         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     4.03
  5     09/25/2003         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     5.18
  6     03/25/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     6.54
  7     09/23/2004         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                     9.26
  8     06/02/2005     Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory            12.65
  9     12/19/2005         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   15.22
 10     06/05/2006         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   17.07
 11     12/28/2006         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   19.51
 12     06/25/2007         Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                   19.65


                                                 vi
 13    12/18/2007       Satisfactory              Satisfactory          20.43
 14    06/26/2008   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   22.13
 15    01/06/2009   Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory   23.89


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                          vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Bangladesh's Constitution came into effect in December 1972, and contains quite stringent
safeguards for judicial independence. Rather than being strengthened and consolidated, those
safeguards have been diluted over the years through a number of constitutional amendments as
political actors have sought to consolidate political and economic power.

The Supreme Court(SC) is at the apex of the formal court system. While the 1972 Constitution
provided that judges of the SC would be appointed by the President "...after consultation with
the Chief Justice", this constitutional requirement of consultation was removed in 1975 and the
power of appointment is today effectively exercised by the Prime Minister. The provisions
relating to removal of judges were also diluted. Article 114 of the Constitution provides for
subordinate courts, which were to be under the SC. However, the subordinate judiciary came
under the control of the executive in 1975, which meant that appointments of officers in the
judicial service and magistrates exercising judicial functions were made in accordance with the
Bangladesh Civil Service Recruitment Rules. Further, officers appointed in the administration
cadre of the civil service could be vested with the power of magistracy. Control over posting,
promotion and leave was exercised by the Government of Bangladesh (Government). The issue
of judicial independence was brought to a head in the Appellate Division case of Masdar
Hossain v. the State (hereinafter referred to as the Masdar Hossain judgment) (1999). The court
provided a number of directives for the Government, which sought to give control of the
subordinate judiciary to the SC and instill greater judicial independence. The judgment affirmed
that the judicial service is "functionally and structurally distinct and separate service from the
civil, executive and administrative services of the Republic".1 Implementation of this judgment
was delayed by successive Governments for nearly a decade.

Several dynamics have restricted the autonomy and performance of the judiciary in independent
Bangladesh. Military rule during almost half of the period since independence has denied
Bangladesh a period of democratic consolidation and the development of a constitutional culture.
Secondly, public life and institutions have become increasingly politicized since Bangladesh's
return to multiparty electoral politics in 1991, with both bureaucratic and political arms of the
executive developing clientelistic relationships with parts of the judiciary and keeping firm
control of appointments. At the same time, a decline in both judicial integrity and quality have
been aided by a drastic fall in the real and relative value of judicial salaries and benefits and the
failure to preserve non-material incentives (such as status and prestige) for judicial service.

Excessive delays seriously compromise the ability of the court system to enforce contracts and
property rights -- a civil case may on average take five years to resolve between filing and the

1
  It also held that Article 115 does not provide the executive with any rule-making authority with regard to other
terms and conditions of service; Article 133, 136 of the Constitution and Services (Reorganization and Conditions)
Act 1975 have no application in respect of the judicial functions.


                                                        1
decision of a district court. The delays reflect the lack of modern case management; weak court
administration; and deliberate delays on the part of litigants (and their lawyers) to avoid
resolution when their cases are weak. Contract enforcement is rarely pursued in the courts, and
often occurs through reliance on criminal elements. The ability of the Bangladeshi judicial
system to enforce its own judgments is low.

Bangladesh's two main political parties -- the Awami League and the Bangladesh Nationalist
Party ­ have alternated in power since 1991. During the late 1990s, the then Awami League
Government recognized the "significance of a well-functioning legal and judicial system to the
financial, commercial, and industrial life of the nation" and the need to remove the constraints on
the system. Its Fifth Five-Year Plan (FY1997-2002) acknowledged that "the judicial process is
...cumbersome and time-consuming" and the legal framework is sometimes inadequate. The
Plan also pointed out that legal and judicial reforms are "essential for the creation of an enabling
environment for the private sector to flourish and maximize its contribution to a sustained
growth." The Government decided to undertake a reform program with a view to making the
civil justice system more effective, efficient and accessible and requested a credit from the
World Bank (Bank).

The Bank capitalized on the Government's request for a project, with the entry point being the
private sector. Following an ongoing analytical report on the overall governance landscape,
"Government that Works", discussions were held with Ministry of Law (MOL) officials
regarding a possible intervention. To support this analysis and to prepare a project, the
Government requested a PHRD Grant2 (Grant). The study prepared under the Grant eventually
formed the bulk of the Government's Strategy for Legal and Judicial Reforms3 (the Strategy),
which was adopted as per the Government's Policy Letter. (See also Section 2.1. Project
Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry).

The Project was consistent with the goal of the 2000 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) to
reform institutions to support the enabling environment for private-sector led growth and for
better delivery of core public services. The need to build and support effective institutions
underpinned the strategic priorities of the CAS. Reform of the justice delivery system was
central to the institutional development goal of the project.

To assist with the design of the project, the MOL appointed a team which worked with the
Registrars' office in the SCSC. The Strategy was finalized around this time, and the design of
the project incorporated many elements of the Strategy, together with inputs from the SC/MOL
team. In hindsight, although there appears to have been good cooperation between the Bank and
the Government, it seems the Government agreed to the project (design) while not being fully
committed to the reforms.

Context during implementation phase


2
    TF 27508

3
    September 14, 2000


                                                 2
Soon after the project was approved by the Bank's Executive Board, the Awami League lost
office to the BNP, which governed from October 2001 until October 2006. After the political
crisis which emerged in late 2006, a military-backed Caretaker Government took office in
January 2007. Thus, while the Awami League Government was the counterpart for the design
and preparation of the Project, the BNP and Caretaker Governments were the counterparts during
the implementation of the Project. There appear to have been problems with ownership of the
project at both political and bureaucratic levels from its earliest days.

The Government continued to publicly support various aspects of the reform agenda, as reflected
in the 2005 Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), including separation of the executive
from the judiciary. However, the process of capture of the courts and other public sector
institutions continued to increase during much of the implementation period and the Government
sought numerous stays on execution of the Masdar Hossain judgment. While executive
influence over the lower courts had long been a problem, there was increasing evidence of such
influence over the upper judiciary. The desire to limit the extent to which the SC SC could fetter
executive power through the prerogative writ jurisdiction led to greater control over the upper
courts.

The Caretaker Government which took office in January 2007 attempted an ambitious
governance and institutional reform effort, which included the implementation of the Masdar
Hossain judgment. On January 16, 2007, the process began with gazette notifications of four
sets of rules. 4 With the passage of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code on November 1,
2007, the judiciary was said to be formally separated from the executive. In an effort to reduce
the politicization of upper court appointments, the CTG also established a body for making
appointments to the High Court and the Appellate Divisions of the SC, a body that ceased to
exist in February 2009.

While there was an expectation amongst some quarters that formal separation would help to
facilitate an independent judiciary, the courts appear to have functioned as before.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project development objectives were to improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and
accountability of the civil justice delivery system, and increase access to justice, particularly for
women and the poor. The overall results of the project were supposed to provide a foundation
for protecting against corruption and improving governance in the country.



4
  The Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) Ordinance 2007 [Ordinance No. II of 2007]; Bangladesh Judicial
Service Commission Rules, 2007; Bangladesh Judicial Service (Pay- Commission) Rules, 2007 and Bangladesh
Judicial Service Commission (Construction of Service, Appointments in the Service and Suspension, Removal &
Dismissal from the Service) Rules, 2007 & Bangladesh Judicial Service (Posting, Promotion, Grant of Leave,
Control, Discipline and other Condition of Service) Rules, 2007.


                                                    3
The achievement of the overall objective by the end of the project (FY2007 ­ although the
project actually closed on December 31, 2008), was to be measured by the public's perception of
the efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of the courts, and the availability of other ­ more
convenient and less costly ­ means of access to justice. Progress in achieving the broader
objectives was to be measured by significantly improved civil court service delivery standards.
Progress by mid-term review (MTR) was to be measured both qualitatively and quantitatively,
by comparing benchmarks that were to be developed in the first six months of the project.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The PDO and the Key Indicators of the project were not revised during the implementation of the
project.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from
the project)

The project was intended to improve the legal and institutional framework for doing business,
but also aimed at providing benefits beyond the business community to society at large and the
underprivileged in particular, through providing better legal service, building legal awareness
among citizens by informing and educating them about their rights; and explaining ways for
using the judicial system including accessing the existing legal aid system.

The project also targeted more specific beneficiaries in the justice sector, especially members of
the legal profession, judges and court personnel. By making theJATI (JATI) operational, the
Project aimed to fill a long-standing void in training for judges and building of core
competencies. By acquiring a direct role in planning and spending, the judiciary would take the
first steps toward assuming responsibility over its own affairs. Improved case management and
court processes would be of particular benefit to users, the financial sector in particular, and
those who work in courts.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The project was designed to have five components: (i) Judicial Capacity Building; (ii) Improving
Access to Justice; (iii) Legal Reform Capacity Building; (iv) Preparation of Future Reforms; and
(v) Project Implementation and Related Services.

(i)    Judicial Capacity Building - $25.44 million

This component included six sub-components to reduce delays in bringing cases to a conclusion,
and to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the courts generally. To this end, structures
were to be put in place to enable the judges to devote more time to trial work and less to
administrative duties, and to modernize court administration practices at the national and district
levels (Subcomponent 1). Case management and case classification systems (Subcomponent 2)

                                                 4
were to be changed to streamline the court process. These were to be supported by investments
in physical infrastructure (Subcomponent 6) and automation, including installation of Court
Management Information System (Subcomponent 3). Training capacity was to be strengthened
through building a training facility and upgrading training management capacity.
(Subcomponent 4). This was to be complemented by a set of activities aimed at improving
judges' working conditions and facilitating the change of institutional culture in courts
(Subcomponent 5).

(ii)    Improving Access to Justice; Promoting Legal Literacy and Public Awareness - $3.09
        million

This component had two subcomponents: (i) Improvement of Access to Justice; and (ii)
Promotion of Legal Literacy and Public Awareness.

Measures were to be taken to close the gender gap and enhance gender sensitivity in the
judiciary. Affirmative action criteria were to be applied to improve women's representation on
the bench. Judges and their staff were to be given training in gender sensitivity. Existing formal
and informal dispute resolution mechanisms intended to benefit the underprivileged were to be
strengthened. In addition, the Government was to establish the National Legal Aid Organization
(NLAO) and District Legal Aid Committees to make them more effective and accessible to the
underprivileged and the poor. IDA Funds were to be made available to match the existing
funding in the NLAO and district legal aid committees, which were to be initiated in the Stage I
and Stage II districts, once the NLAO fund was operationalized. At the grassroots level, legal
literacy public awareness and shalish services were to be improved, expanded and carried out by
qualified Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs). The outreach efforts of NGOs working in
this area were to be extended and assistance was to be provided to develop new modules and
materials. Small Causes Courts were to be revitalized and the special procedures already
prescribed for small causes were to be assiduously followed. Finally, the Bar Council and Bar
Association were to train and educate their members about the reforms and their intended
benefits.

(iii)   Legal Reform Capacity Building - $0.0 million (Judicial Training cofinanced partly by
        DANIDA; Legal Reform Capacity Building cofinanced by CIDA)

This component was aimed at supporting judicial reform being carried out under Components 1
and 2, which would involve legislative changes. The institutions primarily responsible for
assisting the Government in this process (the Law Commission [LC] and MOL's Drafting Wing)
were to be strengthened.

(iv)    Preparation of Future Reforms/ Other Studies - $0.78 million

This component aimed to support future reforms to facilitate the judiciary becoming responsible
for its own affairs as a separate branch of Government. Studies were to be undertaken to give
final shape to the proposed structure and terms of reference for: (i) a central administrative
office for the judiciary; (b) a national judicial pay commission; (iii) a judicial service
commission; all of which were proposed to be dealt with under subsequent phases of the judicial

                                                5
reform program as outlined in the Government's Strategy. This was to provide an important link
to Government's commitment to undertake the program of judicial reform, in line with the
Bank's desire to support Governmnet's efforts.

(v)      Project Implementation and Related Services - $1.29 million

This component aimed to coordinate and facilitate project implementation carried out by the
MOL. The MOL was to be responsible for financial reporting and auditing, the legal services
fund, technical services through the Technical Advisor, and coordinating project activities. The
MOL was also expected to facilitate procurement of goods, works, and services, in close
consultation and coordination with the different implementing entities under the Project, while
the Public Works Department (PWD) would be responsible for procurement of civil works.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised during the implementation of the project.

The MTR however, suggested that a restructuring would be necessary for the legal aid / legal
literacy component (since no money had been disbursed) in order to give qualified NGOs access
to the legal aid funds. It was indicated that the proposed restructuring would also have a positive
impact on future Project disbursements. Disbursements did increase following the MTR, picking
up from US$ 15.2 million to US$23.8 million at the end of the project, but this appears to be
more attributable to the shift of funds from the consultant services category to the civil works
category (for the judicial infrastructure component). The restructuring of the legal aid / legal
literacy component was never prepared nor presented to the Bank's Executive Board and there is
no mention of it in subsequent reporting. Eventually, the legal aid component did not disburse at
all, and this part of the credit was cancelled at completion. 5
It is clear that the Judicial Capacity Component should have been also revised (in the form of
restructuring following the MTR), once it became obvious that the case management and court
administration reform outputs and outcome targets were no longer feasible.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Closing Date Extension


5
  The MTR attempted to place a greater focus on accountability of institutions, transparency and data collection, and
access issues. It recommended that the case management system be extended to criminal cases. There were also a
number of recommendations relating to transparency and information: increasing public access to laws and legal
judgments; publication of an annual report and user surveys on the state of the courts The recommendations also
traversed a greater focus on judicial accountability: codes of conduct for judges, performance standards and
evaluation systems, strengthened court inspection systems; an enhanced role for the judicial services commission.
Since none of the project funds provided for legal aid in civil cases had been disbursed through the Government
legal aid system at the time of the review, it also recommended that consideration be given to disbursing these funds
to NGOs.


                                                         6
The Project became effective on November 23, 2001 and its original closing date was June 31,
2007. The closing date was extended for 18 months, to December 31, 2008, following the MTR
in December 2005, for the following reasons: (i) the Center at the University of Maryland
(IRIS)hired to assist the Government with the implementation of the Component 1 and the
Reform Advisory Consultants (RAC) hired to supervise the IRIS contract started their work later
than expected; (ii) to allow the case management and court administrations reforms to be rolled-
out to the Stage II district courts and (iii) to allow the legal aid funds to be accessed by NGOs.
Notwithstanding this extension, none of these three activities were implemented within the
additional allocated timeframe.

The original Development Credit Agreement (DCA) dated April 30, 2001 was amended twice.
The first amendment in was made in 2002 was made to, inter alia, (i) add and delete the names of
Stage II district courts (adding Brahman Baria and deleting Noakhali); (ii) allow additional time
to strengthen the financial management system; and (iii) allow for the provision of utilities and
supplies for operating and maintaining office buildings acquired for purposes of the Project.

The second Amendment was undertaken in 2007, approximately 18 months before the revised
closing date, to allow for Project financing of eight new district court buildings exclusively for
civil works.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project preparation was very extensive, owing partially to the Grant which was secured in
the amount of US$ 312,700 in May 1997. Local and international consultants were financed out
of the proceeds of the Grant to carry out a major diagnostic study on the courts' legal framework,
organization, processes and management, and training needs.                   The findings and
recommendations of the study were subsequently reviewed and confirmed in stakeholder
discussions at workshops across Bangladesh. The reports and workshop deliberations resulted in
a Strategy outlining the GOB's strategy for a comprehensive 10-15 year legal and judicial
capacity-building program. (See also Section 1.1 Context at Appraisal).

A Quality Enhancement Review (QER) was carried out in March 1999 by the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). The QER Panel commended the team on the comprehensive scope of the Project,
and made the following key recommendations: (i) phasing, prioritization and sequencing and
the use of piloting during implementation so as to build on pilot successes and to ease the
burden; (ii) concentration on early measurable and visible outcomes; (iii) focusing on a more
limited number of laws under the legal reform component; (iv) need for baseline data; and lastly,
(v) pilot courts for the court administration and case management interventions. The QER Panel
also recommended that incremental recurrent cost implications be fully assessed in relation to the
Government's public expenditures program, and a realistic assessment of Government financial



                                                7
resource availability. Almost all of the QER's recommendations were incorporated into the
Project design.

The overall risk rating for this Project was "substantial". The biggest risks to the project
(substantial risks) were (i) capacity constraints in the leading institutions (the SC, the MoL, the
LC and the JATI) and the resistance to the proposed reform changes by judges and other legal
professionals. The more moderate risks included weak leadership and commitment to the
reforms, low implementation capacity (coordination, procurement and financial management),
and lack of Government's funds (for operational and maintenance costs).

In retrospect, it can be said that the risk assessment was less than accurate in terms of the depth
of the problems - and consequently the effectiveness of the proposed mitigation measures were
not as stringent as would have been desirable, given the lack of leadership commitment and
implementation capacity. It is also possible to conclude that the project would have had much
greater impact if the QER's recommendations were truly applied and the risks were diligently
monitored and mitigated. These important signals of potential problems were both overlooked
and absent in any dialogue between the Bank and the Government over the course of
implementation.


2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The implementation of the project was slow and fractional. The total duration of the project was
8 years (instead of 6 years). During the course of implementation, the project focus shifted from
capacity building toward rehabilitation of court infrastructure. The number of construction
projects increased by 8, from 26 to 34. The key project components Judicial Capacity Building
(Component 1) and Access to Justice (Component 2) were not completed.

Component 1 was the most complex and ambitious of all the intended reforms. The centerpiece
of this Component ­ and on which achievement of the project development objectives was
mostly based ­ was the new models for case management and court administration. In 2000 the
development of these models was competitively bid and contracted for a cost of $2.5 million.
The selected contractor, IRIS, commenced its work in 2001.

In large part, the IRIS contract was supposed to assist the Government in developing new
solutions to business processes, organizational principles and managerial decision-making. The
main deliverables were: (i) models for case management and court administration; (ii) a(CFS);
(iii) manuals for both (dealing with internal reorganization for all 64 subordinate courts); and,
(iv) a proposal for improved budgeting and planning capacities and general management. The
legal framework for implementing the reforms was agreed and enacted with the "Court Reforms
Implementation (Supplementary Provisions) Act" in 2004, which allowed trial and testing in the
five pilot courts, in addition to more substantive amendments to the Civil Procedure Code.




                                                8
The implementation was initiated, seemingly with Government commitment and ownership.
What proved to be lacking, however, was ownership and commitment to the Project at the level
of the pilot courts and the technical capacity of the judiciary to manage the reform process. The
Project addressed this issue by including ­ at the Appraisal stage ­ the contracting of an
additional international consultant (RAC) to assist the SC in overseeing the IRIS contract. It is
clear ­ given the later turn of events ­ that this signal of a weak institutional capacity should
have dictated a re-thinking in the design of the component.

From the beginning, the IRIS work and RAC supervision were fraught with difficulties, from
fundamental issues on the direction and scope of the reforms, to disagreements on
implementation. The Government took a less than active role in managing the IRIS-RAC
relationship and was indecisive about the content and sequencing of reforms. Following
enormous problems, the RAC consultants were called in to assess the quality of work and
payment of the IRIS team. This escalated into a full dispute, with IRIS refusing the RAC
arbitration and the Government not authorizing payment to IRIS.

Following protracted delays, the non-payment culminated with senior levels of IRIS and Bank
management becoming involved. In 2007, the dispute was finally resolved. A Bank supported
mediation mission in September 2007 indicated that the RAC evaluation had been seriously
flawed and should not have been used as the basis for assessing IRIS' performance or
determining payments. It is clear from field interviews that the relationships among all involved,
including the Bank, were damaged during the early days of the project, and the reverberations
echo to date throughout both executive and judicial actors in Bangladesh's legal system.

Despite comprehensive diagnostic work and the availability of various business models tailored
to the local conditions, the actual change of court operations and administration occurred only
temporarily in pilot courts. The reforms was restricted to the implementation of rather ad hoc
case backlog reduction programs, limited automated case management with the support of an
Information Technology (IT) expert, and creation of aCFS managed by a Judicial Administrative
Officer (JAO).

Between 2003-5 three of five pilot courts (Khulna, Gazipur, Comilla) increased their clearance
rate and reduced their case backlog. Between 2005-8 their performance returned to the pre-
reform level. The reform gains in the rest of the pilot courts were negligible. The evaluation of
the CFS produced mixed results. Some, including the leadership of the SC, believed that the
reform improved the filing process and by random assignment of cases, reduced corruption.
During field interviews and according to results from the Impact Evaluation Study (IES),
commissioned as part of this Implementation Completion Report (ICR), the ICR team learned
contrasting views. Lawyers, for instance, insisted that the new CFS was confusing and increased
corruption by adding another person "to be bribed". In Dhaka Court, the CFS did not work
because of the large volume of cases. The IES also suggests that the success of the reform, if
any, can be directly linked to the strength of the court leadership ­ to individual District Judges.
It also points out that the quality of leadership depends on the understanding of the reforms and
its benefits achieved through consultations.




                                                 9
After the departure of the IRIS team in 2005, the reform agenda was left for the court presidents
and registrars of the pilot courts, and the gains of the reforms started to whittle away. The
Government appears to have provided less than adequate political and practical support for the
implementation of the reforms. The work and efforts of the pilot courts to implement any
reforms were exacerbated by the MOL reassigning judges in and out of the pilot courts,
interrupting work to develop and test the reform models, thereby virtually ensuring that there
was no consistent counterpart during the entire project period in any district. In the beginning of
2009, the day after the project ended, the courts officially returned to the model of court
administration and case management which had been in place before the project started.

Under the Case Management Information System (CMIS), a LAN was set up and computers
were supplied in the SC and in pilot courts. In some courts (Bagerhat, Madaripur, Moulvibazar,
and Mymensingh), cables were installed but the networks were not activated. One full-time IT
expert was appointed in each of the five pilot district courts. IRIS provided basic computer skills
training for more than 150 court staff, and constructed computer rooms. From interviews with
judges and court staff, it appears that the Government made no provisions for maintenance of the
computers or for ongoing training of the relevant staff, and the use of IT was never
institutionalized.

While there was more stability on the Bank side in terms of task team leaders ­ only two over the
life of the project - the leadership of the project on the Bangladeshi side is likely to have suffered
from at least three Registrars, who were designed to be the main counterpart on court
administration for the Project, and five Project Directors (PD). The longest serving PD was in
his position for a little more than two and a half years and effectively steered the project. His
ability undoubtedly stemmed from the fact that he had previously served as the Gazipur District
Judge, one of the Stage I pilot courts supported by the Project, and one of the two courts which
actually showed limited ­ but temporary -- improvements in case management performance.

A marginal amount of activities under the Legal Aid & Awareness Component have been
implemented, albeit with almost no sustainable results. Gender sensitivity training appears to be
too small in scope to impact court practice, and reportedly the ADR (ADR) reform failed
because of opaque incentives of lawyers. The activities to strengthen the small causes courts and
legal aid were not implemented despite almost unlimited needs for legal services. The system
established by the Legal Aid Services Act 2000 under the auspices of the project was intended to
create a national legal aid administration for funding legal aid services. However, this scheme
existed mostly on paper for much of the decade and there were ongoing problems in disbursing
even the Government's own modest budgetary legal aid allocation, let alone project funds
earmarked for legal aid.

Construction and / or rehabilitation of the court houses and the JATI is perceived as the most
significant achievement of this project. The ICR team visited the JATI and Dhaka Court and
through the IES, attempted to verify this suggestion. The quality of the works was exceedingly
poor. At the JATI, which was finished and opened for business in April 2009, there was already
significant deterioration of the building. The ICR team also noted lack of basic space
functionality in the JATI. Despite being a six story building, with multiple rooms available to
carry out different training courses, only one training course is run at a time, utilizing one room.

                                                 10
The JATI administration indicates that this is due to lack of qualified teaching staff (e.g.
trainers), and the lack of budgetary funds from the GOB. It should also be said that the building
was originally conceived to be 12 floors. Today, the building is completed to the sixth floor,
with incomplete remnants of further floors visible from the roof top. In short, the building
appears to be unfinished (See photographs below).




The IES confirms the findings of the ICR team. The interviews with users revealed that
constructions financed under this project failed to take into consideration best practice and
international standards. The users were not sufficiently consulted and therefore many of their
legitimate needs and court functions were not taken into account in the buildings' design. For
instance, the general complaint is that court buildings have no space for litigants. In Comilla, the
new court is undersized and offices are too small to accommodate cabinets, and there is no
parking space for cars. A similar problem was reported from Khulna where, in addition to the
aforementioned problems, the spacial organization does not properly accommodate


                                                11
stenographers or the accused. Other complaints included lack of light, absence of elevators,
restrooms and so on. (See also Section 2.4 Safeguards.)

The purpose of the Legal Reform Capacity Building (Component 3) was to strengthen the LC
and the Drafting Wing of the MOL (DW) to carry out legislative work related to the above
reforms and beyond that. By the end of the Project, the LC aimed to have more staff working
according to a medium-term work plan using modern methodologies and automated research
facilities. The DW was intended to gain more institutional autonomy and capacity; its staff
should have improved legislative skills, a drafting manual prepared, and the DW's facilities
(including a library) updated and equipped.

Project documentation suggests that this activity is the highlight of the project (the rating was
"satisfactory" throughout the whole life of the project). The field interviews with the current
staff of the LC contradict such conclusions. The LC staff is not aware of any significant support
(e.g. in the form of new methodologies or a research tool/facility). The DW feedback was much
more positive, highlighting the receipt of books, training, and preparation of its own Legislative
Deskbook of Bangladesh. Indeed, the ICR team believes that the DW became a stronger
institution, partially as a result of this Project. The DW has gained its autonomy in January
2010, more than a year after the closure of the project.

It appears from the project documents that the Bank did not often intervene to facilitate policy
dialogues, guide the implementation and/or resolve the various implementation challenges. For
instance, the contractual dispute between IRIS and RAC was brought to the attention of Bank
management only when the crisis was at its highest peak. Subsequently the Bank mediated the
conflict. Despite the problems occurring with the most critical component of the Project, project
ratings for Component 1 were "Satisfactory" for the bulk of the project lifespan, and were only
downgraded to "Moderately Satisfactory" in June 2008, at which time the dispute had been
resolved.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) indicates that monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would
be based on Annex 1, which includes benchmarks to be established through baseline studies
undertaken within six months of project effectiveness. The Baseline Survey for court
administration and case management component was not completed until October 2003, exactly
2 years after the effectiveness date of the project. The delays in the preparation of the Baseline
Survey were attributed to the disagreement on the survey instrument, and a general feeling by the
judiciary that the consultants had not understood and were not well versed in the Bangladeshi
context.

The Baseline Report used data generated by the inventory of cases in pilot courts and also a
detailed survey of lawyers, judges, court staff, litigants and the general public, and it had some
potential to document reform accomplishments. There were no subsequent updates to the
baseline data and no other follow up reports were prepared for this project.




                                               12
As for the Bank, the Baseline Survey was referred to in early project documentation, at the time
of the Effectiveness of the Project (October 2001), and not again through the remainder of the
archived project reports. Instead of tracking progress against the Baseline Survey, the progress
of the project was monitored through progress reports, supervision reports, and the Mid Term
Review Report. (See also 1.2. Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators).


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Safeguards

There were no safeguards triggered by the Project. However, due to the fact that project design
envisioned approximately $20 million being allocated for upgrading of court infrastructure,
which included new construction, Guidelines for the Environmental Management of Court
Building Construction were developed. The Guidelines required that if any major environmental
issues were identified during screening, further public consultation would be held to ensure that
these concerns were adequately addressed in the designs. The Guidelines were to be
incorporated into the Terms of Reference for the Design and Supervision Consultants, and
elements would be included in an environmental manual which would form part of the bidding
documents for construction contracts. As further elaborated below, it does not appear that the
production of these Guidelines in any way informed the design process for the buildings financed
by the Project, e.g, the SC Annex and the JATI.

The IES indicated that no consultations took place prior to the construction, even in cases when
they were demanded by the users ­ e.g. local bar associations. As a result, users of the courts,
while acknowledging the overall improvements of their working conditions, were unanimously
critical about the architectural designs and/or locations of buildings and the disregard to such
important considerations as security and basic access and rudimentary comforts, e.g., adequate
toilets, covered waiting areas for litigants (protection from rain and sun, etc.). They also
criticized the quality of construction and the maintenance of buildings. (See also Section 2.5
Post-Completion Operation/Next Phase).

Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management was generally handled in a satisfactory manner. All financial statements
that were received within the due dates were audited. In all, the Government auditors made 75
observations for the Project. At the writing of the ICR, 48 audit observations were settled and 27
are outstanding. From the Bank's view point, 4 of the observations were identified as material
for the latest financial year, 2007-2008. It has been agreed with the Ministry of Law, Justice and
Parliamentary Affairs that an Action Plan will be made to settle the observations in due course.
IDA-identified observations were related to contract management. Most of the remaining
observations were related to weakness in internal control and maintenance of auditable
documentation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

                                                13
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

As mentioned above, "insufficient funds" were included among the project risks. Indeed, the
lack of Operation and Maintenance (O&M) funds from the Government during project
implementation presented serious challenges, and the situation does not seem to have improved
post-Project.

The impact of this challenge on the Judicial Capacity Component (Component 1) is discussed in
Section 2.2. Implementation. The lack of budgetary support for O&M has had a similarly
negative impact on the construction of the court buildings and theJATI (JATI). This has been
despite the explicit inclusion of the PWD of the Ministry of Housing and Public Works (MHPW)
as the implementing agencies for the infrastructure component.

According to the JATI management - and as verified by the Development Credit Agreement - the
PWD would estimate the amounts needed for repairs and annual maintenance and provide this
information to the MOL. In the case of the JATI building, although these amounts were
prepared and presented, they were not considered by the MOL, which is reportedly a standard
practice. Therefore no funds were received for upkeep and maintenance of the structure.

It appears the Bank did not intervene to remedy this problem, although the Development Credit
Agreement, Article III, Section 3.01(a) called for "the Borrower to declare its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out the Project through the MOL, the SC, JATI, LC and PWD with due diligence and efficiency,
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, legal and judicial practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project."

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The business and investment environment were chosen to be the entry points of legal and judicial
reform. The project development objective, however, was less than explicit about this fact. The
PAD states that the PDO is "to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of the
civil justice delivery system, and increase access to justice, particularly for women and the poor.
The overall results of the project should have provided a solid foundation for protecting against
corruption and improving governance in the country." Higher productivity of courts and legal
aid were the ways to increase access to justice. The project beneficiaries included judges and
court staff, and users ­ businesses, the poor and vulnerable, especially women. In addition,
politicians and the broader public should have benefited from better laws.




                                                 14
These were overly somehow ambiguous and ambitious goals, taking into account the sector's
weak institutional capacity and less than reform-conducive political environment (See also
Section 1.1 Context at Appraisal).

The focus on technical aspects of the reform and disregard for the ongoing judicial fight for
independence was as strategic mistake. Ultimately the project floundered around at the
periphery of the arena, but was not successful in either achieving the development objective of
the project, or contributing to the reform agenda.

The 2006 PRSP and CAS put more emphasis on sustainable and therefore more equitable pro-
poor growth. This would obviously require a slightly different focus ­ the focus on ordinary
users and legal remedies, and the need to address their legal challenges. The broad definition of
the objective and diversity of activities to support them would have allowed alignment of the
project with the new CAS, provided there was more confidence in the project on the both sides
(the Government and the Bank) and willingness to do that and a willingness of the task team to
implement the MTR's recommendations. The legal aid component, which was a centerpiece for
such change, has never been implemented.

The ICR team believes that the reforms ( under the umbrella of access to justice) which take into
consideration the need for more inclusive development, and focus on the peoples' needs and
provision of legal services (rather than financing inputs into the court system) would be very
relevant to the judicial sphere in Bangladesh.

However, the question is whether at this point the Bank has sufficient credibility with the
Government and broader legal community to be trusted to assist with such reform. The CAS
Completion Report (August 2009) is consistent with the above. It indicates that the project met
some of its objectives but did not address broader issues such as the role of the judiciary as an
institution of accountability.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

The ICR rating for achievement of the PDOs is low, in each area. None of the focus areas, (i)
efficiency, (ii) effectiveness and (iii) accountability of the civil justice delivery system were
improved by the project.

A definitive indictment of the project is that the two reforms which were finally (but
temporarily) adopted ­ creation of a CFS and appointing a JAO position ­ both ended with the
closing date of the project. The ICR team did hear praise for the construction of buildings which
would not have otherwise happened without project funds. The ICR team's observation is that
many opportunities to make a difference have been lost due to a lack of supervision and
persistence in terms of quality of work and continuation of activities.




                                               15
The table below captures the changes in performance of the pilot courts during the period of
January 2002-December 2006, the original life cycle of the project, before it was extended for 18
months. The improvements are inconclusive.




Overall, most of changes ­ and perhaps not even as a direct result of the project - occurred for a
very short period of time, less than five years, and were reversed as soon as the project closed.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

The Project was an institution building project, so
no calculations of rates of return were undertaken during project preparation.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The overall outcome rating of the project is rated Unsatisfactory due to the lack of sustainable
progress made towards the achievement of the PDOs (improving the efficiency, effectiveness
and accountability of the civil justice delivery system, and increasing access to justice
particularly for women and the poor.)

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

                                                16
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

None.

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project objective was to increase access to justice for the poor or other vulnerable litigants;
and to make the judiciary more sensitive to the needs of the underprivileged, especially women,
children and the poor. As a result of the project the gender gap in the judiciary should have been
reduced and judges and their staff should have received training in gender issues. Grass roots
legal literacy and public information programs should have been supported as a means of
informing the underprivileged of case management and ADR mechanisms. The project has
contributed to achieving good results in increasing the number of women­judges on the judicial
bench. As for the rest, virtually no results have been recorded by the ICR team.

The Task Team included a gender specialist early on in project preparation to enhance the
desired outreach to women. There was a significant participatory process carried out to put
service providers and users together. Discussions were organized in major towns of Bangladesh
to foster communication and dialogue. The Chief Justice was personally involved in this effort,
and indicated that he supported a target of at least 30 percent of judicial appointments should be
women. As of the writing of this ICR, more than 30 percent of women judges are in the High
Court, and system-wide, the figure increases to 45 percent.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The impact of the project on the justice system in Bangladesh capacity and institutional
development are limited to the construction of judicial training and court facilities and a stronger
DW. The institutional reforms with the intended potential of nationwide improvements have
never been rolled out apart from the Stage I pilot courts, and as discussed above, even the
minimal adoptions of the CFS and JAO were temporary. Eventually they were abolished and the
old ­ pre-project ­ procedures and operations reinstated effective January 1, 2009, one day after
the closing date of the project. Legal aid, ADR, and small cause courts have not been
implemented. As mentioned before, the project did lead to the changes of the Civil Procedural
Code with some positive impact on dispute resolution.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

See Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

                                                17
Rating: High

The Government has not embarked on any further reform agenda in the judicial sphere,
following the completion of the project. There have been minimal achievements as a result of
the project. Therefore, the risks to maintaining the marginal outcomes that did occur are high.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project benefited from a QER by the Bank's QAG in March 1999, which commended the
Government's preparation (together with Bank input) of the Strategy Note, which set forth a
program of legal and judicial reforms together with measures recommended for building
capacity. The QER Panel did recommend, and this recommendation was incorporated into the
project design, the need to phase, prioritize and sequence ­ through piloting ­ project activities.
This resulted in the concept of the Stage I pilots ­ five courts, and the subsequent roll-out ­
based on the anticipated success of the Stage I courts ­ the Stage II ­ sixteen district courts.

The Task Team adhered to the suggestions of the QER ­ however, the scope of the project was
still overly ambitious, especially given that the project was the first intervention in the justice
sector, with a Borrower new to the policies and procedures of the Bank, and was to be
implemented in a less than optimal governance environment. It also appears in retrospect, that
the incorporation of the QER suggestions had little real impact on actual project implementation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

The quality of supervision was less than optimal for the following reasons:

Absence of an adequate policy dialogue with judicial authorities and the Government
(Ministry of Law).

Project documentation does not reflect any substantive discussion on project issues, apart from
the normal meetings held during supervision. The project appears to have been implemented in
isolation, without due regard to the political economy of Bangladesh, complicated as it was at the
time. Rather, as could be expected given the acrimonious relationship which developed early on
in the project between the SC and the IRIS consultants, much of the Task Team's efforts over the
life of the project were focused on resolving this dispute and moving the Terms of Reference for
the contract forward.



                                                18
Task Team Qualification

Lack of an experienced lawyer with expertise in judicial reform. As mentioned in other parts
of this ICR, the Task Team for the project was deficient in terms of the expertise needed for the
successful implementation of the project. This was in part due to the sector mapping ­ Private
Sector Development (PSD) ­ for the project, which did not necessarily ensure that a lawyer ­
with technical expertise and comparative knowledge and experience in legal and judicial reforms
­ would steer the project. It should be said that although the private sector was the entry point
for the project, the project content focused on building legal institutions. There was an effort by
Bank management to turn the project over to the Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
(PREM) portfolio in 2005, but this was never effectuated. The day-to-day supervision of the
project appears to have been relegated to a consultant who had no prior experience on judicial
reform projects in other developing country contexts.

Lack of appropriate supervision for civil works construction/ rehabilitation. Civil works for
judicial infrastructure were estimated at Appraisal to account for $12.5 million out of the $30.6
million project. Due to difficulties in procuring consultant services, the civil works component
ultimately ended up spending $15.4 million, approximately 58 percent of the total credit amount.
The additional amounts were based on funds not spent under the consultant services component,
decided following the MTR. Despite this increased allocation, the supervision by the Task Team
was not as rigorous as it should have been.

Insufficient Supervision:

Frequency of Missions. The Dhaka Country Office supervised the project. Formal supervision
of the project - with a complete team complement - occurred less than once a year. Over the
seven years of project implementation, only five supervision missions were fielded. Despite the
efforts of the co-financiers seeking a joint supervision mission with the Bank team, this was
never agreed to or undertaken. This lack of oversight and active management likely contributed
to the failure of the project.

Inaccurate project evaluation:

The ICR team noted a disconnect between the project ratings and the reality on the ground,
specifically for Component 1. Based on the (i) field interviews, (ii) the team's own impartial
assessment, (iii) review of project documentation, and (iv) the IES, the storyline which was
included in project documentation and ultimately approved by Bank management, was different
than the picture which emerged based on the above reviews. Interviews with Government
representatives were quite comprehensive, and the ICR team met with the judges of at least two
of the pilot courts, and learned firsthand the limited extent of the proposed reforms supported by
the IRIS contract. These interviews were confirmed by the findings of the IES.6


6
  For instance, restructuring of Component 1 was cited in project documentation, due to the adversarial situation
between the Bar and the Bench and the MTR. No concrete actions, however, were initiated following the completion
of the MTR. Project documentation (ISR #9) indicates that at the time of the MTR, case management and court
administration reforms in four out of the five Stage I District Courts (Gazipur, Khulna, Comilla and Rangpur) were

                                                       19
Financing and Disbursement: At inception, the total project cost was estimated at US $43.6
million of which US $30.5 million was to be disbursed as IDA credit. Of the US$30.5 million
(SDR 23.60 million) IDA Credit, 72 percent was disbursed and 28 percent was cancelled at
closing. DANIDA and CIDA were to provide US$2.37 million and US$2.0 million equivalent of
co-financing. GoB was estimated to provide US $8.66 million equivalent of co-financing. Table
1 compares the actual project costs incurred by financing sources to the estimates from the PAD
from March 2001.

                          Table 1: Statement of Project Costs by Category
                    Project Cost by Financing PAD Estimate 1           Actual 2, 3
                    Sources
                                                  US        % of      US         % of
                                                  $M      Total 4     $M     Total 4
              1     Government                   8.66       20%      5.26        15%
              2     IDA                         30.59       70%      26.3        77%
              3     CIDA                         2.00         5%     1.49          4%
              4     DANIDA                       2.37         5%      0.9          3%

                    Total                              43.62        100%      33.95         100%
1
  Source: Annex 5 of PAD
2
  Actual for Government, CIDA and DANIDA derived by converting cumulative financing in BDT from Summary of
Sources & Uses of Funds of the Oct-Dec '08 Project Monitoring Report to USD at December 31, 2009.
3
  December 31, 2008 conversion rate of 1 BDT = 0.0146 USD applied
4
  Total does not add to 100% due to rounding.

At MTR in September 2005, it was identified that disbursement was below projected levels due
to slow procurement and corresponding delays in payment. The cancellation at closing resulted
from the unspent credit amount mostly allocated for activities under "services and training"
component of the project. After the MTR, additional civil works were undertaken beyond the
initial planned activities using savings under the project, raising the total expenditure for "civil
works" component and significantly increasing its share of total costs. Table 2 compares the
actual project expenditure by category from IDA financing sources to the estimates from the
PAD from March 2001.


                            Table 2: Statement of Project Costs by Category

Project Cost by Category            All Financing Sources                    IDA Financing
                                        PAD Estimate 1              PAD Estimate 2       Actual
                                       US $M % of Total               US      % of     US       % of
                                                                4
                                                                      $M Total 4      $M3     Total 4


being successfully implemented and that the process had also started in Dhaka District Court. Additionally the ISR
claims that implementation of these reforms had also started in some other stage II Districts.


                                                       20
1   Goods                                4.85              11%      4.07      13%     3.36   13%
2   Works                               19.85              46%     13.84      45%    15.63   59%
3   Services and Training               15.08              35%     10.51      34%     6.75   26%
4   NLAO Costs                           1.34               3%      1.21       4%        0    0%
5   Unallocated                           2.5               6%      0.96       3%     0.56    2%

    Total                               43.62           100%       30.59      100%    26.3   100%
1
  Source: Annex 3 of PAD
2
  Source: Table A of Annex 6 of PAD
3
  Derived by converting SDR at Sep 16, 2009 exchange rate of 1 SDR = 1.5817
4
  Total does not add to 100% due to rounding.



(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

Bank performance at the task team level and Management supervision level were both
unsatisfactory. The task team could have taken advantage of multiple opportunities throughout
the implementation of the project to: (i) create an open, collaborative dialogue with Government
counterparts, particularly when the IRIS contractual dispute began ­ and lingered; (ii) use the
Masdar Hossain case separating the judiciary from the executive as a tipping point for fostering
reforms, and encouraging high- level country dialogue; (iii) be more diligent in ensuring that the
more technical reforms implemented under the project were rolled out and/or implemented
effectively; (iv) be more persistent in establishing a functional M&E system; and (v)
participated in a more open and collegiate working relationship with the co-financiers, and other
donors.

As mentioned above, the internal reporting on project implementation and assessment was
inflated and inaccurate; the Task Team used indicators in the ISRs which were inconsistent with
the project M&E system design and were difficult to monitor and/or show progress against, and
was less than frank regarding the challenges on the ground. In addition, timely and adequate
reaction to project failures was minimal. Had the team been more engaged and taken a more
proactive approach, it would have restructured the project at the time of the MTR.

Bank management shares blame for not verifying results on the ground ­ this could have been
achieved through participation of any of the 3 sector managers on supervision missions,
preferably the MTR. Bank management left unnoticed that the project documentation were not
providing the depth and breadth of information to accurately assess purported project results. In
addition, Bank management review was less than rigorous, particularly in regard to the M & E
section of the project documentation. Bank management was not identifying the lack of tracking
on the Baseline Survey, nor the shuffling in the results indicators framework, tracking one
indicator for a period of time, including new indicators and the overall lack of consistency in
monitoring.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance Rating: Unsatisfactory

                                                      21
Although there was little discord between the MoL and the SC when the project was designed,
the relationship deteriorated over the years of implementation. Today, there remains deep
resentment at the district court level on the role of the MoL in the project.

To oversee the Case Management and Court Administration component, the SC Implementation
Committee (SCIC) was established by the Chief Justice and comprised of three SC judges and
the Registrar. The PAD notes that the SCIC would be expanded if required during
implementation, but this never occurred, despite the problems which became clear during
implementation. Such reconstitution or an entirely new mechanism could have been used to
improve cooperation. Regardless of this supervisory mandate, the SCIC judges were not full-
time overseers of the component and were busy with their own workloads, thereby not allowing
them to dedicate the time and effort needed to fruitfully guide the work of the consultants.
Indeed the Registrar was designated as the focal point for the IRIS consultants, but also had little
time for the project interventions. There were multiple Registrars and three different Chief
Justices during the project period. No requirements were placed on the Registrar, who reports to
the Chief Justice, to engage with IRIS and to actually implement reforms. To exacerbate the
situation, there was a shortage of judges at the district level during the period of 2001-2008, and
reportedly no new judges could be recruited. This created an environment in which it was
difficult to pilot reforms, and even to expand the SCIC, or replace it with other more reform-
minded judges if the first group were too busy to actively contribute to the monitoring of the
component.

The lack of O & M funds to properly implement reforms in and sustain their benefits is another
reason for the above rating.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies' Performance Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

There were two implementing agencies for the project: the Ministry of Law, Justice and
Parliamentary Affairs [w1]was responsible for goods and services and the PWD was responsible
for the implementation of civil works contracts. During seven years of implementation,
inclusive of the 18 months in the extension in the closing date, the MOL did not develop
adequate procurement management capacity. The overall procurement performance during the
project period was moderately satisfactory. There was a significant initial delay in procurement
processing, especially in the consultancy services area. Though the PWD has completed most of
the PWD contracts within the original project closing date, the agency had considerable
weaknesses in contract management.

According to the PAD, the planning of procurement was agreed as per the following table ­ this
demonstrates that during project design, significant emphasis was given to capacity and
institutional development through the category for consultant services and training.

       Procurement Method            Estimated contract value       % of total procurement
               Goods                      US$ 4,850,000                      12%
      Consultant Services & Trg           US$15,080,000                      38%
            Civil Works                   US$19,850,000                      50%

                                                22
                Total                     US$39,780,000

Immediately after Effectiveness (October 23, 2001), the first approved Procurement Plan (PP)
had already been radically adjusted, even though there had only been 16 months between
Appraisal and Effectiveness. The categories were changed as follows:

      Procurement Method           Number of        Estimated contract       % of total
                                   contracts              value             procurement
             Goods                    38              US$3,619,100              11%
      Consultant Svcs & Trg           19              US$ 7,673,000             24%
          Civil works                 23              US$20,950,440             65%
              Total                   60              US$32,242,540

According to the Procurement Plan which was approved just prior to the extended closing of the
project, the distribution of the goods, works and consultant services categories were as indicated
in the table below. The PP indicates that some of the important procurement packages were not
executed ­ especially in the consultant services category. To make up for this "under run", both
implementing agencies included a large number of small packages in the updated procurement
plans and implemented them accordingly.

  Procurement Method           Number of        Number of      Total contract      % of total
                                Contracts       contracts          value          procurement
                               planned for     not executed
                              Procurement
         Goods                     179              10         US$ 3,660,610           11%
 Consultant Svcs. & Trg.            90              24         US$ 5,905,412           18%
      Civil works                  102               2         US$22,923,571           71%
         Total                     371              36         US$32,490,594


(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance Rating: Unsatisfactory

Most of intended benefits of the project have not occurred or been sustained. The Government
demonstrated weak capacity throughout the life of the project ­ as evidenced by the need to
include project-financed technical assistance for the supervision of the case management contract
(IRIS) ­ and subsequent implementation. There was never a concerted, coordinated effort to
implement the objectives of the project or to provide leadership for the reforms. There were few
incentives for judges to carry out the reforms and they were not required to participate. The
SCIC was empowered to work with the IRIS contractors, but not to clear up problems at the local
level. District judges also resisted formation of local working groups for implementation of the
CMCA. Commitment of the Government to the reforms disappeared after the conflict with IRIS.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)



                                               23
There are several important lessons which arise from the design and subsequent supervision
phase of this project.

Government's commitment and ownership

The project was approved at the brink of the election which led to the change of the Government.
Two more governments came to power during the life of the project. While each of these
changes had major impact on the project, the change in 2001 was the most critical. The reforms
that the project represented lost some of its protagonists and leaders and the ownership of and
commitment to the reforms was diluted. The implementation of the project key reforms (court
administration & case management reforms) revealed that the success of the reforms requires the
strong commitment and ownership of the capable leaders on both levels ­ the central level as
well as the medium and lower level. It also proves that the leadership, commitment and
ownership are essential for the project from its beginning to the end.

Relevance of judicial independence

It should have been apparent at the conception of the project that constitutional restrains on
undue influence of the executive power over judiciary were not working in practice. Arbitrary
judicial appointments and reassignments are just one example of the vulnerabilities of the
Bangladeshi judiciary. The project provides clear evidence how insufficient autonomy, if not
addressed ­ e.g. through the design or policy dialogue -- could endanger the reforms. This
project concentrated on the courts' business operations believing that such effort would
eventually spur the structural changes. Such approach is not new and there are examples of
countries (e.g. Slovakia, Poland, and Croatia) which were able to use the reforms of the court
operations as a stepping stone to significant structural reforms. The legal institutions of these
countries, however, seem to be stronger and far more independent than their parallels in
Bangladesh. The lesson we can take from the project is that judicial independence drives
judicial philosophy, structure, and decision and has to be taken into the consideration in each
project reforming judiciary.

Implementation arrangements

A next important lesson relates to the implementation arrangement, more specifically to the
outsourcing institutional capacity to oversee the project and reforms it represents. At Appraisal,
the Government indicated that it lacked the institutional capacity and technical expertise to
properly and effectively supervise the IRIS contract. Although this should have been a red flag,
the whole premise of Component 1 was based on the SC managing the intervention. It was
conceded by the Task Team that this was a critical design flaw. Therefore, an allocation was
included in the project costs for a firm to provide such capacity. Reform Advisory Consultants
(RAC) was contracted at the same time as the IRIS team. The relationship amongst the
international consultants deteriorated rapidly after contracting, the Government playing a very
minor role and exerting no managerial supervision over the contractors. Although the Bank
should have provided better oversight, and managed the IRIS/RAC relationship, it is clear that
international consultant are no substitute for local institutional capacity.



                                               24
Monitoring and Evaluation

M&E needs to be consistent, rigorous and timely. The inherent difficulties in monitoring these
types of projects which are largely institutional strengthening ­ and which take multiple years to
produce results ­ reinforces the absolute need for constant analytical follow up on project results.
Delays in getting the Baseline Survey initiated should have prompted the team to develop
alternative suitable indicators for tracking. The subsequent lack of attention paid to the results of
the survey, and the less then rigorous periodic assessment of the relevance, performance,
efficiency, and impact of the project is one of the key reasons that problematic issues were not
dealt with in an appropriate and timely manner.
Restructuring

The most important lesson learned out of this project ­ and what might have rescued the project
from the "Unsatisfactory" rating - is that the fact that it should have been restructured at least at
the time of the MTR. It was clear at the point of the MTR that the project objectives would not
be achieved since the envisaged roll-out of the case management model as well as the
implementation of other activities would not occur and/or be completed. The recommendation
of the MTR to restructure the project, however, was restricted only to the legal aid activities and
this proposal was not pursued. (See also Section 5.1 b Bank Performance.)

Appropriate sector alignment

The project originated in the private sector department portfolio and stayed part of the PSD
portfolio for the life of the project. In hindsight, the project should have been formally
transferred to the PREM portfolio, as therein lay its focus. By doing so, it might have been able
to benefit from improved team supervision, with justice sector reform and broader governance
and institutional expertise, and increased Management attention and supervision.




Importance of constant multi-tiered policy dialogue

The project was being implemented during a tumultuous legal time in Bangladesh, immediately
following the Masdar Hossain case. As indicated above, in addition to the focus on achievement
of the PDOs, the project never dealt with how it could help in furthering separation and judicial
independence; it did not capitalize on this critical opening, and redesign the project if necessary,
in the face of resistance.

Need for parallel demand for justice reform

It is clear from implementation of this project that demand for justice reform cannot come from
the Borrower alone. Civil society, the Bar Association, think tanks and the like must be engaged
as well, pushing for the reform and being the voice of citizens. As conceived, the project was
not designed to harness the drivers of civil society, which ­ had they been ­ through a possible



                                                 25
Public Information / Education campaign, could have proved effective in pushing the tide of
reforms further along.

Global justice sector lessons

The Bank has had varied experience with its projects in the justice sector. Of its 19 closed
projects, 14 (or 73 percent) have been rated Moderately Satisfactory (MS) for Outcome, and 100
percent have been rated MS for achievement of the Project Development Objective. The South
Asian justice sector portfolio comprises one project for which the Outcome rating was
Moderately Unsatisfactory and achievement of PDO was Moderately Satisfactory. The project
was implemented in a similarly difficult political climate, and struggled with implementation
challenges along the lines of Bangladesh. The results were mixed, as evidenced by the above
mentioned ratings.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Cofinanciers

Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) ­ Legal Aid Component

CIDA co-financed the Legal Aid Component with an amount of US$5 million and started
implementation of the Legal Aid during the third year of the project. It struggled with the
Government to achieve the focus areas of its TORs: (i) juvenile justice; and (ii) legal aid.
Despite hiring a legal aid coordinator in Gazipur and Jessore court, the majority of its assistance
resulted in the purchase of computers and organization of study tours. Mid-stream, the
Government requested a modification to the project after witnessing the Canadian Duty Counsel
System during a study tour. This change resulted in giving less assistance to the National Legal
Aid Office and putting more money into the Duty Counsel System. The Duty Counsel in Dhaka
was created the last year of the project, and is still running, staffed with CIDA-funded lawyers
hired under the project.

A benefit of the component work was the improved relations between Government actors
(judges in the courts) and civil society (lawyers, prosecutors), and that a structure was created
which provided more scrutiny in terms of how cases were dealt with. As a result, cases were
better managed and lawyers were more satisfied.

The major downfall in the lack of success of this component appears to be an unresponsive
Government who did not succeed in establishing the NLAO. This issue could possibly have
been facilitated by the Bank team during Supervision and raised with the Ministry of Law, but it
appears there was virtually no communication or dialogue between the Bank team and the CIDA
team.

Another difficulty in effectuating any change lay in the fact that CIDA was never in a position to
really establish good relationships with their Government counterparts, being a funder on the one



                                                26
hand and implementer on the other. This conflictual relationship is inherent in any donor
lending, and must be properly managed to minimize risks.

DANIDA

DANIDA's co-financing role was to build capacity within the JATI, which basically comprised
providing a full-time expatriate adviser to the Director-General of JATI as well as purchasing
large amounts of furniture and information technology equipment. Another key effort was to
review the curriculum of the JATI with a view to modernizing it, and proposing improvements in
the business processes of JATI. Unfortunately not many of these recommendations were ever
taken up by the JATI administration, which did not have the staffing, resources, or wield the
level of autonomy needed to promote the desirable changes. As a result, modifications to the
curriculum were never carried out. Systemic issues of the JATI go beyond DANIDA's co-
financing however, and point to (i) lack of budget; (ii) lack of manpower and (iii) lack of
strategic leadership and support by the Government.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

As was raised during CAS consultations in 2005 and then again in 2009, and through BDI's
research, legal professional organizations were initially consulted about the project during
project preparation but were never subsequently updated about the project's progress nor were
their views sought on how the project, even within its limited lens, could be made to work better.
The initial outreach raised expectations that were not met, and the Bar perceives the project as
having been "hijacked" by Government. Ironically, the Bar perceives the Bank as being
secretive and conspiratorial with the Government ­ at a time when the judiciary was being
systematically captured by the ruling party, the Bank was seen as buttressing the powers,
influence and legitimacy of actors and institutions that were undermining the rule of law. There
is a feeling that little effort was made to win over broader civil society support and to explain the
project's objectives, and that far too much emphasis was placed on infrastructure at the cost of
real reform or improvements in access to justice.




                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


                                                 27
(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                                     Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                         Components                  Estimate          Estimate (USD
                                                   (USD millions)         millions)
          JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING                      0.00              25.44
          IMPROVING ACCESS TO JUSTICE                     0.00                3.09
          LEGAL REFORM CAPACITY
                                                            0.00              0.00
          BUILDING
          PREPARATION OF OTHER
                                                            0.00              0.78
          REFORMS
          PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND
                                                            0.00              1.29
          RELATED SERVICES

                  Total Baseline Cost          0.00                 30.60
Physical Contingencies
                                               0.00                  0.00
Price Contingencies
                                               0.00                  0.00
                   Total Project Costs         0.00                 30.60
Front-end fee PPF                              0.00                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                             0.00                  0.00
            Total Financing Required           0.00                 30.60




(b) Financing


                                                                                        Actual/Latest
                                                                         Appraisal
                                                          Type of                         Estimate
                      Source of Funds                                    Estimate
                                                        Cofinancing                        (USD
                                                                       (USD millions)
                                                                                          millions)
 Borrower                                                                   8.65            0.00
 CANADA: Canadian International Development Agency
                                                                            2.00            0.00
(CIDA)
 DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev. Assistance (DANIDA)                             2.37            0.00
 International Development Association (IDA)                                30.60           0.00




                                              28
29
                                                 Annex 2. Outputs by Credit Category


                               PROCUREMENT PLANNING AND MONOTORING FORMAT (Revision ­ 9)
                                            FOR GOODS DURING 2001 ­ 2008

Serial   Contract                    Name of Contract                       Actual        Procedure/   Date of    Supplier's/          Checked
 No.     Package                    (Brief Description)                    Contract        Method      Contract   Contractor's Name    by us
         Number                                                          Price in BDT                  Signing


  1       G­6       Server, Computer and accessories for Dhaka,
                                                                                                       June 28
                    Gazipur, Comilla, Rangpur, & Khulna                       70,04,700     NCB                   Delta Systems Ltd.
                                                                                                        2007
  2      G ­ 6A     Printer for Gazipur, Comilla, Rangpur, and Khulna.                                                 Smart
                                                                                                        07.10.
                                                                              6,60,962      NCB                   Technologies (BD)
                                                                                                        2007
                                                                                                                        Ltd.
  3       G­7       Computer and accessories for 8 districts- Moulvi
                                                                                                                       Smart
                    Bazar, Braman Bharia, Feni, Laxmipur, Cox's               40,98,640                 05.11.
                                                                                            NCB                   Technologies (BD)
                    Bazar, Noakhali, Munshiganj, & Pabna                                                2007
                                                                                                                        Ltd.
  4       G­8       Computer and accessories for Chittagong, Rajshahi,
                                                                                                       May 30
                    Barisal, Sylhet, and Mymenshing                                                                 Flora Limited
                                                                              38,86,500     NCB         2007
  5       G­9       Computer and accessories for Bagerhat,                                              20.11.
                                                                              39,64,000                                Smart
                    Gopalganj, Bhola, Pirojpur, Jhalokathi, Madaripur,                                  2007
                                                                                                                  Technologies (BD)    Yes
                    Thakurgaon, & Bogra                                                     NCB
                                                                                                                        Ltd.
  6      *G ­ 13    Toner for printer & photocopier for the JAO's                                      Sep 23       Kosturi Trade
                    office, Comilla                                           1,37,350       NS         2007        International
  7      G- 93A     EJLASH, accused dock and witness dock for                                          July 08
                    Dhaka court                                               10,62,000     NCB                      Ornate Plus
                                                                                                        2007




                                                                         31
Serial   Contract                     Name of Contract                       Actual        Procedure/    Date of    Supplier's/          Checked
 No.     Package                     (Brief Description)                    Contract        Method       Contract   Contractor's Name    by us
         Number                                                           Price in BDT                   Signing
  8       G-93B     Furniture of District Judge Court of Dhaka                                                      Paragon Enterprise
                                                                               2,518,546     NCB
                                                                                                                          Ltd.
  9       G-95A     Furniture for District Judge Court of Laxmipur                                       June 19,   Paragon Enterprise
                                                                               2,610,604     NCB
                                                                                                           2007           Ltd.
 10      *G - 105   Printing & stationery for project office & entities           Tk          NS          Nov 21      Multipurpose
                                                                               1,17,690                    2007       Technology

 11      *G - 109   Repairing & servicing of PA system of the             Tk                  NS          Apr 18      Tel Asia Ltd.
                    Supreme Court                                         1,69,992                         2006

 12      G - 110    Computer chair & computer table for 5 pilot           Tk.                 NS        Apr 30        Otobi Limited
                    District Courts                                       1,57,430                         2006

 13      *G -112    Repairing & servicing of AC of the Supreme Court       Tk. 4,87,200       NS          May 09        Shefalika
                                                                                                           2006     Engineering Works

 14       G -115    Photocopier for Supreme Court and 25 project                                         April 18   Business Machines
                    District Judge Courts (excluding ­ Pirozpur)                             NCB
                                                                               31,67,216                  2007          Company
 15       G -121    Furniture for Conference rooms of 26 Project
                    District Judge Courts                                      4,824,600     NCB            -               -

 16       G -122    Furniture for IT Liaison Section, Court Services
                                                                                                          Sep 24
                    Section and Budget & Planning Section of Supreme                         NCB                      Neo Collection       Yes
                                                                               5,02,400                    2007
                    Court
 17      G ­ 124    Books and journal for the PMU, Supreme Court
                    Library and 25 District Court libraries                    6,890,025     NCB            -               -

 18      G ­ 126    Printing & Stationery for project office                                             Nov 19,
                                                                               1,44,512       NS                    Kakhrul Enterprise
                                                                                                          2007
 19      *G ­ 131   Repairing Air conditioner for Supreme Court                                          May 21         Shefalika
                                                                                              NS
                                                                                42,250                    2007      Engineering Works



                                                                          32
Serial   Contract                     Name of Contract                       Actual       Procedure/   Date of    Supplier's/          Checked
 No.     Package                     (Brief Description)                    Contract       Method      Contract   Contractor's Name    by us
         Number                                                           Price in BDT                 Signing
 20      *G ­ 136   Partition, furniture etc for JAO, Comilla Court                                    Feb 04      Ekram Ahammed
                                                                                             NS
                                                                               1,98,600                 2007        Bhuiyan & Co.
 21      *G ­ 137   Stationery for project office                                                      May 22       Ananta Paper &
                                                                                             NS
                                                                               46,405                   2007          Stationery
 22      *G ­ 138   Air conditioner repairing for Supreme Court                                        May 27         Shefalika
                                                                                             NS
                                                                               54,975                   2007      Engineering Works
 23      *G ­ 139   Stationery for 5 JAOs' offices & project office                                    July 12
                                                                               1,72,850      NS                    PC Met Network
                                                                                                        2007
 24      *G ­ 140   Toner for printer                                                                  July 23     Multi Purpose
                                                                               1,73,700      NS
                                                                                                        2007        Technology
 25      *G ­ 141   Stationery for Supreme Court                                                       Aug 09      Kosturi Trade
                                                                               1,73,821      NS
                                                                                                        2007        International
 26      *G ­ 142   Toner for Gazipur & Khulna                                                         Aug 20     Ananta Paper and
                                                                                             NS
                                                                               1,77,389                 2007         Stationery
 27      *G ­ 143   Air conditioner repairing for Supreme Court                                        Aug 22
                                                                                             NS                   Saad International
                                                                               57,880                   2007
 28      *G ­ 145   Repairing of printer for Death Reference Section of                                                Afrin
                                                                                                       Oct 30
                    S.C.                                                       29,600        NS                     Technology&
                                                                                                       2007
                                                                                                                   Communication
 29       G-155     Printing and stationery for project office                                         June 03,
                                                                               139,778       NS                     SS Enterprise
                                                                                                         2008
 30       G-157     Repairing of furniture and sofa for project office         355,500       NS




                                                                          33
                                   FOR SERVICES & TRAINING                DURING 2001 ­ 2008 (Revision ­ 9)

Serial   Contract         Name of Contract              Actual Contract         Procedure/        Date of       Consultant's Name         Checked
 No.     Package         (Brief Description)              Price Value            Method          Contract                                  by us
         Number                                          (with contract                          Signing
                                                       currency) in BDT
  1       S - 2A    Financial Specialist                     Tk 100             Individual        Sep 27         Mr. Moinul Islam
                                                              Lakh               selection         2001
                                                                                  method

  2       S ­ 2B    Procurement Specialist                   Tk 80              Individual        Sep 27    Mr. Md. Shamsul Arefin Arif
                                                             Lakh                selection         2001
                                                                                  method

  3       S ­ 2E    Junior Information                  Initial contract is     Individual        Jan 11,   (1) Md. Sahab Uddin,
                    Technology Expert                   Tk 0.15 lakh per         selection         2003     (2) AFM Reazul Amin,
                     (5 individual consultants)         man month up to           method                    (3) Md. Tanvir Arafat,
                                                       Dec 2006 and then                                    (4) Md. Mahbubur Rahman,
                                                        Tk 0.20 lakh per                                    (5) A.J.M. Touheedul Islam
                                                           month up to
                                                       completion of the
                                                              Project
  4        S-45     Appointment     of       Junior       Tk 1.80 lakh          Individual       Sept 15        Mr. Amir uz Zaman
                    Accounting Specialist                                        Selection        2005
                                                                               method based
                                                                              on qualification
                                                                              and experience
  5       S ­ 49    Short term consultant for civil
                    works for JATIC (6th & 7th                                                   Aug 21
                    floors) and Dhaka District                                  Least cost                    Alam and Associates Ltd.
                                                            2,98,500                              2006
                    Judge Court (8th to 11th floors)




                                                                         34
Serial   Contract         Name of Contract            Actual Contract     Procedure/        Date of   Consultant's Name   Checked
 No.     Package         (Brief Description)            Price Value        Method          Contract                        by us
         Number                                        (with contract                      Signing
                                                     currency) in BDT
  6       S ­ 54    Infrastructure Planning and                           Individual
                    Development Expert (1                                  Selection
                                                                                           July 25
                    national consultant for 24           600,000         method based                 Md. Hasan Emam
                                                                                            2007
                    months for Supreme Court)                           on qualification
                                                                        and experience
  7        S-56     Court Service Analysis,
                    Monitoring and Training
                    Expert                               600,000           As above           -
                     (1 national consultant for 24
                    months for Supreme Court)
  8       S ­ 57    Junior Network Expert (1
                    national consultant for 24                                             July 24,
                                                         480,000           As above                   Md. Ahdabul Islam
                    months for Supreme Court)                                               2007

  9       S ­ 58    Junior I. T. Hardware Expert
                    (1 national consultant for 24                                          July 24,
                                                         360,000           As above                     Sadik Noman         Yes
                    months for Supreme Court)                                               2007

 10       S - 59    Junior Program Analyst (1
                    national consultant for 24           360,000           As above
                    months for Supreme Court)
 11       S - 60    Junior Data Base
                    Administrator
                                                         360,000           As above
                    (1 national consultant for 24
                    months for Supreme Court)
 11       S - 61    Junior Monitoring Analyst (1
                    national consultant for 24           360,000           As above
                    months for Supreme Court)
 12       S - 62    Junior Training Coordination
                    Expert (1 national consultant
                                                         360,000           As above
                    for 24 months for Supreme
                    Court)



                                                                   35
Serial   Contract         Name of Contract            Actual Contract   Procedure/    Date of    Consultant's Name     Checked
 No.     Package         (Brief Description)            Price Value      Method      Contract                           by us
         Number                                        (with contract                Signing
                                                     currency) in BDT
 13       S ­ 63    Junior Maintenance Expert (1
                    national consultant for 24                                       July 24,
                                                         360,000         As above               Md. Al Emdad Sikder      Yes
                    months for Supreme Court                                          2007

 14       S ­ 64    Liaison Section Coordinator (1
                    national consultant for 24           480,000         As above
                    months for Supreme Court
 15       S ­ 65    Junior Liaison Section
                    Coordinator (1 national                                          July 24,
                                                         360,000         As above               Md. Alimul Morshed       Yes
                    consultant for 24 months for                                      2007
                    Supreme Court)
 14       S ­ 66    Junior Record Examination
                    Expert (1 national consultant                                    Aug 01
                                                         360,000         As above                Ms. Tasvina Sultana
                    for 24 months for Supreme                                         2007
                    Court
 15       S ­ 67    Junior Record Coordination
                    Expert (1 national consultant                                    July 25     Md. Monir Hossain
                                                         360,000         As above
                    for 24 months for Supreme                                         2--7          Mozumder
                    Court
 16       S ­ 68    Junior Stay Coordination
                    Expert                                                           July 24
                                                         360,000         As above                 Monowara Begum         Yes
                    (1 national consultant for 24                                     2007
                    months for Supreme Court
 17       S ­ 69    Court Services Adviser (1
                                                                                     July 24
                    national consultant for 24           600,000         As above                  Hafeejul Alam
                                                                                      2007
                    months for Supreme Court
 18       S ­ 70    Supreme Court Services
                    Expert                                                           July 24
                                                         480,000         As above               Md. Nur Hossain Khan
                    (1 national consultant for 24                                     2007
                    months for Supreme Court




                                                                   36
Serial      Contract           Name of Contract             Actual Contract         Procedure/       Date of          Consultant's Name         Checked
 No.        Package           (Brief Description)             Price Value            Method         Contract                                     by us
            Number                                           (with contract                         Signing
                                                           currency) in BDT
 19          S ­ 71      Subordinate Court Services
                         Expert (1 national consultant                                               July 24
                                                                  480,000            As above                       Md. Abdullah Al Mamun           Yes
                         for 24 months for Supreme                                                    2007
                         Court
 20          S - 72      Junior Rules Expert
                         (1 national consultant for 24            360,000            As above
                         months for Supreme Court
 21          S ­ 73      Junior Statistics Expert (1
                                                                                                     July 24
                         national consultant for 24               360,000            As above                           Md. Hadiul Islam
                                                                                                      2007
                         months for Supreme Court


                                                                  WORKS CONTRACTS

       Contract            Name of Work/Location          Quantity/    Date Of       Estimated Contract             Procedure/      Checked by us
      Package No                                          Number       Contract       Cost( In      Cost ( In         Method
                                                                       Signing          Lakh          Lakh
                                                                                       BDT)           BDT)
          W-29         Provision for construction of collapsible gate , Boundary wall, Sentry Box and Ground floor verandha
                       grill etc as a Security measures of Judges and court premises of 61 district judge court and also sentry
                       box for supreme court.
         W-29/2        Comilla                                 1        20.01.2008      14.00      1,427,685 National Bidding     Yes, previous year
                                                                                                                                  (FY-07-08)
         W-29/4        Khulna                                 1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,146,053     National Bidding
         W-29/5        Bogra                                  1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,367,307     National Bidding
         W-29/6        Feni                                   1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,396,849     National Bidding
         W-29/7        Coax's Bazar                           1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,378,886     National Bidding
         W-29/9        Gazipur                                1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,398,724     National Bidding   Yes, previous year
                                                                                                                                  (FY-07-08)
         W-29/10       Rajshahi                               1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,014,907     National Bidding   Yes, previous year
                                                                                                                                  (FY-07-08)
         W-29/11       Rangpur                                1        20.01.2008     14.00      1,350,561     National Bidding



                                                                            37
 Contract       Name of Work/Location   Quantity/   Date Of      Estimated    Contract       Procedure/        Checked by us
Package No                              Number      Contract      Cost( In    Cost ( In       Method
                                                    Signing        Lakh         Lakh
                                                                   BDT)        BDT)
 W-29/12     Thakurgaon                    1        20.01.2008     14.00     1,240,233    National Bidding
 W-29/13     Bhola                         1        20.01.2008     14.00     1,027,859    National Bidding   Yes
 W-29/14     Barisal                       1        20.01.2008     14.00     950,880      National Bidding
 W-29/15     Bagerhat                      1        20.01.2008     14.00     941,133      National Bidding
 W-29/16     Gopalganj                     1        20.01.2008     14.00     873,029      National Bidding
 W-29/17     Madaripur                     1        20.01.2008     14.00     914,278      National Bidding
 W-29/18     Mymensingh                    1        20.01.2008     14.00     989,870      National Bidding   Yes, previous year
                                                                                                             (FY-07-08)
 W-29/19     Munshiganj                    1        20.01.2008    14.00      1,070,828    National Bidding
 W-29/20     Moulbibazar                   1        20.01.2008    14.00      1,371,529    National Bidding   Yes
 W-29/21     Noakhali                      1        20.01.2008    14.00      1,293,077    National Bidding
 W-29/22     B.Baria                       1        20.01.2008    14.00      1,056,213    National Bidding
 W-29/24     Laxmipur                      1        20.01.2008    14.00      1,388,938    National Bidding
 W-29/25     Perojpur                      1        20.01.2008    24.00       562,557     National Bidding
 W-29/26     Chandpur                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,399,985    National Bidding   Yes
 W-29/27     Kishorganj                    1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,709,627    National Bidding
 W-29/28     Satkhira                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,381,997    National Bidding
 W-29/29     Naogaon                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,897,500    National Bidding   Yes
 W-29/30     Shirajgonj                    1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,448,355    National Bidding
 W-29/31     Netrokona                     1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,522,447    National Bidding
 W-29/36     Joypurhat                     1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,849,627    National Bidding
 W-29/37     Kushtia                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,398,021    National Bidding
 W-29/39     Borguna                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,320,686    National Bidding
 W-29/40     Lalmonirhat                   1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,362,702    National Bidding
 W-29/41     Sherpur                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,367,254    National Bidding
 W-29/42     Jamalpur                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,461,019    National Bidding
 W-29/43     Narshinfdi                    1        20.01.2008    24.00       495,621     National Bidding
 W-29/44     Ponchogor                     1        20.01.2008    24.00       621,922     National Bidding
 W-29/45     Gaibanda                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,753,650    National Bidding



                                                         38
 Contract       Name of Work/Location   Quantity/   Date Of      Estimated    Contract       Procedure/        Checked by us
Package No                              Number      Contract      Cost( In    Cost ( In       Method
                                                    Signing        Lakh        Lakh
                                                                   BDT)        BDT)
 W-29/46     Rajbari                       1        20.01.2008     24.00     2,029,601    National Bidding
 W-29/47     Norail                        1        20.01.2008     24.00      154,065     National Bidding
 W-29/48     Magura                        1        20.01.2008     24.00     1,737,647    National Bidding
 W-29/49     Jhenaidha                     1        20.01.2008     24.00     2,378,118    National Bidding
 W-29/50     Meherpur                      1        20.01.2008     24.00     1,707,345    National Bidding   Yes, previous year
                                                                                                             (FY-07-08)
 W-29/51     Hobigonj                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,028,079    National Bidding   Yes
 W-29/52     Nilfamari                     1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,068,503    National Bidding
 W-29/53     Chuadanga                     1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,769,634    National Bidding
 W-29/54     Kurigram                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,323,996    National Bidding
 W-29/55     Tangail                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,088,490    National Bidding
 W-29/56     Jessore                       1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,201,026    National Bidding
 W-29/57     Faridpur                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,468,761    National Bidding
 W-29/58     Shariatpur                    1        20.01.2008    24.00      1,044,578    National Bidding
 W-29/59     Potuakhali                    1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,134,950    National Bidding
 W-29/60     Dinajpur                      1        20.01.2008    24.00      2,289,898    National Bidding




                                                         39
40
                         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The PAD indicates that the financial returns on Project investment cannot be easily quantified
but that qualitative assessments could be made on economic growth by (i) reducing the cost of
doing business and (ii) improving access to justice for the poor and underserved populations
(especially) women to further social and economic equity. These returns were expected to be
considerable.

There was no data in Project documentation at the end of the Project to confirm these
assumptions.




                                             41
        Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

                                                                             Responsibility/
            Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                               Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Nilufar Ahmad              Senior Gender Specialist                SDV Gender
                                                                       Legal/public sector ­
Sakuntala Akmeemana        Senior Public Sector Specialist       SASGP
                                                                       Mid term review
Muhammad Ali               Consultant                            SARPS
                                                                       Legal ­ Mid-term
Christina Biebesheimer     Chief Counsel                         LEGJR
                                                                       review
Akhtar Hamid               Consultant                            SACPA Legal
M. Aminul Haque            Consultant                            SARPS Legal
Tanvir Hossain             Procurement Specialist                SARPS Procurement
Syed Mynuddin Hossain      Consultant                            SASFP Legal
                                                                       Legal/public sector ­
Khateeb Sarwar Lateef      Consultant                            PRMPS
                                                                       Mid-term review
Azharul Mannan             Consultant                            SASFP
K. M. Maqsoodul Mannan     Consultant                            SASDU
Sheikh Mohammad
                           Information Officer                    ISGOS Info. Tech.
Moniruzzaman
Bridget Rosalind Rosario   Program Assistant                     SACBD Administrative
Kishor Uprety              Sr Counsel                            LEGES Legal
Suraiya Zannath            Sr Financial Management Specia        SARFM Financial Mgmt.

(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY96                                                                        0.34
  FY97                                                                       21.90
  FY98                                                                      159.32
  FY99                                                                      204.60
  FY00                                           55                         137.98
  FY01                                           52                         153.65
  FY02                                            2                           1.99
  FY03                                                                        0.00
  FY04                                                                        0.06
  FY05                                                                        0.00
  FY06                                                                        0.00


                                             42
  FY07                             0.00
  FY08                             0.00
                  Total:   109   679.84
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                             0.00
  FY97                             0.00
  FY98                             0.00
  FY99                             0.00
  FY00                             0.00
  FY01                             0.00
  FY02                      35    87.04
  FY03                      43   127.08
  FY04                      24    72.51
  FY05                      19    77.29
  FY06                      22   123.96
  FY07                      16    38.79
  FY08                      25    55.43
  FY09                      18     0.00
                  Total:   202   582.10




                           43
                                   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Introduction


The BRAC Development Institute (BDI) undertook a qualitative assessment of key stakeholders
and beneficiaries during October and November 2009. Researchers traveled to ten district
courts, including all five pilot courts in which the case management improvements were piloted
and five of the courts where these reforms were to be rolled out in Phase 2 of the project
(Bagerhat, Mymensingh, Munshiganj, Madaripur and Moulvibazar). In each district, researchers
conducted informant interviews with the District Judge and the Administrative Officers and met
with members of the relevant district bar to conduct focus group discussions. In total,
information was gathered from meetings with 15 district judges who were either currently
serving or had served in the aforementioned ten districts, a number of sub-judges, 59 lawyers,
nine administrative officers, three officials each from the Law Commission, the SC Registrar's
office, the MoLJPA's Legislative DWand JATI.

While BDI aimed to interview all district judges who served in the aforementioned districts
during the Project's period, only five were located.7 Furthermore, BDI was unable to obtain the
appropriate "official" authorization from the MOL within the timeframe required to carry out
interviews. Without formal written authorization, BDI faced difficulties in obtaining statistics
about the rate of case clearance, legal aid cases, ADR cases, and the budget.

Findings

A. JUDICIAL CAPACITY BUILDING

Court Management and Court Administration (CMCA) reform through the implementation of
aCFS (CFS) was specifically aimed at reducing delays and improving case clearance rates in the
civil justice system. While the five pilot courts (Dhaka, Gazipur, Comilla, Rangpur and Khulna)
implemented CFS with varying degrees of success, none of the five out of sixteen randomly
selected roll-out courts ((Bagerhat, Mymensingh, Munshiganj, Madaripur and Moulvibazar) ever
had a CFS. Officials in the roll-out courts claimed that while all logistical arrangements were
made for a JAO who would serve as the focal person for CFS, a JAO was never posted to any of
these courts.




7
  Judges are transferred frequently and there is no national directory of where these judges are transferred to or the
posts at which they have served before. The few that BDI located were through leads provided by World Bank
officials.


                                                          44
Khulna, Gazipur and Comilla district courts experienced significant improvements in their case
clearance rates for periods of time, which were mainly attributable to the leadership of particular
officials present during the Project period.

An enabling law promulgated in 2004 gave effect to CFS for a period of four years only. CFS
ended in all pilot courts on 31 December 2008, with the end of the project. Case filing reverted
back to the old system as the CFS was not mandatory thereafter.

Local Area Networks (LAN) set up in the pilot courts proved to be an effective tool for District
Judges to monitor court activities, track status of cases and gain easy access on case information.
Each court received between 15-30 computers in addition to 195 computers supplied to
chambers of judges, officers and other sections of the SC. However, in most courts, the LAN has
been discontinued upon the Project's closure, as have the IT experts funded by it. There was no
information and feedback mechanism between the district and national levels. The Court
Management Information System (CMIS) was never operationalized.

In the roll-out courts of Bagerhat, Madaripur, Moulvibazar and Mymensingh, fiber-optic cables
were installed but the LAN was not activated. In Munshiganj however, the LAN was activated
but only a select few computers were included in the network. The Project was not far-sighted
about maintenance of the expensive printer and photocopy machine cartridges; the machines fell
into disuse upon the absence of funds for maintenance.

While there appears to be overall satisfaction with new and renovated court buildings in 21
Districts, issues of quality and access (including lack of disability access, women's toilets,
covered waiting areas, spatial needs of the officers or the litigants, local realities of climate and
weather patterns) were raised. Interviews and field visits revealed that the court buildings had
neither been designed by those who were familiar with the functional needs of a court building in
Bangladesh, nor was there any consultation with the beneficiaries, i.e. judges, lawyers and
administrative officers, let alone the litigant public. In Comilla, there is now a visible gap
between the wall and the ceiling in the court building. In Gazipur, cracks have begun to show. In
the roll-out court of Bagerhat, cracks have begun to show where a third floor has been built on
top of the second. In Munshiganj cracks have begun to appear in two years; in the old buildings,
no cracks appeared even after ten years.

A six-storied modern training complex called the Judicial Academy Training Institute (JATI)
was constructed with both offices and residential accommodation for course participants and the
provision of training for judges of all ranks, law officers of the government, advocates and court
administrative support staff. Inspection of JATI and Dhaka court buildings indicated poor quality
constructions and no maintenance with crack appearing in many places.

JATI has trained over 4000 individuals to date. When asked to comment on the quality and
relevance of courses, almost all judicial officers said they were satisfied. On the issue of lecturers
and trainers, the JATI Director General opined that despite an enormous facility, JATI has a
shortage of trainers, an absence of permanent teaching capacity and inability to carry out
multiple classes.



                                                 45
B. IMPROVING ACCESS TO JUSTICE, PROMOTING LEGAL LITERACY AND
PUBLIC AWARENESS

Very few court officials received gender sensitivity training. When asked about the existence of
specific gender training initiatives, a judge mentioned that judges sensitive to issues of gender
would not help if lawyers and other actors were not simultaneously trained.

All respondents concurred that no initiative had been taken under the Project to strengthen small
cause courts although steps were supposed to have been taken to strengthen, improve, and
revitalize these courts, which exist as a forum of convenience for the underprivileged to litigate
small claims.

The interviewees failed to establish any link between the Project and strengthening ADR at
district courts. From interviews conducted, it was not clear if ADR received sufficient attention
from the Project or not. Knowledge of ADR mechanisms was viewed as part of regular judicial
activity by judges, and all the District Judges were keen to use them. Unlike judges, the majority
of lawyers were reluctant to utilize ADR mechanisms. According to District Judges and
Administrative Officers, lawyers are hesitant to use ADR because they believe that swifter case
resolution will translate into less income for them.

The National Legal Aid Services Organization (NLASO) and District Legal Aid Committees
(DLAC) were established in order to increase the usage of legal aid for the groups targeted.
Initially, the Project was to provide USD7 million of IDA funds for legal aid in civil cases.
However, this money was never disbursed and this component of the loan was eventually
cancelled. Respondents indicated that the difficulty of applying in earlier years could be a reason
why legal aid disbursement had been modest. In addition to the difficulty of applying, many
officials claimed that citizens were not fully aware of the existence of legal aid funds. According
to lawyers, the process to apply for legal aid became easier after 2005.

Many lawyers indicated that the selection of lawyers who dealt with legal aid cases was a corrupt
process and that more monitoring of the district legal aid committees should be taking place.

C. LEGAL REFORM CAPACITY BUILDING

The Project failed to strengthen the Law Commission. Current members and officials in the Law
Commission indicated that there was no evidence of modern or advanced work methodology
having been developed, nor were their research networks built.
According to the official interviewed at the MoLJPA's Drafting Wing, support to the Wing was
positive overall. During the Project, the DWreceived books for training from both the
government and CIDA. The Wing also published its own "Legislative Deskbook of Bangladesh"
to be used for training purposes.
The Legal DWappears to have acquired quite good capacity compared to other parts of the civil
service. However, the Wing may have developed an inflated sense of importance. One
interviewee described the paternal nature of the relationship between the DWand the Law
Commission and implied that one entity always had its way and that was not the LC.


                                                46
D. PREPARATION OF FUTURE REFORMS/OTHER STUDIES

Of all the judges interviewed, only two went on study tours. Those who went on study tours were
usually higher officials and judges. While much of the Project's success lay in the hands of the
individual district judges, most often the Dhaka-based officials were sent abroad.

One district judge visited Thailand before 2000, accompanied by individuals from PWD and the
MoLJPA. The purpose of the trip, he said, was to visit the judicial training complex in Thailand.
According to him, the JATI complex in Bangladesh was eventually made to look like it. The
other judge visited Indonesia and Australia but did not elaborate on the purpose of the visit.
Some opined that a more efficient use of resources would have translated to sending officials to
countries in the region that have judicial systems similar to that in Bangladesh, rather than
developed countries like Canada.

General Observations

The Project suffered from an absence of ownership. Since the funds were directed to the
executive, existing tensions between the judiciary and the MoLJPA resulted in neither entity
assuming responsibility to implement the Project wholeheartedly. According to respondents
interviewed, no supervision was undertaken by the SC, WB or MOLJPA in all of the districts
that were sampled. In one instance, officers at a District Court claimed that when individuals
from the SC came to supervise, they did not do any work. Instead they stayed at a nearby luxury
hotel and accumulated a large bill. In another instance, a former District Judge claimed that
before retirement, the-then Law Secretary toured the entire country's courts and came into
contact with officials who complained about the quality of the furniture. He then rebuked the
court clerk thinking that it was his oversight that led to the procurement of bad furniture. There
was nobody that served as a focal point for the Project at each court.

There was a lack of ownership at the district level. The DJs who were primarily responsible for
implementing the Project at the micro level had little incentives to pursue reforms. It became
clear that those judges who were heavily involved in the Project design from the start or
benefited by going on study tours were more familiar with project components and as a result
more motivated to implement them.
Relationships between MoLJPA and the judiciary and between practicing lawyers and judiciary
were complicated and it did not take into account. The project failed to take into account that
different participants--judges, lawyers, parties, witnesses--have different interests in the pace of
court proceedings. Manipulating the pace of litigation is usually a deliberate strategy of the
litigants as well as judges. Judges blamed lawyers and their delaying tactics for the lack of
implementation of the CPC amendments. Some judges even admitted to being fearful of lawyers.
In one district, the lawyers boycotted a district judge when he tried to dispose of a case that
missed its hearing date three times. In several other instances, judges were transferred from a
district when lawyers complained about them in the SC officially and or unofficially. One district
judge compared the actions of lawyers to that of a trade union. Litigants are also known to use
delaying tactics, often with encouragement from their lawyers.



                                                47
Some respondents claimed that the implementation of the amendments have proved difficult
because there were skeptics even at the highest ranks of the judicial system. One of the Chief
Justices during the project period publicly proclaimed that the amendments could not be
implemented in a place like Chittagong where there are just too many cases.

The Court Reform Implementation (supplementary rules) Act 2004 were enacted for just the
Project's duration, and no discussion was ever undertaken about whether the new system would
be enacted permanently for all districts with phased implementation. It is not even clear that a
law needed to have been enacted in order for improved court administration and case
management mechanisms.

All stakeholders felt the project ended abruptly without fully utilizing its potential and expect
that it will resume in the future. When asked for their overall opinion of the Project, nearly all
interviewees claimed that they did not feel the Project was ready to be evaluated. They opined
that if the Project had been implemented with a longer term vision, the judiciary may have been
able to reap its benefits.




                                               48
           Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No Workshop was held.




                                 49
          Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The draft ICR was shared with the Borrower. No comments were provided.

The following is excerpted verbatim from the Government of the People's Republic of
Bangladesh Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Division Project Completion Report
(IMED)

G. DESCRIPTIVE REPORT
1. General observations / Remarks of the Project on:

1.1 Background: The judicial and legal system of Bangladesh is rich in tradition. But with the
passage of time due to lack of appropriate reforms in the judiciary system, now it has become
more difficult for the court to ensure justice than ever before. The reasons that may be
mentioned are; outdated procedures and their weak application, degeneration of court staffs
in terms of necessary knowledge of law & morality, inadequate physical infrastructural
facilities, etc. Due to this a huge backlog of cases in courts has occurred. People seeking
justice are spending their valuable time and money with little or no result. They are gradually
losing confidence in the judiciary system due to extraordinary delay in the disposal of cases.
As a result people, taking advantage of the situation, are being encouraged to file false cases
with the intention to harass others. Moreover, there is no strong legal support for Alternative
Dispute Resolution (ADR). Situation like this has been creating a negative impression
regarding our judiciary system to both local and foreign investors which in turn discourage
investment. This is an obstacle to our national development as a whole and needs to be
eliminated as soon as possible.

Realizing the need of necessary judicial reforms, the Government of Bangladesh has
established judicial Administration Training Institute in 1995 through the Judicial
Administration Acts, (Act XV of 1995), and also established the permanent Law Commission
in 1996 through law Commission Act. The aims of establishing Judicial Administration
Training Institute is to develop human resources in judges. This institute has already rendered
training to many judges, attorney's, and court administrative officials. The positive impact of
the trainings and its consequences has already been felt in the court administration system. The
Government has also set up an independent legislative Drafting Wing in the MOL. In the
mean time recruitment rules and a clear policy regarding appointment and promotion of the
wing has been formulated and introduced. This will help lead to qualitative improvement of
laws, rules and sub-rules.

The traditional system of court administration, inadequate infrastructural facilities, old
establishment etc, has contributed more to aggravate the problems. In many districts, two or
three judges share a single room to conduct their judicial works. As a result, expected judicial
services from the judges cannot be delivered. In many court houses the main court room is in a
dilapidated condition. They may collapse at any time as they are very old and consist of
structure outdated by now. The limitation of space also acts as constraints to recruit new
judges.

                                               50
As time progresses, the expectations of the society are also changing. The opening of the
economy and its gradual integration into the global economy have created new demands on
the functioning of the court, system, the process in which it works, the laws through which
it operates, its ability to enforce contracts, both domestic and international, and faster
dispensation of commercial cases including effective dispute resolution. A well functioning
system can only become effective if there is also unhindered access to justice by all
including the poor and women. To achieve all these, there is also a demand for adequate
human resource development, both for judges and for lawyers. Modern technology, mainly
effective use of information technology, will bring dynamism to the system. Precisely, the
project is expected to help develop an efficient and accessible judicial and legal system that
caters to the needs of the times.
Because of the need for deep rooted institutional reforms the implementation of the judicial
reform program will be taken up in phases with some of the critical reforms being piloted
before replication. Brief description of the components is given below.
In order to achieve the stated objectives, the activities under the project have been organized
into five work related components and the PMU (project management unit) as the
organization will provide support and co-ordination services to the concerned agencies
entrusted with executing different components. The components of the project are

      a) Legal Capacity Building
      b) Judicial Capacity Building
      c) Technological, Physical and Human Resource Development
      d) Improving Access to Justice, Promoting Legal Literacy & Public
         Awareness; and
      e) Preparation of Future Reforms.

1.2 Justification/Adequacy: As expressed in the Government Fifth Five- year plan (FY 1997-
2202), Bangladesh fully recognizes the significance of a well- functioning legal and judicial
system to the financial, commercial, and industrial life of the nation-and of the need to
remove the constraints to which that system is currently subject. The plan acknowledges
that the judicial processes are cumbersome and time consuming and the legal framework is
sometimes inadequate. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in this context has decided to
undertake major reforms with a view to making the civil justice system more effective,
efficient, and accessible together with strengthening the country's legal framework for
commercial and public service activity. Under this project different steps to be taken to
improve the efficiency, effectiveness, and accountability of the civil justice delivery system,
and increase access to justice, particularly for women and the poor. The overall results of the
project should provide a solid foundation for protecting against corruption and improving
governance in the country. So it is clear that Project undertaken is justified.-

1.3 Objectives:

The objective of the Project was to increase enough scope for People's access to Justice by
making the existing Judicial system more efficient and effective. To achieve the above
objective the following activities shall be undertaken:


                                              51
    a) Judicial Capacity building through institutional reforms of Drafting Wing & Law
       Commission under the Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs and
       Law Commission.
    b) Judicial Capacity building through improvement of Judicial structure and procedures
       and in view of the above necessary amendments of Laws in relevance to such
       activities.
    c) Effective reforms in Court administration and enhancement of skills of Judges.
    d) Introducing modern information technology (MIS) system in the Judiciary.
    e) Courts management systems.
    f) Improvement of Judicial Training system for the Judges and
    g) Creating adequate opportunity for the People's so as to have easy access Justice.

Describe briefly the main features of revision with justification: The main features are:

·   Extension of the project period:

Extension of the project period by 6 months i.e up to December, 2008. In the revised PP project
period was extended by 18 months i.e up to June, 2008 from December 2006 as per
recommendation of World Bank Supervision Mission. Later on the Development Credit
Agreement ( DCA) signed between the World Bank and the Government of Bangladesh was
amended to endorse the extended timeframe. However, as per amendment and as explained by
the World Bank official present in a stakeholders' meeting held on 13-09-2007 presided over by
the Secretary of Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs, credit closing date for World
Bank is 31st December, 2008 i.e from the World Bank side project effectively ends on 31st
December, 2008. This in effect gives the project 6 more months to complete few more tasks
otherwise would be left incomplete and push the reforms envelope a little bit further. To mush the
World Bank timeframe and to implement incomplete tasks, project completion date needs to be
extended up to 31st December, 2008.

·   Increase in the number of project districts from 26 to 34 (8 in total) for civil Works
    purposes only:

Original DPP (Revised-I) allocated Tk. 148.12 crore to carry out civil construction in the
Supreme Court and 25 District Courts (one project district - Chittagong was outside the purview
of civil works). It is presently estimated that the project will achieve the civil construction target
for Supreme Court and 25 Districts with a lesser investment of Tk. 11874.50 lakh. An amount of
Tk. 2938.03 lakh will be saved after completion of all construction works as has been shown in
the Table -9 of RDPP.

In the meeting of 13-09-2007, it was agreed in the presence of the World Bank representatives
that these savings could be utilized to upgrade court buildings in few more Districts. The Project's
PWD Core Team office has examined and come up with a proposal whereby physical
infrastructure works cans easily be extended in 8 new Districts Courts with the amount of Tk.
2938.03 lakh including some additional works to be done in the JATIC and the Dhaka District
Judge Court. The Court buildings in the following Districts are excessively congested, expansion
of Ejlashes is acutely needed, there is ample scope for vertical extension which can be completed
with the existing architectural and structural designs within the project period. The proposed new

                                                  52
Districts are Jamalpur, Joypurhat, Kishorgonj, Narshindi, Natore, Nogaon, Shatkhira and
Sirajgonj. The resultant number of project Districts for Civil works purposes will increase from
25 to 33 (one project District - Chittagong was outside the purview of civil works) raising the
total number of project Districts from 26 tO 34. The reform processes will not be replicated in
these new Districts as limited time will not permit such replication. Out of the savings Tk.
2938.03 lakh, Tk. 2937.41 lakh will be utilized in these proposed Districts (Table 9 - page 14 of
RDPP-II).

·   Reduction and reallocation of fund earmarked for consultancy services such as
    Implementation of action plan, Legal Literacy Awareness Building, Legal Aid etc. :

Consultancy services such as Legal Literacy Awareness Building and Legal Aid could not be
implemented in full in the rest of the project period due to the long drawn procedures to be
observed for selection of consultants. Similarly, redesigning the implementation of Judicial
reforms by dropping hereto unsuccessful procurement of International Legal Expert, Project
Adviser, Resident Court reforms experts for 20 Districts Courts etc. and reduction of man months
for Strengthening of Supreme Court Registrar's office will create on overall savings of Tk.
1862.56 lakh (Table -9 page 8 of RDPP-II). This saving could be utilized to offset deficit in
capital component.

·   Reallocation of funds saved under security equipments and PA system:

Under the head of security equipments and PA system Tk. 500.00 and Tk. 100.01 lakh will be
saved (Table- 9, page 8 & 9 of RDPP-II) as the procurement of these items are being scrapped as
a consequence of 13-09-2007 meeting's decision, these funds will be used to provide additional
777 nos. computers, 777 nos. printers, 777 nos. UPS, similar nos. of computer tables, chairs and
other accessories, 60 nos. servers, 26 nos. Photocopiers, 7 nos. Laptop, 26 nos. Scanners, 7 nos.
Multimedia Projectors and 104 nos. per drives to the Supreme Court and project Districts courts.
The deficit of Tk. 625.85 lakh under Machinery and equipments -- IDA part head (page 9) will
be offset by the savings generated under revenue component mentioned earlier.

·   Increase in the allocation of funds under furniture head:

Under original PP provision furniture has been provided to new project court buildings handed
over to the project authority. However, furniture for Judicial Administrative officer post
created as part of project induced reforms, furniture for litigants waiting rooms both male and
female, furniture for library rooms etc. could not be provided under original procurement plan
due to lack of funds. The savings earned under revenue component can now be allocated to
those items under the Furniture head to facilitate project induced reforms. The resultant
enhancement of funds under furniture head will be Tk. 191.96 lakh (Table - 9, page- 10 of
RDPP-II).

·   Reduction of Total Project Costs Tk. 1143.17 lakh :

Only a part of the net savings of Tk. 1950,52 lakh generated under revenue component (page-
8) will be used by the enhanced capital expenditures. The net enhancement of funds under

                                               53
capital component will be Tk. 807.35 lakh (page-14). The net decrease of project costs is
therefore, Tk. 1143.17 million (GOB savings Tk. 18.07 lakh and IDA savings Tk. 1124.10
lakh) with total project costs reduced to Tk. 27056.83 lakh ( GOB Tk. 4736.93 lakh and IDA
Tk. 20440.00 lakh with CIDA & DANIDA funds unchanged i.e Tk. 1879.90 lakh).

2. Rationale of the Project in respect of Concept, Design, Location and Timing.

A technical assistance project would have been appropriate to assist. Bangladesh's effort to
improve its legal framework, through the preparation of new and amended laws, and its court
system, through the induction of institutional changes. This alternative, however, was rejected
in favor of investment lending for the reason that part of the problem also is a severe lack of
physical space and other amenities, resulting in loss of judges' time and a mounting case
backlog. This, too, needed to be addressed through upgrading of court infrastructure and
equipment because it has a direct bearing on the efficiency of court.

Because of the phasing/sequencing required in implementing the proposed judicial reforms,
the Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) option was considered; however, under current
circumstances, sufficient knowledge of the issues and possible solutions are now available as
a consequence of diagnostic studies and project preparation activities related to an investment
loan. Moreover, the Government has shown substantial commitment to the proposed
judicial reforms and taken substantial measures pursuant to its commitment, including a recent
judgment by the Supreme Court calling for the separation and independence of the judiciary.
In addition, learning will take place throughout the project which is built into the
implementation scheme. The reforms in the first two District Courts would be replicated in the
other Project Courts, employing lessons and experience from challenges and success that occur
while implementing the initial District reforms. Synergies can be expected to occur in
subsequent applications of experience and expertise gained from the initial group of District
Courts. For these reasons, a LIL was not considered appropriate to respond to the reform
initiatives the Government is undertaken.

The project employs features that might make it eligible for adaptable program lending
(APL); however, there is no major difference between an APL and two or three projects
sequenced to support the various phases of judicial reforms-perhaps within a span of 15 years
that may be needed to complete the judicial reforms process. Moreover, an APL would require
agreeing on a budget at the outset, which may not be appropriate, given that the reforms under
the Project will take six years to complete. If the reforms under the proposed Project are
successful, they will have a significant positive effect. While the project's infrastructure and
technology components are concentrated on the Supreme Court and 21 out of Bangladesh's 64
Districts, the institutional and policy reforms achieved will apply throughout the country.
There are other legal reforms planned under the Government's strategy; however, most of them,
e.g Telecommunication Act, Intellectual Property, and land titles, are in the domain of
ministries and agencies, other than MOL, with many either taken up or being taken up by other
agencies. Some components (e.g legal education) are likely to be supported by other donors.
Therefore, it was considered introduced as discrete components of a future project (s).

3. Brief description on planning and financing of the project and its applicability.


                                                 54
·   Project Identification: The project supports the CAS goal of reforming institutions to
    support the enabling environment for private sector-led growth and for better delivery of
    core public services to civil society and the poor. The need to build and support effective
    institutions underpins the strategic priorities of the CAS. Reforms of the Justice delivery
    system is central to the institutional development goal of the project.

Diagnostic work undertaken during the course of project preparation found that the current laws
of Bangladesh are basically an appropriate foundation for economic activity ( with some
exceptions). The problem really lies with the civil justice system on which those laws depend for
thier interpretation, application, and enforcement. It is true that some laws in Bangladesh, like
those of any other country, have a tendency to constrain the environment for doing business,
and need updating and modernization-e.g, those pertaining to land title registration, legal
barriers to entry and exit in business, protection of industrial/ intellectual property and
information technology, bank loan recovery, and regularly agencies. The most urgent need is to
address the weakness of the civil justice delivery system that applies, interprets, and enforces
the laws.
·                                                                                   Project
    Preparation: In view of the above circumstances Government has prepared this Project with
    the joint collaboration of World Bank.
·                                                                              App
    raisal The Project appraisal document under IDA Credit # 3485_BD was made by the
    World Bank on 1st March, 2001.
·   Credit Negotiation : The credit negotiation was made between the People's Republic of
    Bangladesh and the World Bank.
·   Credit Agreement : The Credit agreement was signed on 30-04-2001.
·   Credit Effectiveness : The Credit effectiveness date was 01-11-2001.
·   Loan Disbursement : The project loan disbursement was started on 2nd February, 2002
    with the initial deposit into the CONTASA account operated under Sonali Bank
    Foreign Exchange Corporate Branch, Motijheel C/A, Dhaka.
·   Loan Conditionality : Consultant contracts have been signed with the reforms advisory
    Consultants (RAC), including a resident legal adviser, a deputy resident legal adviser and other
    technical advisers, and with the case management/Court administration consultants (CMCA).
    A financial expert and an accountant should have been appointed.




·   The project concept paper (PCP) has been approved the Executive committee of the national
    economic council (ECNEC)




·   Project Approval : Approved

                                                 55
·   Others (if any)

4. Analysis of the Post-Implementation situation and result of the project:

4.1 Whether the beneficiaries of the project have clear knowledge about the Target/Objectives
    of the Project : To some extent
4.2 Programme for use of created-facilities of the project: Not applicable

4.3 0 M programme of the project : Not applicable

4.4 Impact of the project
    4.4.1Direct :
    4.4.2Indirect: Yes

4.5 Transfer of Technology and Institutional Building through the project: To some extent

4.6 Employment generation through the project: There is not any direct opportunity for
   employment generation through project but by disbursing a huge amount through the
   project a significant amount of money flow has made various employment opportunities
   in the economy of the country.

4.7 Possibility of Self employment: Yes there are a lot of example for creating job opportunity as
    self employment. Such as Project authority employed 50 IT professionals which may be
    created self employment opportunity.

4.8 Possibility of women-employment opportunity: Project procured huge office equipment,
    Computer and other related accessories for which money flow increased in the economy
    which may create women employment opportunity.

4.9 Women's participation in development: In this project there is no direct involvement of
    Women's participation in development.

4.10 Probable Impact on Socio-Economic activity: Economic analysis of judicial reform projects
    in the context of the role of the state, as reflected in the World Development Report, 1997,
    indicates that the reliability of judicial enforcement in commercial matters and freedom from
    corruption is positively correlated with significantly increased economic activity. Judicial
    reform would improve the enabling environment for business, thus reducing the cost of
    doing business and helping spur growth; in addition, it will also help targeted poverty
    reduction by improving access to justice, especially for underserved populations, i.e the
    poor and women. As a catalytic reform project to build supportive institutional arrangements,
    formal attempts at quantitative cost-benefit or cost effectiveness analysis would be
    misleading. The overall economic benefits from the project may be difficult to quantify;
    however, qualitative assessment can be made on economic growth by reducing the cost of
    doing business and relatedly improving access to justice for the poor and underserved
    populations (especially women) to further social and economic equity, such as reduction

                                                56
   the cost of doing business to promote economic. growth and improved access to justice for
   targeted poverty reduction.

4.11 Impact on environment: There is no direct impact on environment was assessed through this
    project. But it may say that construction and renovation of Supreme court and 26 District
    Judge court Building may contribute better environment of the country.

4.12 Sustainability of the project: The success and sustainability of the project will depend
    largely on the continuing commitment of the Government.

4.13 Contribution to poverty alleviation / reduction: Through this project there is no direct
    activities that could contribute in the poverty alleviation/reduction in the targeted
    community/beneficiaries. But the huge amount as disbursed through the project in the
    economy certainly created some positive impact which must create some significant role for
    alleviation of poverty of the community in passive mome.

4.14 Opinion of the Public representatives, local administration, teachers, religious
   leaders, women's representatives etc.: No direct comments from the project side is
   recorded through formal interaction. But it is learnt from the concerned stakeholder like
   NGO, Supplier, Contractor and related organization that the project could create a very
   positive attitude among the public representatives, local elite, local administration, teachers,
   religious leaders, Women's representatives etc.

4.15 Contribution of Micro-credit Programme and Comments on overlapping with any NGO
    activities. : Through this project there is no possibility of contributing in 'Micro-credit
    program' -which may create overlapping with NGO activities.

Problems encountered during Implementation (with duration & steps taken to remove those):
   There is no Problems encountered during the implementation of the project activities.

Remarks & Recommendations of the Project Director:

Date · Signature and seal of the Project Director

Remarks/Comments of Agency Head




                                                 57
          Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Those representatives of the co-financiers and their implementing agencies that we interviewed
alleged that the task team was opaque and lacked candor and openness. According to those
interviewed, who were posted in Bangladesh during the period 2005 ­ 2008, the task team did
not attend donor meetings and the only person they encountered representing the Bank on the
legal sector was a governance specialist from the-then PREM team. Both co-financiers and
implementing agencies indicated that there was insufficient commitment apparent in the task
team to the most routine and rudimentary practices of good donor relations, such as information
sharing and transparency.

The near absence of communication meant that potential synergies between the Project and the
co-financiers' projects were not exploited. For instance, the JATI courses were obvious places
where the CMCA and ADR reforms could be taught to both new judges and those receiving
refresher training and thus better internalized. Yet, a breakdown in the relationship between the
task team and the expatriate Adviser at DANIDA meant that CMCA was not part of the JATI
curriculum for much of the project's life (at least from 2005 onwards). CIDA also conducted its
own legal aid project, with pilot interventions in Jessore and Gazipur, a duty counsel project in
Dhaka, and a number of studies on legal aid. Yet, none of the lessons from CIDA's projects
informed the Project's legal aid component, and indeed there was no dialogue at all between the
task team and the CIDA implementers. Again, upon the CTG taking office and moving to
implement the Masdar Hossain judgment, and the broader international community moving to
provide any support the CTG required, the task team did not use the opportunity to revitalize the
project or participate in the donor effort. The task team never raised the issue of whether and
how the Project could facilitate the process that was underway.

The head of DANIDA/Deputy Danish Ambassador from 2005-2008, as well as the head of
CIDA made strenuous efforts to organize a joint supervision mission with the Bank team in 2006
and 2007, in the wake of the mid-term review's findings, and when both co-financiers were
reviewing their own future funding in the sector. Not only did such a joint mission never
eventuate, the co-financiers became quite frustrated with various communications by email and
phone often not being responded to by the task team.

The expatriate DANIDA adviser was physically based in the JATI building. He indicated that he
was very much concerned with the poor quality of the JATI building and his own physical safety
(essentially whether the building would collapse). He actually sought the
advice of an engineer about this issue.




                                               58
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.  Project Concept Note
2.  PAD, March 1, 2001
3.  Agreed Minutes of Negotiations
4.  Development Credit Agreement, April 30, 2001
5.  Back-to-Office Reports & Aide Memoires:
        a. November 25-December 11, 2001 (First Supervision Mission)
        b. October 12-29, 2002 (Supervision Mission)
        c. June 1-15, 2003 (Supervision Mission)
        d. July 5-15, 2004 (Supervision Mission)
        e. September 11-25, 2005 (Mid-Term Review Mission)
6. Implementation Status Reports (ISRs) #s 1-15
7. IRIS Baseline Study, October 2003
8. Apex Court Ruling on the Separation of the Judiciary "Secretary, Minstry of Finance vs.
    Masdar Hossain"
9. IRIS Final Project Report, August 31, 2000
10. Report of the Workshop on "IT Activities of the Project District Judge Courts"
    November 2007
11. A Short Status Report and Minutes of Recent Workshop on the Legal and Judicial
    Capacity Building Project
12. Final Report (Volume 1-12) Post Review of Procurement Contracts ­ Legal and Judicial
    Capacity Building Project ­ prepared by A. Qasem & Co., Chartered Accountants, June
    17, 2009.




                                          59
MAP




60
