Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13515-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES PILOT AND DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 28, 1994
Eastern Africa Department
Population and Human Resources Operations Division



(CURR ENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency lUnit                      Uganda Shilling (Ush)
uS$ I 0(                            tish 94(  0
l Ush                              UIS$ 0 1 cO
SDRI                                lISS] 45')24
WEIGHiTS AND MEASURES
NMetric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP                        AIDS Control Program
AIDS                       Acquired Immiune )eficiency Syndrome
CBO                        Community Based Organizations
CHA P                      C(ommunitv Health and AllIS Plroject
('CIW                      (omimunity Health Worker
CSRP                       Civil Sen ice Reform Program
D -NNi)A                   Danish International Development Agencv
lDES                       [District fxecuti\e Secretary
lDi IF IIistrict If ealth ''eam
1,PI                       Expanded lProgram for Immuitization
FHff'                      first If ealtili Project
(I t 11G'(io\ernntent of Uganda
(iI /                      IDeutsche (jesellschafl fur 'I'echnishce Zusammenarbeit
IIPI)                       lealth P'lanining Departmnent
I [IV                      Hluman Inm-nuno-lDeficiencv Virus
IC13                       International Conmpetitive B3idding
IIA                        International l)evelopment Association
IEC                       Informiation, E'ducation and Communications
KfW                        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NlCH                       Mlaternal and Child fHealth
MOFEP                      Ministry of Finance and FconotMic Planning
NIOH                      NMinistry of'llealth
N01                        Mlinistrv ot' Information
M(lG                       Ministry of'l ocal (joyernment
MPS                        Ministry of Public Service
NGO                        Non Cjovernmental Organization
NNMS                       National Medical Stores
NRC                        National Resistance Council
OlDA                       Overseas t)evelopment Administration ( K)
O)l')                      Outpatient I)epartment
PHC                        Primarv I fealth ('are
PCU                       lProject Coordination U'nit
PS                         Plermanent Secretary
RC                         Resistance Committee
SID[A                      Swedish International I)evelopment Authoritv
SI'l)                      Sexualls I'ransmitted Dliseases
S'lTI                      Sexuall 'T'ransmitted Infections
TI'3A                       I raditional 13irth Attendent
I' R                      'I t; l:ertilitv Rate
'IIYHP                      l'hree Year I lealth Plan
llDf IS                    U'ganda Dleimographic and IH ealth Survey
UNl)P                      United Nations Development Plrogram
I NCEf                     U'nited Nations Childien's Fund
U.SAID                     United States Agency for International Development
WI I)                      WVorld flealtil Organization
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in Nlay 1994
comprising Messrs /Mmes V Jagciish (Nfission l.eader), 13 lIlelbling. P Sachdeva, B
Jones, D Dunlop, Y Scium. S lube, K Gill, II Nannyonjo ofthe World 3ank, A Steel,
Consultant, B Wilke and R, SchiuoiaclIer of KfW  NI McNeil, P T'honipson and H
Ifagan of'ODA, A I.agerstedt of SlDIA, and S Postma of DANIDA I'he peer reviewer
is H Saxenian and the lead advisor is B1 Nlc(ireeve Nlr J Nlaas and Nlr F Colaco are
the Dlivision Chief and D)epartment I)irector. respectively for the operation



TABLE OF CONTENTS
BASIC DATA                                                                                            :
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I. THE HEALTH SECTOR                                                                                    1
A. HEALTH  STATUS ................................................                             I
B. THE HEALTH  CARE SYSTEM                        .............................. ..................I
C. HEALTH  EXPENDITURES AND  FINANCING ......................................3
D. HEALTH  PLANS AND  POLICIES ............................................              .....3
E. IDA  INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH  SECTOR ................5-- ..............5
F. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS ................................................. 6
G. LESSONS FROM  OTHER BANK  HEALTH  PROJECTS                                  ......................... 7
II. THE PROJECT                                                                                         9
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                     ..................................... . ..........9
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS   ................................................                       9
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION  ................................................ 10
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION  AND  MANAGEMENT  ......-   ...................... 22
E. MONITORING  AND EVALUATION .............................................                 ... 23
III. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS                                                                                   28
A. COSTS &  FINANCING  OF ESSENTIAL HEALTH  SERVICES                                   .............. 28
B. COSTS OF THE DISTRICT HEALTH  SERVICES PROJECT ........ ......... 29
C. PROCUREM 1ENT   ................................................                            33
D. DISBURSEMENT &  SPECIAL ACCOUNTS ............................................ 36
E .  A U D IT IN G                                       ................................................ 37
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS                                                                                  39
V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                        42



TABLES
Table 3.1  Financing the Essential Health Service Package in Three Pilot
and Ten Demonstration Districts in Uganda During a Five Year
Plan DI ISP Project Period Beginning in FY1995  ..........             ............. 29
Table 3.2   Component Project Cost Summary ..... ........................................... 30
Table 3.3   Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary  .. .........................  31
Table 3.4  Financing Plan .... .......                  .....................     ........... 33
Table 3.5   Procurement Arrangements .................               .......................... 35
Table 3.6  Allocation and Disbursement ofthe IDA Credit   ............................. 36
ANNEXES
Annex I   Project Costs Table                                                                 44
Annex 2   Costing Methodology                                                                 45
Annex 3   Letter of Sector Policy and Action Plan                                             52
Annex 4   The Essential Health Package of Uganda .                    .                       64
Annex 5   Organization and Management of Government Health Services .. 70
Annex 6    Summary of Burden of Disease for Uganda ............................... ......     77
Annex 7   Health Expenditures and Financing  ..78
Annex 8    Supervision Strategy              ...    .                                         84
Annex 9    Operational Plan                                                                   87
Annex 10  Procurement Plan                       ........................          ......... 88
Annex 11  Project Organization and Management                    .................................... 91
Annex 12  Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule  ...... .................................. 92
Annex 13  Technical Assistance Provided by the Project Contractual
Services                       .................................... 94
Annex 14  Guidelines for NGO  Participation ...................... ..............  95
Annex 15  Documents available in Project File .................................... 100
MAP IBRD No. 25052R



i
BASIC DATA
Country Data
Per Capita GDP                                                 $180
Total Population                                               17.5m
Population Growth Rate                                         2.8
Population, Health and Nutrition Indicators
Infant Mortality Rate (WDR94)                                  122
Maternal Mortality Rate                                        550
Crude Death Rate                                               22
Crude Birth Rate                                               50
Total Fertility Rate                                           7.1
Life Expectancy at Birth                                       47
Malnutrition of under 5 years                                  45%
Population per physician                                       24,700
Population per Nurse                                           8,900
Births attended by health staff                                39%
Public Expenditures on Health
MOH share of total Government Budget                           10.9%b
MOH share of GDP                                                2.0%






ii
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Uganda
Implementing
Agencies:        Ministry of Health (MOH), Non Government Organizations (NGOs);
and Community Based Organizations (CBOs)
Beneficiaries:   Gradually increasing to about 4 million people in approximately 10
districts with approximately 2 million of them women
Poverty:         Program of targeted interventions.
Credit Amount:  SDR 30.9 million (US$ 45.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard, with 40 year maturity
Financing
Plan:            See Chapter 3, Table 3.4
Net Present
Value:           Not applicable.
Map:             IBRD No. 25052R






I. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. HEALTH STATUS
1.1    The health status of Uganda's 17.5 million people is poor. Life expectancy at birth is
only 47 years (versus 59 years in low-income countries generally), the crude death rate is 19
per 1000 population (versus 10 per 1000 in low-income countries); the under-5 mortality rate
is 185 per 1000 live births (versus 100 per thousand in low-income countries); and about 23%
of children in a survey were found to display low weight-for-age, reflecting nutritional
deficiencies. The leading causes of death are AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, for adults; and
malaria, pneumonia, and diarrhea for children. The leading causes of illness and death are all
preventable, although with varying degrees of difficulty.
1.2    Uganda's health problems are compounded by a high total fertility rate (TFR) of 7. 1,
reflecting a contraceptive prevalence rate of only 5%, and yielding a high population growth
rate of 2.8%. A comparative study based on Demographic and Health Surveys from eleven
countries found that, within this group, Ugandan women had the least access to family
planning services. Uganda's maternal mortality rate of about 550 per 100,000 live births is
more than twelve times higher than in developed countries, and a survey found that 7% of
young Ugandan women reported having had an abortion.
B. THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
1.3     Roles of Government and non governmental sectors. The Government sector
accounts for 62% of hospital beds and 58% of registered outpatient clinics. Government
health facilities suffer from a shortage of funds, particularly for essential supplies and
pharmaceuticals, staff salaries and incentives, and routine maintenance of equipment and
facilities. Although the non governmental sector accounts for only 38% of hospital beds, it
provides 54% of bed-days, reflecting greater capacity utilization and staff productivity. NGO
facilities pay their staff significantly more than the government. Health facilities are well-
distributed throughout the country, except for the North which is underserved and existing
facilities are in a state of disrepair.
1.4     Utilization of the health care system. A population-based health budget survey
found that, among households surveyed who had experienced a recent illness, 21% visited a
Government facility, and 31 % visited a Non Government Organization (NGO) or other
private facility, while 48% resorted to informal sector providers. The limited utilization of the
formal health care system is also illustrated by the Uganda Demographic and Health Survey
(UDHS) 1988/89, which found that only 3% of births are attended by doctors, only 36% by
nurse/midwives, and that almost 60% of births take place outside the formal health delivery
system. Among toddlers, only 24% had received a full set of recommended immunizations,
and only about 40% were fully immunized against DPT and measles. Thus, at present neither
the Government nor the NGOs provide adequate primary health care to a majority of the
population.



1.5     Organization of Government health services. The Government health care
system has been organized into three principal tiers: Mulago Hospital, the national referral
hospital, in Kampala, the district hospital, headed by a Medical Superintendent, reporting
directly to the Ministry of Health; and lower-level facilities in each district, reporting to the
District Medical Officer of the Ministry of Health, The upper tiers have been administered by
the Ministry of Health, while district administrations have had responsibility, in principle, for
the lower-level facilities. In fact, most of the health workers in the lower-level facilities are on
the MOH payroll and are seconded to local governments.
1.6     The health sector will be affected in a major way by the Government's ongoing
Decentralization program, which transfers control of most Government services from Central
Government ministries to District governments. Ministry headquarters will be streamlined to
a core of policy makers, planners, and inspectors. The Local Governments Statute, 1993,
provides the legal framework for decentralization, including changes in: (a) personnel
management, (b) budget and financial management, and (c) sectoral functions, powers, and
responsibilities.
1 7     The Statute states that the District Executive Secretary shall be the chief executive
officer and accounting officer for the District Resistance Council, and will supervise officers
seconded from Central Government ministries, as well as locally-hired staff. District Service
Committees will be established to exercise powers relating to District personnel management,
formerly exercised by the Public Service Commission.
1.8     Beginning with the 1993/94 financial year, district votes (earmarked by sector) were
created for 13 districts in the national government budget, so that recurrent expenditure
allocations can be sent directly from the Treasury to the district. Fourteen more districts have
been added with the 1994/95 financial year, and the remaining twelve districts will receive
their recurrent budget allocations directly from Treasury beginning with the 1995/96 financial
year. The Statute enables local administrations to charge fees for any services provided by
them. A Local Government Accounts Committee and a Local Government Tender Board will
be established in each district.
1.9     The Statute provides that a Minister may issue an instrument of devolution fully
transferring functions, powers, and responsibilities to a local government, or may delegate
functions and powers to a local government, in which case the final responsibility shall
continue to vest in the delegating party.
1. 10   For the health sector, the implication is that the central mission of the MOH will
evolve, relatively away from service provision, toward formulating a policy framework within
which health services can be efficiently and equitably provided by district health
administrations and non governmental providers, with MOH retaining whatever specialized
"vertical" responsibilities cannot be decentralized efficiently. A Task Force on Health Services
Decentralization, drawn from MOH, the Ministry of Local Government (MOLG), and the
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MOFP), has submitted a Report (June 1993)
making specific recommendations, including restructuring of vertical programs, and



3
integration at the district level, of many components of current, donor-financed vertical
programs. In addition, the Ministry of Public Service (MPS) has submitted a report
(September 1993), as part of the Civil Service Reform program, for restructuring MOH.
Additional details of this Report and IDA's comments are given in Annex 5. The report has
been reviewed and approved by Cabinet.
C. HEALTH EXPENDITURES AND FINANCING
1.11    Health Expenditures. Total health spending (public plus private) in Uganda
(Annex 7) stands at only $7.73 per capita (Government health expenditure, $2.82 per capita;
household health expenditure, $4.91 per capita - Annex 7), as compared with $11-19 per
capita in most Sub-Saharan African countries, and an estimated cost of $12 per capita in low-
income countries to provide a minimum package of the health services which are most cost-
effective in averting the Burden of Disease.  Analysis done for the Bank's Social Sector
Strategy report found that Government health expenditure was skewed toward subsidization
of curative services in hospitals, with public health and preventive services seriously under-
funded.2
1.12    Health Financing. NGO facilities recover most of their costs through user charges.
At the local level, many Government health units, with the approval of their management
committees, have begun to charge fees. A study in Kabarole district found that revenues from
user charges in Government health units were used for supplies, repairs, transportation, and
staff allowances, contributing to increased availability of health workers and reduced waiting
time. Interviewees generally expressed willingness to pay higher fees to obtain further
improvements in service.3 In the 1992 Budget Speech, it was announced that Government
hospitals would be allowed to operate private wings which would charge full cost. As already
noted above, the authority of local administrations to charge fees for services is recognized by
the Local Governments Statute. User charges are playing an increasing role in the financing
of Government health services though this is still at an early stage. A comprehensive analysis
of the consequences and effects of user charges for the poor and vulnerable groups is needed.
Initiatives have also been taken in order to study the possibility and feasibility to introduce
health insurance schemes.
D. HEALTH PLANS AND POLICIES
1.13    The Ministry of Health issued the Three Year Health Plan (TYHP) Frame 1993-
95 in December 1992. TYHP proposes a strategy emphasizing rehabilitation; reallocation of
resources more toward prevention and promotion, collection of significant amounts from user
charges, and considei-ation of tlie role of NGO facilitics
I  The Burden of Disease and the varying cost-effectiveness of different health interventions are explained in
IYorld Developenten Report 1993: Investing in hlealth.
2  Report No. 10765-UG, Uganda: Social Sector Strategy.
3  J. Kamugisha, "Health Cost Sharing in Kabarole District" (June 1993).



4
1.14    Elaborating on the themes of the TYHP, and also building upon its participation in
the Eastern Africa Health Strategy Workshop (a World Development Report dissemination
activity) in June 1993, the Ministry of Health prepared the White Paper on Health Policy,
which was approved by the Cabinet in November 1993. The White Paper recognizes that it
will be necessary both to mobilize more resources for the health sector, and allocate resources
more efficiently. The White Paper states that the health sector strategy should reflect the
overall public expenditure strategy set out in The Way Forward II, of taking into account the
comparative advantages of the public and private sectors, avoiding spreading Government
resources thinly and ineffectively, and ensuring that public expenditures within priority sectors
are cost effective. As applied to the health sector, these principles mean that the Government
should concentrate on public health interventions, and on ensuring that the most cost-effective
clinical services are available to the majority of the population. Public health interventions are
those whose utilization or benefits are not limited to one individual.
1 .15    Under the theme of increased resource mobilization, the White Paper proposes that
the recent trend of devoting an increasing share of the Central Government budget to the
health sector should continue. Central Government expenditure on health, including external
aid, was budgeted at 60 billion Uganda Shillings in 1992/93, and 91 billion shillings in
1993/94. In the decentralized system, districts may decide to supplement Central Government
allocations, by raising revenues locally to improve service quality. The Government will
develop guidelines for the protection of the poor as well as for appropriate practices to ensure
accountability.
1.16    Under the theme of more efficient resource utilization, the following policies are put
forward:
(a)    Resources will be shifted from hospital-based curative services, toward more
cost-effective preventive and promotive services.
(b)    Under the decentralization policy, detailed planning of health services will take
place at the district and lower levels, involving communities. District health
administrations will be provided with training in planning, budgeting, and
financial management The role of the MOH will change, and under the
decentralized system its major responsibilities will include health policy
formulation, standard-setting, training and capacity building, supervision, and
medical auditing.
(c)    The functional capacity and efficiency of essential existing Government
facilities will be restored through repairs to buildings and providing necessary
equipment, drugs, and supplies, but expansion by building new hospitals and
major facilities will be discouraged  The staffing of the Government health
services will be rationalized. Mulago Hospital will become autonomous, with
the establishment of a Board responsible for the management of the hospital
and its resources. As the leading referral and teaching hospital of the country,



5
Mulago will reduce its provision of primary and secondary services and a
strategic plan for the delivery of health services in the Kampala area will be
developed.
(d)   Closer collaboration with NGOs and the private sector will be developed, in
order to reduce duplication, improve services, and make health infrastructure
development more affordable. Appropriate financing arrangements will be
pilot-tested.
(e)   In order to strengthen the management capacity of the health sector, the roles
and responsibilities of institutions in the health system will be clearly defined,
the availability and utilization of information will be improved, and mechanisms
will be established to monitor and evaluate inputs, outputs, and outcomes
(impact).
1.17    The White Paper provides an excellent basis for the future development of the health
sector in Uganda. However, substantial institutional strengthening and well-directed financial
assistance from donors will be needed for the effective implementation of these policies.
1.18    With guidance from the Ministry of Health, three-year District Health Plans were
prepared for 38 districts during 1992-93. For district level capacity building, 38 districts have
already completed preparation for the next 2-3 years. Detailed work plans and budgets with
assistance from the MOH's Health Planning Unit (HPU) and technical advisers provided by SIDA
have been completed for 3 pilot districts where their implementation is now underway.
E. IDA INVOLVEMENT IN THE HEALTH SECTOR
1.19    IDA is financing an ongoing First Health Project (FHP) which became effective in
1988. The Mid-Term Review of the Project conducted in August 1992 spelled out the
following problems.
*     Long delays between credit signing and credit effectiveness;
*     Inadequate and untimely release of counterpart funds,
*     Delays in procurement of goods and services and weak contract
administration;
*     Inadequate use of Special Account Funds and delays in disbursement
processing;
*     Poor financial management and budgetary controls and unsatisfactory
compliance with audit covenant;
*     Inadequate utilization of technical assistance support,
*     Inadequate salary and incentive payments to government employees supporting
project implementation; and
*     Ineffective project management and coordination.



6
1.20    The MOH undertook a number of corrective steps to improve project performance.
These steps have begun to bear fruit. In spite of these problems, the rates of Credit
disbursement are among the highest in Uganda for Government/IDA projects. FHP design
was ambitious in scope, based on good prior sector analysis, but did not fully anticipate the
constraining effects of known risks, particularly effects outside the health sector particular, in
regard to tendering and civil works. The initial difficulties have been overcome and though
some problems remain the project is expected to be completed on schedule. These included
strengthening of project management, closer supervision by senior MOH officials, and
increased availability of counterpart funds.
1.21    Discussions on health policy reform have resulted in efforts to develop a new
project. Initially a Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) was proposed to address
health policy issues and to support efforts to contain the growing AIDS epidemic. As
preparation proceeded it was decided to split CHAP into 2 closely linked projects -- an
STD/AIDS project and, a District Health Services Project Pilot and Demonstration Project
(DHSP). The STI Project, for US$ 73.4 became effective in July 22, 1994. In the context of
DHSP, IDA is seeking to reach agreement with the government on a Letter of Sector Policy
and Action Plan for the health sector, aiming at monitorability of implementation of the most
important policies in the White Paper (paras. 1.10 - 1.13). Drafts of the LSP and Action Plan
have already been discussed with the Ministry of Health and are attached as Annex 3. The
project is in complete conformity with IDA's country strategy for Uganda which emphasizes
poverty alleviation.
F. ROLE OF OTHER MAJOR DONORS
1.22    The combination of political stability, economic stability, and years of neglect by
donors have made Uganda an attractive and receptive recipient of foreign assistance. The
World Bank and the European Community are the largest multilateral donors while USAID,
ODA, GTZ, SIDA and DANIDA have been the most important bilateral donors.
1.23    Many multilateral, bilateral and private (NGO) donors support health activities of
various sizes and scopes. The MOH and most local NGOs receive the majority of their
support from these donors. According to a survey contracted by ODA (UK), Uganda
received US$ 115.0 million for health and US$ 14.0 million for population in financial year
1991-92 out of which US$ 65.0 million came from multilateral sources, US$ 45.0 million
from bilateral and US$ 17.0 million from NGO sources.
1.24    In recent years, as donor contributions and coordination in health have increased, the
need to avoid duplication has become clear. IDA is in regular contact with all major donors
through donor coordination meetings and personal visits by Bank staff The GOU has also
encouraged major donors to operate in separate districts in order to distribute resources more
evenly.
1.25    WHO provides long and short-term technical assistance to the GOU and has been
one of the main financial supporters of the AIDS Control Program (ACP) primarily in the



7
areas of IEC, epidemiology, patient care and STD control. Uganda is one of four countries
where WHO sponsored HIV vaccine trials will be launched. The United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) provides funding for the Uganda AIDS Commission
Secretariat and supports small, community-based projects concentrating on AIDS education
and counseling, care and education of orphans, and care of people with AIDS. UNICEF
provides funding to the Ministries of Health and Education to support the Health Education
Network. One component is a new Safeguarding Youth from AIDS project, which focuses
especially on preventing HIV infection among young women.
1.26    The United States Agency for International Development's (USAID) Delivering
Improved Health Services project has begun a sixth year, US$ 25.0 million program in 10
districts of Uganda to reduce HIV transmission and fertility. It will focus on reproductive
health, IEC, provide HIV testing and counseling, and STD diagnosis. Condom and STD
drugs will not be provided on a large scale. USAID also has a US$ 12.0 million program,
which is contracted to World Learning Inc..
1.27    The European Community finances the national blood bank, which is responsible for
maintaining an HIV-free blood supply and conducts most of the HIV testing in Uganda. The
EC is also financing the rehabilitation of health facilities and service delivery in eight districts
and plans to expand this to three more districts. DANIDA (Denmark) provides major funding
and technical assistance for the provision of essential drugs and for the improved operation of
the Central Medical Stores. SIDA (Sweden) has provided substantial assistance to the STI
sub sector through GPA, UNICEF and the World Bank. SIDA is co-financing the IDA
supported First Health project and substantial resources for the preparation of the proposed
District Health Services Project. The National TB care and Leprosy program, launched in
1990, covers 22 districts. It is funded by a German NGO and the Italian government.
1.28    Several international NGOs are operating in fields related to improvement of health
status and a multitude of National NGOs have emerged. This project will take advantage of
these resources by utilizing selected NGOs to implement some components.
G. LESSONS FROM THE OTHER BANK HEALTH PROJECTS
1.29    A review of lessons of experience from other Bank projects, in health and related
sectors, revealed three problem areas: (a) overly ambitious and complex designs overloaded
the institutional capacity for project implementation in many cases; (b) lack of borrower
commitment to project objectives impeded implementation when projects stretched over too
many years; and (c) some borrowers proved unable or unwilling to finance incremental
recurrent costs after IDA lending ceased.
1.30    The design of the proposed project anticipates these problems with the following
features: (a) responding to the express needs of intermediate and final beneficiaries of the
project through a decentralized district approach including increased NGO and Community
Based Organization (CBO) participation; (b) pilot testing the delivery of the essential health
services package in 3 districts, thereby testing and if necessary strengthening the absorptive



8
capacity of district administrations; (c) a Letter of Sector Policy setting forth the
Government's commitment and steps to improve the health status of its people; and (d) by
fully costing the essential health services package, the Government is well aware of the
recurrent cost implications the program entails.



II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.1     The ultimate objective of IDA's involvement in Uganda's health sector and in the
improvement of the health status of its people, is to contribute to overall economic
productivity by enhancing the human capital of the population. The objective of this
project is to pilot-test and demonstrate the feasibility of delivering an essential health
services package to district populations, within a prudent financial policy framework for
the sector in order to improve the efficiency and equity in the provision of health services.
These objectives will be pursued through an integrated program of policy, institutional and
financial improvements, with close monitoring.
2.2     The project is designed to support the Government's strategy of decentralizing
health services. It plans to increase the efficiency of the existing health infrastructure and
institutions through consolidation and improved management with increased local
accountability, while simultaneously supporting cost recovery and budgetary policies that
will enable the health care system to move toward long term sustainability. It supports the
Government's efforts to reorder priorities within the existing health care system through
efficiency improvements and by reallocating financial and human resources toward
ensuring the provision of a package of essential health services for all Uganda's citizens.
Moreover, the project provides the basis for a continuing dialogue with the Government
on the development of the health sector.
2.3     Accordingly, the proposed project would (a) pilot and test new sector policies
and strategies which will facilitate the implementation of essential health services; (b)
strengthen management and planning capacity at district levels so that they are prepared to
provide essential health services; and (c) restructure the MOH so as to build its capacity to
provide health policy leadership and to support the Government's decentralization policy.
B. PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.4     Consistency with Government Health Sector Strategy. The structure of this
project reflects and supports the movement in Uganda toward decentralization and
community mobilization. The national health policy framework is reflected in the Letter of
Sector Policy and Action Plan, attached as Annex 3. Emphasis will be placed on
reallocating Government expenditures toward a package of essential health services,
improving the sustainability of all health services through cost recovery and insurance
schemes; improving the efficiency of services through institutional autonomy such as Self-
Governing Trusts, and experimentation with contracting out and voucher schemes.
2.5     The proposed project has four main components corresponding to the objectives
identified in the previous Section. The components of the project are. Pilot Activities;
Demonstration Activities; Capacity Building for District Health Administrations, and
Restructuring and Capacity Building for MOH. These four components are presented as a
package to ensure the implementation and sustainability of the essential package of health



lo
care services at the district level in conformity with the central policy thrust of the
Government of Uganda. The project is designed to be flexible and innovative so as to
encourage community initiatives, and to respond to changing circumstances which will
evolve through implementation of policy reform.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Enabling Policy Environment
2.6     The Government of Uganda is committed to the provision of a package of
essential health services to all its citizens. Achieving this goal requires a thorough
reexamination of the way health services are delivered in the country today, the
introduction of suitable and sustainable policies, the development of appropriate
institutional capacity at the national and district levels, and, the full use of private
providers. This project will pilot and demonstrate the feasibility of delivering an essential
health services package to district populations via all providers and will develop national
and district capability for subsequent nationwide expansion. Baseline surveys will be
undertaken prior to project effectiveness in the pilot districts to provide a benchmark for
systematic monitoring and evaluation.
2.7     Policy Environment of the Package of Essential Health Services. The
policies set forth in the Letter of Sector Policy will be implemented in a phased manner as
set out in annual implementation plans. Uganda's Ministry of Health has collaborated with
the IDA project appraisal team to define a package of essential health services. While
district level modifications may be desirable and necessary, the adoption of an essential
health services package for the country is necessary. The implications of such a policy are
that, government expenditures in the health sector will increasingly finance components of
the essential package of health services. Government financing of non essential health
services is expected to decline significantly.
Part A. Pilot Activities (US$ 8.2 million)
2.8     Identification of Cost-Effective Services. The MOH produced the 7hree Year
Health P'lan Frame, 1993194 - 1995/96 which set national policies and priorities, districts
used the national guidelines to develop their own detailed plans taking into account their
particular health conditions, resources and local priorities. The districts selected activities
based on their own experience and implementation capacity, guidance from national
experts and international experience. In their endeavor to improve the effectiveness of
health services, the district plans have been guided by ideas similar to those in the World
D)evelopment Report, 1993, by identifying a package of essential and cost-effective health
services the government would take responsibility for delivering throughout each district.
As part of the Eastern Africa Burden of Disease workshop which was completed in
August 1994, a team of officials from Uganda participated in the development of a
package of essential health services and the results of that work have been fully integrated
into the design of the project. The districts have an established basis from which to
proceed. It is recognized that districts will not be able to reach full service coverage by



II
the end of the project. The objectives are to provide the essential package of health
services to about 60% of the population of each district from the current level of 20%.
Pilot testing of these activities will evaluate the absorptive capacity of the district. Health
staff have had little experience in handling funds or in taking decisions at the local level.
Training to correct these shortcomings has been provided. Project costings are consistent
with the 60% coverage objective.
2.9     Implementation of Essential Services in Selected Districts. The project will
initially support the implementation of essential health services in three districts (Soroti,
Mukono and Masindi). Based on the experience gained in these three pilot districts,
essential health services will be extended to about ten districts during the life of the
project. Activities in three other districts (Gulu, Kabale and Tororo) have commenced
with funding from the First Health Project and SIDA. These districts will also be
evaluated before proceeding with the demonstration phase. All districts included in the
project must have been decentralized by the central government. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that only districts whose recurrent budgets have been
decentralized by the central government will be included in the project (para. 5.1 (a)).
2.10    Package of Essential Health Services. Health services interact with
households in two fundamentally different ways. Public health programs strike against
health problems of entire populations or population subgroups. Their objective is to
prevent disease or injury and to provide information on self-cure and on the importance of
seeking care. Clinical services respond to demand from individuals. They generally seek
to cure or to ease the pain of those already sick. The package of essential health services
is a mixture of the most cost-effective public health programs and clinical services to be
provided to the greatest number of beneficiaries. The Government of Uganda faced
difficult choices about the best use of public money to identify a desirable combination of
public health and clinical services. Drawing upon the Burden of Disease/Cost
Effectiveness Analysis, and also the district health plans, the MOH decided the following
services would constitute a cost-effective package:
(a)    Malaria Control,
(b)    MCH/FP/EPI Services,
(c)    Hygiene, Sanitation and Water,
(d)    Nutrition,
(e)    TB and STI Control,
(f)    Treatment of Other Common Diseases and Health Problems, and,
(g)    Continue Surveillance and Treat Special Health Problems such as Guinea
Worm, Schistosomiasis, Trypanosomiasis, Onchocerciasis, and Meningitis.
2.11    District Work Plans/Annual Allocation of Resources to Selected Districts.
Districts will prepare annual workplans, including a budget for the services to be carried
out. 38 districts have prepared plans. These will be evaluated and reformulated on an
annual basis. A formula has been developed to ensure an equitable allocation of IDA
credit resources between districts . For essential services, the allocation of resources will
be based on the total population of the district, weighted by the infant mortality rate and



12
absorptive capacity constraints. The allocation also depends on the funding levels of other
donors active in the district. Recurrent costs supporting the managerial and supervisory
activities of DMOs (and their staff) is fixed on the assumption that overhead costs are
similar between districts. The project will not support any new capital development,
except in districts located in the Northern Region where civil strife has inhibited
rehabilitation This support will be limited to rehabilitation of buildings and provision of
equipment required for the provision of essential health services or for the management of
those health services.
2. 12    For purposes of this project the TB/STI control activities have been excluded as
they are fully funded. Details of each element of the essential package are given in Annex
4.
2.13     The project will support drugs, vitamins, equipment and supplies, bed nets
(malaria control), valley tanks, wells (sanitation), training, research and studies,
monitoring and evaluation and short term technical assistance.
2 14     District Level Supporting Services. In addition to the delivery of the clinical
and public health services embodied in the essential package components, the district level
supporting services are necessary for the implementation and sustainability of the essential
service package elements. These vital supporting service components have been identified
and include. (a) strengthen district health team supervision activities including
development of IEC materials and services; (b) social mobilization of the community to
extend these public health package activities in their respective districts and communities;
(c) provide continuing education for health care providers to improve technical skills and
to train community based health workers such as TBAs and CHWs, (d) equip and
rehabilitate buildings, and health facilities, (e) develop sustainable repair and maintenance
services for health equipment, facilities, and transport, (f) conduct necessary operational
research, and (g) design and implement monitoring and evaluation system, including for
assessing the ex-post cost-effectiveness of essential package elements.
2 15    There are five areas of specific support required throughout all pilot and
demonstration districts to enhance the long term sustainability of the essential services
identified by the appraisal mission and recognized as essential by officials of the Ugandan
government First, work must be developed and implemented on a number of individual
tests of evolving district level user charges for publicly provided health care services. This
activity will include work on financial management, accounting system implementation,
assessing feasibility of facility pricing proposals, feasibility studies of drug revolving funds
and other community based income generating activities through which health services
may be financed, local health insurance proposals, and the financial feasibility of health
facility trusts. Work is also envisioned to encourage private investments in the health
sector and initiatives to provide essential health packages to workers of large and medium
size private firms.
2. 16    Second, districts must be used to develop procedures and methods to contract
out repair and maintenance services for vehicles, equipment and buildings, and for the



13
rehabilitation of facilities requiring major work. Third, contracting mechanisms proposed
for use by districts to procure specified health services, including from NGOs and private
providers are to be developed and strengthened to accommodate existing and envisioned
management requirements. Fourth, options for paying health workers at all levels,
including in the community, will be assessed in terms of their productivity in delivering
quality essential health services and sustaining that service delivery. The options tested
will include a district health team bonus scheme to assess the usefulness and workability of
bonuses based on health status improvement. Finally, resources required to assess the ex-
post health status impact of delivering the essential health package will be incorporated
into the project with significant district health team involvement in the design of the
assessment, but implemented and analyzed by an independent organization such as the
Central Statistics Office of the MOFEP.
2.17    Modifications in the Essential Package and The Cost of the Package as
Proposed Within the Project Districts. It is likely that the definition of the essential
package may require modification over the life of the project and adjustments made as
priorities change. The annual district health plans include an analysis of the essential
package mix, and, will, if necessary, make recommendations for its revision and
substitutions. The WDR, 93 estimates that it costs between $12-21 to provide the
essential health services package per capita. While the essential health package may be
modified over the life of the project in some districts, the costs will undoubtedly continue
to be in the above mentioned range. The essential health service package as it has been
described above is estimated to cost about $1 1. 10 per capita per year to cover about 60%
of the population (Annex 2).
Part B. Demonstration Activities (US$ 19.1 million)
2.18    Upon the completion of an assessment of the delivery, management and impact
of the essential health package in the three pilot districts, an additional seven districts will
be incorporated into the project during the project demonstration phase. During this
phase, the findings of the first phase assessment will be implemented more widely in these
additional districts.
2.19    In that regard, it is anticipated that managerial and sustainability issues of
managing cost recovery, extending and sustaining community based essential health care
delivery and experimeniting with optional managerial incentive structures to sustain and
monitor program impact will be emphasized. These issues, among many others, will
require support from the project and the cooperating international organizations. For
example, while many Ugandans are now paying for the health care they obtain, it is
unclear how a publicly operated facility will be able to manage the resources generated
from the community to sustain the cost-effective package of essential health services
identified h , tit, .vl()1I duiring the period of developing the Three Year FIlealth Plan. It will
be important to learn from those districts involved in the pilot phase how a management
system can be implemented throughout the district to manage user charge generated
resources to finance essential services and then test these ideas and systems on a larger
basis in the additional demonstration districts.



14
2.20    In addition, several important essential health package activities will require a
much larger implementation test during the demonstration phase. The most important of
these activities include: a) a full scale test of community based mechanisms to sell and
maintain impregnated bed nets for up to one third of the district's population, and b)
efforts to increase the use of pit latrines. Finally, it will be critical to learn how to work
more closely with private health providers in increasing the availability of quality
preventive essential health services in such areas as reproductive health, TB and STI
control, and diarrheal disease prevention.
2.21    Establishing improved working relationships with the mission groups in those
districts involved in the project to extend the delivery of essential health services will be
important. However, it will be more difficult to develop and sustain these relationships
with other modern and traditional providers, even to the community level during the life of
this project. It is expected therefore, that during the demonstration phase of the project,
this aspect of the project will require further emphasis.
2.22    The project will finance drugs, vitamins, equipment and supplies, bed nets
(malaria control), valley tanks, wells (sanitation), training, research and studies,
monitoring and evaluation and short term technical assistance.
2.23    Finally, it will be important to test alternative approaches of personnel
remuneration of the district health management team to obtain the desired health status
outcome from the set of essential services being implemented via this project. Often
information systems have not worked in the past since the staff in the field have not been
motivated to provide the type of information required to complete such an assessment.
During this demonstration phase, ideas which appear feasible during the pilot phase can
undergo additional testing prior to full implementation throughout the entire country.
2.24     Since not all Ugandan districts will be assisted via this district support
component of the project, four criteria have been established for including a district during
this phase. First, the district must be one of the districts to be decentralized by the Central
government. Second, it must have a district health policy and implementation plans
satisfactory to IDA. Third, it must volunteer for inclusion in the project on an annual
basis. Fourth, it must ensure that ongoing health programs supported by external donors
are undertaken within the framework of the essential health services package. The number
of districts to be selected for this component is indicative and will depend on the success
of the initial pilot phase. A condition of disbursement for the demonstration
component is the successful completion of the pilot phase (para. 5.3). The criteria for
successful completion of the pilot phase are:
(a)    D)isbursemeri oat least 60% of the approved budget of the district-
(b)    Timely submission of quarterly progress reports and plans in accordance
with the project implementation manual,



Is
(c)    Satisfactory quarterly financial reports in accordance with the project
implementation manual; and
(d)    Satisfactory completion of scheduled management training programs for
the District Health Team.
Progress of the demonstration activities, with emphasis on the administrative and logistical
aspects of sustaining service delivery will be reviewed periodically (at least once a year)
and the pace of expansion/replication in each district will be determined on the basis of
appropriate performance indicators. Necessary assurances to that effect were obtained
during negotiations (para. 5.1 (b)).
Part C. Capacity Building for District Health Administrations (US$ 36.7 million)
2.25    District Health Administration. The project will support institutional
development of the District Health Teams to enable them to assume newly acquired
management responsibilities effectively. The DMO will be responsible for inspection and
control of health operations. He/She will also assume greater responsibility for
management of human, physical and financial resources; planning and programming,
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation. District Health Committees made up of
political and community representatives will manage resources and participate in program
development within each district at the RCV level. The DMO is the secretary of this
committee. The DMO will have primary responsibility for financial control and
monitoring and controlling financial resources collected through cost recovery and will be
accountable to the PS., MOH. In collaboration with the DMO, the PCU will review
monthly financial reports, monitor expenditures and define financing needs. The project
will provide computers and office equipment for the district medical offices.
2.26    The project will provide training to district health teams. Training will focus on
the development of skills in management, planning, accounting, stock inventory, drug
supply management, health information systems, training and supervision of staff,
monitoring and evaluation. Training in the management of financial resources will be
conducted as appropriate. The project will also finance training in quality assurance
management
2.27    Because the Government's program of decentralization will have covered all 39
districts by FY 96-97, and to ensure that all districts develop the capacity to efficiently and
effectively deliver the essential package, it is proposed that the DHSP's capacity building
activities cover the nation in a phased manner over the 5-year project implementation
period. Most capacity building activities would focus on the district and lower levels.
Central level activities would be geared to ensuring that district level activities are
supported by a strong (though not large) suitably-organized MOH, capable of undertaking
its primary functions of policy making, planning, inspection, technical support and training.
This approach would also ensure that the DHSP complements the IDA-funded Uganda
Capacity Building Project that will also be nationwide in scope, and is expected to become
effective in early 1995.



16
2.28    During project implementation, DHSP staff and advisors would work closely
with line departments of the MOH (particularly the Health Planning Department (HPD)),
so that nationwide coverage of the capacity building activities could be accomplished in
the first 3 years of DHSP implementation (covering 15, 30 and 39 districts, respectively, in
years 1, 2 and 3). This is considered feasible because intensive district-level capacity
building has already started in 3 pilot districts, funded by the ongoing First Health Project,
with assistance from 3 SIDA-funded advisors attached to the DHSP (preparation) Office
and because of the completion of district health plans for 38 districts. Management
systems for detailed work planning, budgeting, implementation and monitoring are being
developed in conjunction with the national guidelines being prepared by the
Decentralization Secretariat.
2.29    Supporting NGOs and private health units to provide essential health
services. At present, in Uganda, NGOs are largely curative oriented, their only common
public health activities are vaccinations (funded under EPI) and, in some cases, antenatal
care (largely paid for by patients). There is scope for increased involvement by both
NGOs and the private clinics which are usually entirely curative to provide public health
and preventive services. The project proposes to: (a) encourage NGO units to carry out
school health activities; (b) increase the number of units offering reproductive health
services; (c) extend community based bed net sales and maintenance programs; and (d)
extend use of pit latrines via subsequent financial support for community water initiatives.
Guidelines for NGO involvement have been developed and are attached as Annex 14.
2.30    The project will finance the training of NGO staff and the provision of supplies
and equipment for public health activities. Support to NGOs will be limited to the
package of essential health services. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that,
formal proposals from NGOs would be a pre-condition for funding and that annual
reviews of all NGO activities under the project would be carried out (para. 5.1 (c)).
Furthermore, for replenishment, annual reviews of District level activities will be
conducted to assess the essential health package coverage in pilot and demonstration
districts. District collaboration and financial support of NGOs will be reviewed if
required.
2.31    Encouraging the development of private health units. The private sector
(including the NGOs) is already a major provider of health services in the country. Still,
there is room for expansion, particularly in underserved areas as defined by local district
officials, including the DMO. This project will encourage private investment in the health
sector. The project will finance a study to review existing regulations, procedures and
statutes to eliminate entry barriers for the private sector and to establish minimum
standards. In addition, US$ 500,000 will be provided for the purchase of equipment for
privately established units in underserved areas meeting MOH building and construction
standards, and where, if electricity and water is required for the use of the equipment, it
must meet minimum standards of quality and availability. Underserved areas will be
identified by the MOH and agreed with IDA. A maximum of US$ 25,000 per unit will be
available to assure greater equity throughout the country during the project. During



17
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, the provision of equipment from a pre-
approved list to private health units be limited to those in underserved areas and at a cost
not exceeding US$ 25,000 per health unit (para. 5.1 (d)).
232    Testing greater autonomy for Government health units through Self-
Governing Trusts and similar mechanisms. The benefit of increasing the managerial
autonomy of health units is that decisions on resource allocation can be made locally.
Hence, services will be more responsive to local concerns and needs. Government has
already taken steps to shift the managerial responsibility from the center to localities by
forming health unit management committees. The project will support this new policy by
training local management committees to have greater control over their resources and
activities and by providing appropriate equipment and supplies. Mulago Hospital in
Kampala and 3 other hospitals will be the first to test the concept of Self-Governing
Trusts. The Government also proposes to involve NGO units, with good track record, in
the supervision of nearby Government health units and community based activities. The
project will finance the costs of this supervision upon the presentation of a management
development plan for the respective government health unit with a set of monitorable
indicators at least focusing on financial sustainability and service use. Based on the
experience gained and modifications made, the concept will be replicated to other health
units. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, only NGO units with
satisfactory management capabilities be contracted to supervise nearby Government health
units and community based activities and that for each such contract a management
development plan for the Government health unit with a set of monitorable indicators be
prepared focusing on financing sustainability and service use (para. 5.1 (e)).
2.33    Measures to improve the effectiveness of training in Government
institutions. Government training institutions face chronic problems with underfunding
leading to low salary levels and dilapidated buildings. They also lack trained tutors,
teaching materials and equipment, and their curricula are outdated. Excessive central
control has also dampened any local initiatives to improve the quality of the training
institutions. In addition, there are high entry qualification requirements which prevent
capable candidates from receiving training and which inhibit the hiring of NGO trained
staff in Government. The entry requirements need to be revised and recognition
arrangements established.
2.34    The project will support the following measures:
(a)   testing mechanisms for improving staff motivation by giving managers of
the training institutions the authority to pay staff incentives. Different
management and funding models will be tested starting with the nursing
schools in Kabale ( 150 student capacity) and Lira (I 50 students), and the
laboratory assistant school in Jinja (50 students),
(b)    charging fees to students (with an initial minimum charge to cover food and
living expenses) though fellowships would be provided to no more than
50% of students based on need,



18
(c)    rehabilitate and equip training schools where recurrent funding is being
enhanced. This quality improvement measure will increase the acceptance
of student charges and improve the effectiveness of the training provided,
(d)    curricula reform (with emphasis on primary health care and public health,
including a review of entry requirements and career paths); and
(e)    delegating the responsibility for training to the district level.
2.35    Recurrent funding from the project for the training institutions would be on a
declining basis over the implementation period with the Government providing rising
amounts of matching funds. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that, all
training institutions supported through the Project would be given administrative and
financial autonomy (except for the policy on admissions, which shall be retained by
MOH), and ensure that, while the training institutions shall continue to be accountable to
MOH for all technical matters, MOH will provide them with funding for a period of at
least five years (para. S. l (f)).
2.36    Contracting out services and supplies. There is increasing evidence that the
Ministry of Health cannot (and should not) provide all services needed by the health
sector. It is not cost effective in many instances to do so. The MOH is committed to
adopt the most cost-effective ways to obtain optimal value for money. The project will
support the following activities.
(a)    A study will be carried out to identify areas for hospitals to contract out
services, such as catering, cleaning and gardening,
(b)    Districts will be encouraged to contract out in-service training to capable
NGOs,
(c)    Districts will be encouraged to contract out the management and
supervision of health units to NGOs and/or private providers;
(d)    A new training course for health information clerks will be contracted out
to private training institutions;
(e)    In Kamuli and Kampala districts, the Government will experiment
contracting out with district hospitals and health centers to NGOs, and
(f)    A study will be carried out to determine whether contracting out blood
transfusion services is feasible.
In conducting these assessments, international experience will be incorporated from other
countries where the long term impacts of contracting out is available. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, the studies and contracting out of services be



19
completed no later than the end of the first year of the project and that the findings,
together with a plan for implementation of the recommendations, be submitted to IDA for
review and comment (para. 5.1 (g)).
2.37    Establishing new funding mechanisms. A major constraint to health sector
development is the serious underfunding of the health sector and the inability of the
Government to restore adequate funding levels in the short term (Annex 7). It also shows
the limited coverage of existing services due to the same constraints. Communities have
recognized this problem and have developed ways of raising funds for health services,
including the construction and rehabilitation of facilities, the introduction of user charges
and innovative schemes such as health cards. Unfortunately, these community initiatives
are limited in scope, they are in selected areas and they have had little impact on health
care financing. ODA is currently carrying out a study to develop financing options
focusing on insurance and pre-payment schemes and on exemption mechanisms for the
poor (e.g. vouchers). In the meantime, the Government is preparing guidelines on user fee
levels, their collection and reinvestment. After IDA's review of the guidelines, the project
would fund the implementation of those recommendations. The following activities would
be supported: training of health management committees and health unit staff on their
roles and responsibilities in proper revenue collection and management; and provision of
equipment and supplies, e.g. safes, receipt books for the proper management of revenues.
A review and dissemination of experiences of different financing systems and exchange of
ideas between communities through inter and intra district workshops will be supported.
Funds will also be set aside for the development and testing of new financing initiatives as
well as testing of exemption mechanisms for those unable to pay for services.
2.38    Reviewing and updating relevant statutes and regulations governing the
health sector. With the enactment by Parliament in September 1993 of the Local
Government Statute, several central government functions/powers have been transferred
to local authorities. As a result, several of the existing statutes/regulations need to be
revised and updated to operationalize the decentralization and re-orientation of health
policies. The project will support the process of updating Acts and Regulations.
Workshops will be held to discuss the proposed changes in legislation, licensing
regulations and personnel matters.
2.39    Strengthening the Public Health Directorate of the NRA. The National
Resistance Army (NRA) is one of the largest organized bodies that can easily be reached
with public health messages. The existence of extended families would mean that more
people can be reached through the NRA. Indeed the NRA received substantial support
under the First Health Project to strengthen health education services. This project will
continue to support the NRA's commitment to integrate health education into all its health
services and to build up its public health capacity further.



20
Part D. Restructuring and Capacity Building for the Ministry of Health (US$ 8.0
million)
2.40    With the introduction of the Government's decentralization policy, the roles and
functions of the Ministry of Health have changed from direct management of services to
policy formulation, planning, central training, setting standards, inspection, monitoring of
activities and donor coordination. The role of the MOHi is expected to evolve from being
primarily a "Ministry of Hospitals" to being primarily a "Ministry of Health Policy".
Accordingly, there is need to restructure and strengthen the Ministry to carry out these
new responsibilities. Simultaneously, there is need to develop the capacity for
decentralized health service delivery at district and lower levels. For the DHSP in
particular, because of its emphasis on decentralized delivery of the essential package of
health services, building the institutional capacity at district and central levels is essential.
2.41    Recent assessments of the MOH have identified the ministry's present
organization and management as key constraints to decentralized service delivery. The
Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) report for restructuring the MOH (September
1993; see Annex 5 for details), and the report of the Joint Task Force on Decentralization
of Health Services (July 1993) provide detailed assessments of the implications of the
Government's decentralization policy on the role, functions, organization and management
of health services at central MOH and district levels. Based on these reports, the DHSP's
capacity building component would seek to ensure that the restructured MOH would be
re-oriented toward integrated service delivery of the essential package at the district level
(instead of maintaining its present emphasis on centrally-managed vertical programs and
curative services).
2.42    The project will help strengthen the proposed Health Planning and Inspection
Department through the provision of funds for development of planning and management
systems, studies, study tours, training, short term technical assistance, selective
computerization for budgeting, accounting, and health information systems, and
introduction of a Quality Assurance (QA) program in the MOH. In addition, since the
MOH is presently located in Entebbe in scattered buildings -- and this leads to
considerable internal inefficiency, as well as lack of coordination with other ministries,
most of which are in Kampala -- the project would support the movement of the MOH to
Kampala through the rehabilitation, furnishing and equipping of existing buildings. New
construction is not envisaged.
2.43    It is expected that the MOH and MPS would agree in the next few months on
the measures to be taken for implementing the CSRP recommendations over the next 1-2
years. For implementing the capacity building component at district and central levels, the
project proposes a high-level Implementation Committee chaired by the Permanent
Secretary, Ministry of Health, and including representatives from the ministries of Public
Service, Local Government (Decentralization Secretariat), Finance and Economic
Planning, and (a small number of selected) local authorities.



21
2.44    MOH would formulate and implement two Action Plans during the next 2-3
years: one for Health Services Decentralization; and the other for Restructuring the
Ministry of Health. These action plans would include: creating a stronger but smaller
central MOH; suitably streamlining the organization structure and staffing in order to
improve policy making, planning, and district-level and technical support; and
strengthening the management systems for budgeting, accounting, information systems
and manpower utilization in the context of decentralized implementation of health services
delivery. MOH has established a high level Implementation Committee for effecting
management and organizational reforms. An implementation plan for management and
organizational reforms for the first year of the project has been submitted.
2.45    The proposed Implementation Committee, assisted by staff of the Health
Planning Department, and the MOH's Management Advisor, are reviewing the CSRP
report with the MPS, and are expected to soon prioritize the various recommendations of
the CSRP report, and identify those that could be implemented immediately and those that
require a medium-term (1-2 years) time frame. Once agreement has been reached between
MOH and MNPS, responsibilities would be assigned to senior/functional managers of MOH
for implementing various recommendations. In doing this, reform of the personnel,
accounting, budgeting and information systems would be given high priority, both at the
central and district levels. MOH's Implementation Committee would ensure that, in the
context of decentralized implementation of health services, its activities are closely
coordinated with those of other relevant agencies (such as the MPS, MOLG, MOFEP, the
Decentralization Secretariat and local authorities).
2.46    Also, since some of the CSRP recommendations have significant financial,
personnel and administrative implications, in implementing the Action Plan, the MOH
would collaborate closely with other relevant Ministries and government agencies,
including district-level local authorities, as appropriate. The reform process itself would
be facilitated by staff of the Management Services Department of the MPS (who helped
prepare the CSRP Report), assisted by other consultants, as required. The MOH would
also introduce a systematic program of orientation, education and training geared to
reducing the central staffs natural resistance to restructuring the ministry.
2.47    Thus, the capacity building component recognizes that for the DHSP to meet its
objectives, it is imperative that the GOU successfully implement its phased (nation-wide)
decentralization program, and that the MOH speedily implement its Restructuring
Program along the lines proposed by the CSRP Report. In due course, the MOH and
local administrations would gradually consolidate their respective roles in delivering the
essential health services package. As the MOH's responsibility for curative services,
particularly in tertiary hospitals, is gradually devolved to autonomous Boards or NGOs,
further structural and staffing changes might become necessary in the ministry. The
immediate steps needed to initiate this long-term process of reform are noted in the Action
Plan and Policy Matrix attached to the Letter of Sector Policy (see Annex 3), and would
be monitored closely by IDA during DHSP implementation. The project will support the
service delivery cost as well as the support costs incurred at the district level for
supervision, training, community mobilization, IEC, research and evaluation of service



delivery and incremental recurrent costs. The project would also finance essential
pharmaceuticals, vaccines, supplies (bed nets for TB control) and equipment (valley tanks,
wells, etc. for the water and sanitation component.)
D. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
2.48    The Ministry of Health will be responsible for overall project coordination. The
Permanent Secretary (PS.), MOH will be the Project Director. The existing Project
Coordination Unit for other IDA operations in the health sector will have responsibility for
the Project. It will be headed by a senior Public Health specialist who will be designated
the project coordinator. A project coordinator whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA has been appointed. During negotiations assurances were sought that
the project coordinator be acceptable to IDA during the entire implementation period
(para. 5. I (h)). The PCU will include I project administrator, 3 accountants, I
procurement specialist, I engineer and 3 secretaries. Two vehicles will be provided.
Approximately US$ 250,000 will be allocated for the preparation of a subsequent project
and US$ 50,000 for a project launch workshop. Short-term technical assistance
(preferably local) will be engaged as necessary. A sum of US$ 100,000 is allocated for
this purpose. Since the bulk of the activities of the project will be in the districts, the HPD
includes two district support teams comprising of an implementation management and
primary health care specialists. These teams have been provided with a vehicle each and
will be expected to travel to project districts on a regular basis. These teams will be
further supported by appropriate technical assistance financed by SIDA. Terms of
reference for the teams and the technical assistance will be included in the implementation
manual.
2.49    A Project Steering Committee chaired by the PS., MOH, with representatives
from the MOH and MOLG will be established to act as an advisory body. NGOs and
other interested parties will be invited to participate in the Committee on an ad hoc basis.
The Project Coordinator will be the Secretary to the Steering Committee. The Committee
is expected to meet quarterly. A Project Steering Committee has been established.
2.50    At the district level, the District Medical Officer (DMO) will be responsible for
coordinating and implementing the essential health packages component. Together with
the District Health Team he/she will ensure that the essential package of health services is
appropriate for the district. If changes are necessary, he/she will make a request to the
PCU giving reasons why the packages should be changed. Any request for changes in
essential health packages will be discussed with IDA before decisions are taken. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that, all changes to the essential package of health
services be submitted to IDA for review and comment before implementation (para. 5.1
(i)). The DMO will work closely with the DES and the RCs in the district to enable public
opinion to be taken into account during implementation.
2.51    The implementation of policy reforms will include an annual work plan for
certain key actions to be undertaken. These are detailed in the Action Plan attached to the
Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 3). In addition, the Health Planning and Inspection



23
Departments will be responsible to undertake pilot activities and studies identified under
this component.
2.52    The PS, MOH, will be responsible for the implementation of the capacity
building component for the MOH and district health administration. In consultation with
the high level Implementation Committee for effecting management and organizational
reforms, the PS. will issue necessary guidelines and take appropriate administrative
decisions. The expenditures for this project will be controlled and accounted for by the
PS., MOH. All Government audit and accounting procedures will apply. DMOs will
receive their financial allocations from the PS, MOH and will be accountable to him for
the proper utilization of funds. As is customary, the Director General of Health Services
and other technical staff of the MOH will provide technical backstopping to the DMOs.
Accounting capacity at the district level has been strengthened and performance of district
accounting units will be closely monitored during the pilot phase.
2.53    Status of Project Preparation. The project was prepared by the Government
with assistance from outside consultants. In addition, SIDA has financed three districts in
which pilot activities have begun . The design of the project has been heavily influenced
by the World Development Report 1993. The Government has participated in a number
of workshops and seminars in this regard. A detailed procurement plan has been drawn up
and is included as Annex 10. Pilot activities in 3 districts are ongoing. SIDA has financed
technical assistance in management, implementation and financial management. The
Government has prepared guidelines for financial accounting and procurement at the
district level.
2.54    Implementation Schedule. Project implementation is expected to take five
years starting in early 1995. A condition of effectiveness would be the submission of a
final implementation manual for all project components (para. 5.2 (a)).
Implementation will follow a phased approach from a pilot to a demonstration mode as
envisaged in the project design.
E. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.55    The program monitoring/evaluation activities will seek to determine the impact
and cost effectiveness of the Health programs as well as to draw lessons from the
implementation of programs to improve the management and delivery of all health services
in Uganda. In addition, both the monitoring and evaluation activities will provide
information to the project management during implementation that will help in identifying
necessary adjustments in program design. An operational plan is attached as Annex 9.
Monitoring
2.56    Monitoring during the project is done to: (a) ensure that the project is
progressing as planned; (b) ensure that the funds are directed to the right purposes; and (c)
identify changes in health or other indicators selected during the project activities.



24
2.57    It is important to determine the indicators against which the project is to be
monitored before the implementation starts to ensure that sufficient data is gathered, both
in terms of the baseline to monitor progress against and the determinants of the final
outcome. In the DHSP, the sets of indicators are for assessing progress in performing
project activities and for assessing overall program impact for each of the components.
Due to the complexity and the variety of indicators, the indicators presented must be
regarded as preliminary. The final sets of indicators will have to be carefully chosen
considering the significance that the indicator has in determining the progress/development
made and how possible it will be to collect the data required for defining progress made.
A workshop on monitoring and evaluation was held in Uganda in November 1994. A fully
determined set of project activity and program impact indicators will be developed during
the first six months of the project.
2.58    Delivery of Essential Health Packages at the District Level. The areas to be
covered with suitable health indicators are the different components of the essential health
package, i.e. Malaria Control; MCH/FP/EPI; Water & Sanitation; Nutrition; STI/HIV
Control; Tuberculosis, Common Diseases; and Special Health Problems.
2.59    It is important to recognize that routine monitoring must be done within the
regular reporting system at district level. The pilot activities with a new Health
Management Information System will be used as the main vehicle to monitor
implementation of an essential health services package to cover a larger share of the
population. It will therefore be crucial that the information system proposed is introduced
and made to function in the capacity building program, and including information about
essential health service delivery from private providers. Other more in depth analyses of
impact of health indicators will have to be done on a basis of sentinel surveys or other
methods of gathering information.
2.60    Thirdly, it is important to determine both the baseline and the continuous
development of the annual cost and financing of the different health packages in the
different districts. Such assessments will include health services provided by all providers
-- private and public, and facility and community based. This requires special health care
expenditure surveys for each district, both as part of the baseline studies and as part of the
evaluation of the districts.
2 61    District Capacity Building. The activities under district capacity building aim
at establishing well-functioning management systems and management teams in all districts
in the country. The indicators of these activities are therefore not directly related to health
activities. The indicators are instead more defined in terms of acceptable financial reports,
good quarterly reports, good working programs, adequate supplies of essential items, etc.
(Annex 9).
2.62    Progress reporting from districts involved will be done on a quarterly basis
comprising of both financial and performance reporting including changes in health
indicators. Satisfactory progress reports are conditional for continued release of funds.
The precise formats for the progress reporting from districts based on the suggested



2S
indicators will be developed. Within the capacity building for district health administration
component (Part C, pp 15-19), there are nine district project activities identified.
Examples of these include supporting NGOs and private health units in providing essential
health services, establishing self-governing trusts for government health units, and
strengthening the public health directorate of the NRA. Appropriate evaluation and
assessment studies will be designed and implemented in accordance with the
implementation manual. Preliminary reviews of all project components will be conducted
in time for inclusion in the project's mid-term evaluation.
2.63     Capacity Building at National Level. The indicators at National level will be
similar to the indicators for assessing management on district level (Annex 9).
Base Line Studies
2.64     To give a correct picture of the progress of the project, it is necessary to
determine the initial status of the different key issues of the different components.
2.65     For pilot and demonstration districts involved in implementing the essential
health packages:
(a)    the health status and disease burden indicators,
(b)    expenditure on the different health packages, including by private
providers; and
(c)    for all districts prior to obtaining project capacity building assistance, a
managerial capacity assessment will be coordinated covering all the
indicators.
Evaluation of Pilot Activities
2.66     An evaluation of all pilot activities related to this project will be conducted
during the initial I year trial period. The evaluation of the pilot activities aim at providing
information about: (a) costs of the essential health package relative to initial plans; (b)
health service implementation relative to district health plans; (c) the most cost-effective
interventions being implemented, and (d) project impact on health status indicators.
2.67     The evaluation of the pilot phase will be undertaken in stages. The first stage
will be a design stage in which a TOR for the evaluation will be defined. In the second
stage the actual evaluation will be carried out. A third stage would include any
supplementary evaluations, in light of earlier findings. The evaluation will rely on
information from routine reporting, original base line studies, or on special studies and
surveys developed for that purpose.
Evaluation/Research on Different Aspects of the Project
2.68     The DHSP is a project with new approaches, especially concerning the delivery
of essential health packages, and the close monitoring of the capacity building project
component. Documentation of decentralization of health services, including assessment of



26
improved functioning of health services is relatively limited as is documentation of the
positive effects of a comprehensive basic health packages approach. Thus, in depth
studies with a health systems research approach are necessary to establish lessons learned
for the design of other projects with the same purpose. The following potential areas of
research or in depth studies were identified by the appraisal team:
*  Cost and impact of essential health packages,
* Testing alternative approaches for health impact assessment, including community
level surveys for assessing health impact cost effectively;
* Assessments of cost recovery schemes; and
* Other studies defined under each component.
2.69    The above studies may be financed by the project or by contributions from
different agencies involved in the project. It is however, important that the studies focus
on issues relevant to the future enhancement of health status and health care delivery in
Uganda. External institutions may be contracted to carry out evaluations ordered by the
project, in collaboration with local authority and experts. The project will maintain close
contact with all studies through progress reports and by discussions with principal
investigators at least twice a year (for longer studies).
Program Reviews
2.70    Implementation reviews of the project will take place every six months based on
an implementation report from the project. Every second review will serve as an annual
program evaluation which will occur in Uganda. Two months before the mid-term review,
the Government will submit a comprehensive progress report to IDA. At the mid-term
review on or around September 1997, the need to fine tune or restructure the project
design will be based on the data collected on the given indicators and on the progress
reports given to the PCU from the districts involved. The final evaluation will include an
assessment of the impact on health indicators, other project indicators, and the project's
cost-effectiveness. The MOH will prepare and make available to IDA its own evaluation
report on the project's execution and initial operation costs and benefits; IDA's and the
Government's performance of their respective obligations under the Credit Agreement,
and the extent to which the purposes of the Credit were achieved. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that a mid-term evaluation of the project be held in 1997 and
that the implementation evaluation report be prepared by the Government within six
months of the project closing date (para. 5.1 (j)).
Role of the PCU
2.71    In the area of monitoring and evaluation the PCU will: (a) compile and
consolidate progress reports to the progress review meetings; (b) approve progress
reports from the districts as a condition for continued flow of funds; (c) review the
indicators used for assessing project progress and impact; (d) initiate evaluation/research
activities connected to the project; (e) monitor research/evaluation activities related to the
project, (f) obtain copies of all assessments, studies and analysis conducted and develop a



27
set of general findings and lessons learned; and (g) approve terms of reference for
designing and implementing evaluation activities.






III. COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND
DISBURSEMENTS
A. COSTS AND FINANCING OF ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICES
3.1     Costing the Essential Health Services Package. The are are two different
methodologies for costing essential health services. The first is to define the resources to
be employed for implementing and sustaining the project's proposed set of project
activities, in this case a set of essential health services. To accomplish this objective it will
also be necessary to develop the infrastructure at the district level to sustain essential
health service delivery. While this costing achieves the objective of knowing what
resources are being utilized to implement agreed project activities, it does not set the
project within the larger context of fully costing and financing all the direct service
delivery and support activities involved in delivering essential health services at the district
level, including those supported by the project. Thus, a second approach to costing
essential health services was developed for use by this project. This alternative method
involves the full costing and financing of the package of essential health services at the
district level irrespective of service provider, and explicitly includes private and mission
providers. This costing endeavor involves an explicit consideration of the demand for
health care services, including essential health care services, taking into consideration the
fact that those who are ill (including other relevant household members in the case of
children and the elderly) have several care provider options from which to chose regarding
where they go for care. The costing approach was initially developed as a computer
model by the Economic Development Institute for use in Zaire but can be utilized in other
contexts by utilizing data from an alternative country setting. This approach was initially
used by the Health Planning Unit of the MOH of Uganda to develop its own project
proposal costing and this work provides the underpinning for the costing approach used in
the development of the costing of the essential health package component of this project.
Following is a table (Table 3.1) reflecting details of the "all inclusive" costs for the
essential health services package; details of the costing methodology are provided in
Annex 2.



29
Table 3.1: Financing the Essential Health Service Package in Three Pilot and Ten
Demonstration Districts in Uganda During a Five Year DHSP Project
Period Beginning in FY1995
(In US$ millions)
Sources of Financing
Essential Health                         Other            Total    Percent
Package Components  Govt. Community Donors   DHSP  Financing of Total
I . Malaria Control   0.22      9.14      0.66      2.75    12.77      6.3
2. MCH/FP/EPI         2.08    21.03       6.59      3.81    33.51     16.4
3. Hygiene, Water
& Sanitation       2.41     24.93     10.71      7.22    45,26    22.2
4. Nutrition           1.24     0.75       1.37     5.84     9.19      4.5
5. STIIHIV Control    0.68      5.60     11,97      0.00     18.24     8.9
6. TB Control         0.00      0.18       1.09     0.00      1.27     0.6
7. Treatment of
Common Diseases   2.86    52.14        9.93      0.29    65.23     32.0
8. Special Health
Problems           0.21      1.60      1.33      0.05     3.20      1.6
Total                 9.7    115.36      43.65     19.96   188.67    92.4
Notes: Expenditures Equal $11.50 per person per year.
B. COSTS OF THE DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
3.2     The conventional approach to project costing has been used for the cost tables,
financing and procurement sections. The total cost of the project is Ush. 74.4 billion or
US$ 75. 1 million equivalent. Base costs are estimated at US$ 66.3 million equivalent
(87%) and contingencies at US$ 8.8 equivalent (13%). Foreign exchange costs are
estimated at US$ 38.9 million or 52% oftotal project costs, Taxes and duties are
negligible. All costs are based on June 1994 prices. Project costs are summarized by
component in Table 3.2; details are in Annex 1.



Table 3.2: Components Project Cost Summary
(Local Million)                                       (USS '000)
%     % Total                                       %     % Total
Foreign   Base                                      Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange Costs    Local         Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
1. PILOT ACTIVITIES                                                     2,650.8     4,613.6     7,2644       64       11     2,718.8    4,731.9    7,450.6        64      11
2. DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES                                              6,467.2    9,934.6    16,401 8      61       25     6,633.0    10,189 3    16,822.4      61      25
3. CAPACITY BUILDING FOR DISTRICT HEALTH ADMINISTRATIONS                17,086.7    14,124.4   31,211 0      45       48    17,524.8   14,486.5   32,011 3        45      48
4. RESTRUCTURING& CAPACITY BUILDING FOR THE MIN. OF HEALTH               3,315 4    3,609.1     6,924.5      52       11     3,400.4    3,701.7     7,102.1       52      11
5. MONITORING & EVALUATION                                                413 6       657.7    1,071 3       61        2       424.2      674.5      1,098.7      61       2
6. PROJECT ORGANIZATION & MANAGEMENT                                      658.0     1,096.1     1,754.1      62        3       674 9     1,124 2     1,799 1      62       3
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                      30,591.6    34,035.4   64,627.1       53      100    31,376.0    34,908 1    66,284 2      53     100
Physical Contingencies                                                    350 3     1,545 0     1,895 3      82        3       359.3     1,584.7    1,943 9       82       3
Price Contingencies                                                      5,2240     2,6999      7,923 9      34       12     4,473.3     2,381 7    6,8550        35      10
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                       36,166.0    38,280.4   74,446.3       51      115    36,208.6   38,874.5   75,083.1        52     113



3'
3.3        Project costs by expenditure category are shown in Table 3.3. Civil works
account for 17% of base costs, equipment and vehicles for 25%, medical supplies for 9%,
local training for 19%, technical assistance, research/studies and
monitoring/evaluation/supervision for 16%; the remaining 14% are for recurrent
expenditures.
Table 3.3: Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
UGANDA
DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES PILOT & DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(Local Million)                                       (USS '000)
%     % Total                                       %      % Total
Foreign   Base                                      Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign      Total   Exchange  Costs    Local        Foreign     Total   Exchange Costs
L Investment Costs
A.CMI Works                   2,095.4    8,885.1   10,980.6        81       17     2,149.2    9,113.0   11,262.1        81       17
8. Equipment                  2,815.1   11,936.7   14 751.8        81       23     2,887.3   12,2427    15,130.0        81      23
C. Materials                    177.7      125.6       303.2       41        -       182.2      128.8      311.0        41        -
D. Vehicles                         -    1,193.7    1,193.7       100        2           -    1,224.4    1,224.4       100       2
E. Medical Supplies             531.6    5,071.4    5,603.0        91        9      545.2    5,201.5    5,746.7         91       9
F. Furniture                     70.5       74.7       145.2       51        -        72.3       76.7       149.0       51
G. Local Training            12,161.7           -   12,161.7         -      19    12,473.6          -   12,473.6          -      19
I. Technical Assistance-                   802.1       802.1      100        1           -      822.7      822.7       100        1
J. Research & Studies           592.2    2,511.1    3,103.3        81        5       607.4    2,575.4    3,182.8        81        5
KS Monitorlng & Evaluation    1,149.8    1,828.3    2,978.1        61        5     1,179.3    1,875.2    3,054.5        61       5
L. Supervision                3,478.0           -    3,478.0         -       5     3,567.2          -    3,567.2          -       5
Total Investment Costs           23,072.0   32,428.8   55,500.8        58       86    23,663.6   33,260.3   56,923.9        58      86
N. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                   2,820.0           -    2,820.0         -       4     2,892.3          -    2,892.3          -      4
C. Equipment O & M            1,357.0      297.3    1,654.3        18        3     1,391.8      305 0     1,696.7       18        3
0. Vehicles 0 & M               274.5       72.7       347.2       21        1       281.5       74.6      356.1        21        1
E. Building 0 & M             2,457.2      588.9    3,046.1        19        5     2,520.2      604.0    3,124.2        19       5
F. Supplies                     611.0      647.7    1,258.7        51        2      626.7       664.3    1,291.0        51       2
TotalRecurrentCosts               7.5196      1,606.7    9,126.3       18       14     7,712.4    1,647.9    9,360.3        18      14
Total BASELINE COSTS              30,591.6   34,035.4   64,627.1        53     100    31,376.0   34,908.1   66,284.2        53      100
Physical Contingencies          350.3    1,545.0    1,895.3        82        3      359.3    1,584.7    1,943.9         82       3
PriceContingencies            5,224.0    2,6999      7,923.9       34       12     4,473.3    2,381.7    6,855.0        35      10
Total PROJECT COSTS               36,166.0   38,280.4   74,446.3        51     115    36,208.6   38,874.5   75,083.1        52      113
3.4        Sources of Cost Estimates. All costs are estimates and subject to change. The
costs for the package of essential health services is based on the methodology outlined in
Annex 2. Pharmaceutical costs were estimated from the Uganda Government NMS most
recent price list from the essential Drugs Program, and from WHO for drugs not currently
in use in Uganda. Local training and service costs, and operational and maintenance
expenses are based on current actual MOH costs.



32
3.5     Costs Contingencies and Exchange Rate. The total costs include an
allowance of US$ 8.8 million equivalent for contingencies which have been estimated
using Bank projections of international and domestic inflation. The exchange rate used for
1994 is Ush. 940.0 = US$ 1. The nominal exchange rate is assumed to adjust during the
life of the project so as to maintain a constant real exchange rate, given projected inflation
differentials.
3.6     Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs of US$ 8.8 million are
calculated on the following bases: (a) civil works 80%; (b) equipment 80%; (c) vehicles
1 00%; (d) medical supplies 90%, (e) furniture 50%; (f) technical assistance 100%, (g)
research and studies 50%, (h) monitoring and evaluation 50%, (i) equipment/vehicles/
building operation and maintenance 20%, and (j) supplies 50%.
3.7     Sustainability. As set out in the Letter of Sector Policy (Annex 3), and in
Annex 7 on Health Expenditures and Financing, it is expected that there will be increases
in the real value of (a) Treasury resources flowing to the health sector, (b) user charges;
and (c) donor financing, reflecting the utilization of more rapid disbursement methods.
The Government will provide an annual report on sectoral expenditures and financing, no
later than November I each year, beginning in 1995. District level reports on expenditures
and financing would also be produced annually by December 31 each year, beginning in
1995. These will be reviewed by IDA and discussed between the IDA staff and the
Government, with the objective of ensuring that domestic resources mobilization efforts
do not lag. Increased cost recovery for the less cost-effective health services will enable a
greater share of Treasury funding for the health sector to be devoted to the most cost-
effective ("essential") health services. There is no commitment to having lower donor
funding over the medium term, either in absolute levels, or as a share of health financing,
because such a commitment would be inconsistent with the objective of providing the
package of essential health services to the Ugandan population. Over the long term,
improved health arising from increased provision of essential health services will
contribute to productivity. The capacity building component will strengthen the district
level administration structures to deliver decentralized health services. New management
systems for financial management, procurement and monitoring will be established, both at
district and central levels. These activities will complement the ongoing capacity building
program of the Ministries of Local Government and the Decentralized Secretariat. By
project completion, it is expected that Uganda's health system would be much more
decentralized and responsive to local needs, and would thus be more sustainable over the
long term.
Financing
3.8     The total project cost of US$ 75. 1 million equivalent will be financed as follows:
a proposed IDA Credit of US$ 45.0 million would cover 60% of total project cost. Co-
financing contributions are anticipated from: SIDA (US$ 7.0 million equivalent);
DANIDA (US$ 5.0 million equivalent); KfW (US$ 9.0 million equivalent); and ODA
(US$ 2.2 million equivalent). The Government would finance from its annual budget the



33
remaining costs of Ush. 6.8 billion (US$ 6.9 million). To ensure that adequate counterpart
funds will be available for the nationwide components, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that: (a) the annual work programs be prepared at the same time as the
preparation of the annual national budget; (b) relevant line items be included in the
national budget aimed at providing adequate counterpart funding each year; and (c) the
Government produce, on an annual basis, evidence that resources thus allocated in the
previous year's budget were used for the intended purpose (para. 5. 1 (k)).
Table 3.4: Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Expenditure        IDA    SIDA    KfW       ODA   DANIDA   Govt.   Total
Category
Civil Works            12.2      1.0                                          13.2
Equipment              12.0              5.1                                  17.1
Materials               0.3                                                    0.3
Vehicles                         1.4                                           1.4
Medical Supplies        3.0              3.2                                  6.2
Furniture               0.2                                                   0.2
Local Training          6.0     4.6               2.2                 1.4    14.2
Technical Assistance    0.5              0.4                                  0.9
Research/Studies        1.0                               2.5                 3.5
Monitoring/Evaluation   3.0              0.3              0.1                 3.4
Supervision             1.7                               2.4                 4.1
Recurrent Costs         5.1                                           5.5    10.6
Total                  45.0     7.0      9.0      2.2     5.0         6.9    75.1
C. PROCUREMENT
3.9     Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.6. Items financed by IDA
will be procured as discrete procurements according to IBRD guidelines as outlined in the
paras. below. All ICBs for Goods and Works and internationally recruited consultants will
follow Bank's Standard Bidding and Contract documents. Details of all procurement
under this project are provided in Annex 10. Standard bidding documents for key
procurement packages have been prepared and reviewed by IDA. Estimated time periods
for processing of international competitive bidding tender will be no more than 180 days.
3.10    Civil Works (US$ 12.2 million). The renovation of a MOH headquarters
building which is estimated to cost approximately US$ 2.0 million will be procured
through ICB procedures. District and community level civil works are small and
scattered, each estimated to cost less than US$ 500,000 aggregating not more than US$
10.2 million and therefore unlikely to attract ICB competition. These will be tendered
through LCB procedures.



34
3.11    Equipment, Materials, Furniture (US$ 12.5 million). Equipment, materials
and furniture would be grouped together wherever possible. Contracts in excess of US$
0.2 million would be awarded through ICB according to IBRD guidelines. Procurement
below this amount would be carried out through local competitive bidding (LCB)
acceptable to IDA. LCB procurement will not exceed US$ 1.0 million and will apply to
items for which there is adequate competition. Procurement below US$ 50,000 would be
procured through international or local shopping requiring three quotations in accordance
with IBRD guidelines up to a total of no more than US$ 0.2 million.
3.12    Medical Supplies/Drugs (US $3.30 million) will be procured according to
IBRD guidelines. Items will be grouped wherever possible and procured on a semi-annual
basis based on projected requirements agreed to by IDA. Should unforeseen needs or
emergencies arise, international shopping according to IBRD guidelines will be used for
goods valued at no more than US$ 50,000 per package, up to a total of no more than US$
0.5 million.
3.13    Local Training (US$ 6.0 million). Training needs have been identified for the
national and district level. Annual work plans will include the numbers of staff to be
trained, type of curriculum and method of selection of training institutions, cost estimates,
etc. and will be cleared with the Bank. NGO and private consultants will be encouraged
to bid for training consultancies.
3.14    Technical Assistance, Research/Studies,
Monitoring/Evaluation/Supervision (US$ 5.2 million). International and local
consultants services would be procured according to the IBRD guidelines on the Use of
Consultants. Consultants contracts estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 for firms and
US$ 50,000 for individuals do not require prior Bank approval. All consultant terms of
reference, qualifications, experience and conditions of employment will be satisfactory to
IDA and subject to review before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and signed.
Any proposals for single source selection of consultant will be examined by the Bank.
Details of the technical assistance requirements are contained in Annex 13. Long term
technical assistance is also being provided by SIDA but financed outside the project.



35
Table 3.5: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
(IDA contributions are shown in brackets)
Project Element          ICB         LCB         Other        NBFa          Total
CIVIL WORKS:
Civil Works                 2.0          11.2                                  13.2
(2.0)       (10.2)                                (12.2)
GOODS.
Equipment/Materials/       11.3           1.0         0.2          5 lb        17.6
Furniture                 (11.3)         (1.0)        (0.2)       (0. )       (12.5)
Vehicles                                                           1.4          1.4
(0.0)        (0.0)
Medical                     2.5           0.0         0.5          3.2          6.2
Supplies/Drugs             (2.5)         (0.0)        (0.5)       (0.0)        (3.0)
CONSULTANCIES:
Local Training                                        6.0          8.2         14.2
(6.0)       (0. 0)       (6.0)
Technical Assistance                                  0.5          0.4          0.9
(0.5)       (0.0)        (0.5)
Research/Studies                                       1.0         2.5          3.5
(1.0)       (0.0)        (1.0)
Monitoring/Evaluation                                 3.0          0.4          3.4
(3.0)       (0.0)        (3.0)
Supervision                                            1.7         2.4          4.1
(1.7)       (0.0)        (1.7)
MISCELLANEOUS
Recurrent Costs                                       5.1          5.5         10.6
(5.1)       (0.0)        (5.1)
Total                      15.8          12.2        18.0         29.1         75.1
(15.8)       (11.2)       (18.0)       (0.0)       (45.0)
a)     NBF: Not Bank Financed.
b)     Co-financed in parallel by KfW, SIDA, ODA and DANIDA.
3.15     Procurement Review Thresholds. All contracts for Goods and Works
equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more will be submitted to the IDA for prior review of



36
bidding documentation, award recommendations, etc., in accordance with IBRD
guidelines. Procurement below this threshold will be subject to selective post review by
IDA. Therefore the Borrower is required to maintain proper records for easy access by
the IDA.
Table 3.6: Allocation and Disbursements of the IDA Credit
(US$ million)
Disbursement Category    IDA Allocation      % of Expenditures to be Financed
1. (a) Civil Works               2.2         100% of foreign expenditures;
(b) Civil Works              10.0         80% of local expenditures.
2. Equipment, Materials,                     100% of foreign expenditures;
Furniture                                 100% of ex-factory local expenditures;
(a)                           3.5         90% of local expenditures for other
(b)                           7.0        items procured locally.
(c)                           1.0
3. Medical Supplies/                         100% of all expenditures.
Drugs
(a)                           0.8
(b)                           1.5
(c)                           0.2
4. Local Training                5.0         90% of all expenditures.
5. Technical Assistance,         4.5         100% of foreign expenditures and
Consultants' Services,                    90% of local expenditures.
Research/Monitoring/
Studies
6. Recurrent Costs               4.8         80%.
7. Unallocated                   4.5
Total                        45.0
D. DISBURSEMENT AND SPECIAL ACCOUNTS
3.16    The IDA Credit will be disbursed over a period of 8 years, from FY1996-
FY2003, with procurement and disbursements completed by June 30, 2002 (completion
date) and December 31, 2002 (closing date) respectively. TIhe disbursement estimates are
based on the standard disbursement profile (June 30,1994) for Uganda (all sectors). The
proposed allocation of the credit and an estimated quarterly schedule are shown in Annex



37
12. Under DHSP disbursement procedures would be streamlined and decentralized to the
various Districts. Funds would be advanced to the Districts on a quarterly basis based on
the Annual Work Program and Funding Requirement (AWP and FR). Each year the
Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in MOH would prepare (and agree with donors) an
AWP and FR indicating activities and location (naming districts) where each activity will
take place with appropriate yardsticks to measure progress. To ensure that the advanced
funds are only used for intended purposes, comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
arrangements would be put in place after consultation with donors.
3.17    To facilitate project implementation the MOH would prepare and agree with all
Donors the AWP and FR. Each donor would contribute their individual share of the
Special Account Advance into a separate Central Special Account established per donor
by the PCU, in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. PCU will also open a Special
Account for IDA with the same or any other commercial bank, acceptable to IDA for
which IDA would make available an initial deposit of US$ 1.5 million, covering 4 months
of project expenditures. The PCU will be free to decentralize the funds from the central
special accounts to the district levels based on the funding needs identified for each such
location in the AWP and FR. Funds identified for the headquarters (PCU) activities would
be retained in the central special account. Disbursements would be made against standard
IDA documentation with the following exceptions, for which certified statements of
expenditures (SOEs) would be used: (i) contracts for goods and civil works costing less
than US$ 200,000 equivalent; (ii) all local training; (iii) performance and field allowances;
and (iv) recurrent operating expenditures. All SOE documentation will be stored in a
specified place in the PCU and will be subject to review by supervision mission and annual
audits.
3. 18    Each district level implementing unit would open a separate bank account into
which an advance would be transferred from any of the Donor or IDA central special
accounts. Although the funds in the central special accounts are kept separately, funds in
accounts at the district level could be combined with IDA, Donor, and GOU funds. The
PCU would be responsible for submitting regular replenishment applications with
appropriate supporting documents for expenditures under the Program. Such applications
must be submitted at least once every three months. Disbursement would be made against
simplified statements of expenditures, which would show the summary for expenditures by
categories collected from the various decentralized locations as well as from the records of
expenses incurred at the center. The PCU of MOH would follow up regularly with each
implementation unit to ensure that their statements of expenditures are submitted within
the three month period. No further advances would be made from the central special
account to delinquent locations until proper accounting has been received from them.
E. AUDITING
3.19    The MOH would maintain accounts and records for Project activities, including
SOE's and the Special Accounts in accordance with sound accounting practices.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would have the



38
records and accounts of the Project, including those for the Special Accounts and SOE's,
audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it would
submit the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year, with a
separate opinion by the auditors on SOE's. Similarly, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the MOH would have its accounts and those accounts of the various
Districts, including SOE's, audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable
to IDA and submit audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year
with a separate opinion by the auditors on SOE's (para. 5.1 (1)).






IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.1     Benefits. The objective of the District Health Services Project is to test and
implement, at the district level, sustainable models for delivery of essential health services
to district populations. The project will help reduce the burden of disease and thus
improve the health status of the populations in the project districts through the
implementation of sectoral policy, expenditure and institutional reforms and through the
introduction of the concept of essential public health and clinical packages. It will also
serve as a vital pilot project for effective decentralization, thus contributing through an
evolving learning exercise, to institution and capacity building, and overall sustainability.
4.2     By the end of the project, an ambitious policy reform agenda would have been
substantially implemented throughout the country; 10 districts would have received
support for delivering, on a sustainable basis, an essential package of health services; and
the capacity of the central MOH to develop and implement policy would have been greatly
strengthened. The policy reforms, outlined in the Letter of Sector Policy, would have a
substantial impact on the effectiveness and efficiency of Government health service
delivery. They would encourage district health administrations to collect user charges,
contract with NGOs for services, etc. is a major departure from the status quo, and will
help improve access to health services and the utilization of Government health facilities.
4.3     The project will help reallocate Government expenditure toward essential public
health and preventive services; improving the sustainability of health services through cost
recovery and insurance schemes; improving the efficiency of services through institutional
autonomy such as self-governing Trusts, and experimentation with contracting out and
voucher schemes. In addition, for a district to receive major financing from the Credit, the
districts and MOH would have institutionalized the practice of developing annual
implementation plans that address national and district health priorities. Resource
mobilization and resource utilization will have been monitored to ensure that there is slow
but steady movement in the direction of long-term sustainability.
4.4     Risks. One risk is the extent to which conservative elements in the health sector
and the MOH can slow or block progress. For the DHSP to be effectively implemented, it
is imperative that the GOU simultaneously and successfully implement its phased (nation-
wide) Decentralization Program and that the MOH speedily implement its Restructuring
Program along the lines proposed by the CSRP Report (1993). An Action Plan for
implementing the Health Policy Reform Program, as outlined in the Policy Matrix attached
to the Letter of Sector Policy (LSP), includes some of the key measures required to be
taken. The MOH has established its top-level Implementation Committee for effecting
these reforms. Similarly, progress on building the district-level capacity for undertaking
the pilot -- DHSP activities in 3 districts has also been slow.
4.5     Recent discussions with government officials, however, indicate a keen interest
and high level of commitment, at the senior-most level of Government, to rapidly move
forward both with the content of the policy reform package and the



40
mechanisms/modalities for implementing it. The policy package (particularly the design of
the essential health services based on the BOD and cost effectiveness studies) and the
policy implementation mechanisms have been developed and will be revised after the pilot
phase. The Government strongly supports reform and there is every expectation that this
process can move forward. It is also expected that a number of measures will be in place
before credit effectiveness thereby reducing the risks significantly.
4.6     Second, the implementation capacity of the MOH and district level institutions
might still prove inadequate despite the reforms to be proposed. The project is seeking
major changes in the way health services are delivered; and implementation will require
use of approaches such as contracting out. There is concern regarding the MOH's limited
capacity to undertake major reforms encompassing health financing, liberalization and
decentralization, all at the same time but willingness to work closely with the local
authorities will be of considerable help. Annual work plans and reviews will enable
modifications to project-design to be made promptly thereby reducing the risks of poor
implementation. Third, it will be difficult to improve the skills and motivation of
undertrained and underpaid civil servants, and undertake project activities through local
administrations that are not familiar with donor procedures and are, in addition, likely to
undergo a difficult transition to decentralization.
4.7     In the decentralized system, the district health administrations will be critically
important not only for implementation, but also for practical policy decisions. It has been
recognized that, once decisions have been taken on the specific design of the decentralized
system, it will be necessary to reorganize MOH. Since the largest component is being
defined as "essential health services in a district", the contributions to financing would be
not only IDA, but also the Treasury, other donor contributions to essential health services,
and user charges. In addition, in project Districts, elements of donor-funded vertical
programs, such as UNICEF's immunization program or the Danish-aided Essential Drugs
program, should be included as part of "essential health services", and therefore as part of
program costs.
4.8      Presently, Government health workers are inadequately compensated. The
Government's structural adjustment program, being supported by SAC II from IDA,
includes Civil Service Reform. The first stage of compensation reform is the monetization
of non-salary benefits such as housing and transport with a view toward making
compensation more transparent and equitable. This will be followed by salary
enhancement. A number of donors pay "top-ups" to health workers. IDA cannot finance
contributions to the salaries of health workers. Salaries are only 29% of the MOH
Recurrent budget, while Medical Stores are 41% of the Recurrent budget.
4 Q)    A related question is the levelness of the "playing field" between Government
and non governmental clinical services. At the present time, Government clinical facilities
are subsidized by the Government while NGO facilities are not. On the other hand, NGO
facilities have institutional autonomy, have been freer to collect revenues, and presumably
can reject non paying patients. This present environment poses a risk for project



41
implementation in that decentralized decision making and accountability are key. The
White Paper on Health Policy reflects more evenness in the policy environment for
Government and NGO services, by encouraging Government facilities to collect revenues
while allowing subsidization of NGO services in some circumstances. This should reduce
the importance of the Government/non government distinction. DHSP is aiming at a
substantial influx of donor aid. Therefore, DHSP will be sensitive to the distribution of
subsidies between Government and NGO services.






V. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1     During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)   only districts whose recurrent budgets have been decentralized by the
central government be included in the project (para. 2.9);
(b)   progress of the demonstration activities, with emphasis on the
administrative and logistical aspects of sustaining service delivery will be
reviewed periodically (at least once a year) and the pace of
expansion/replication in each district will be determined on the basis of
appropriate performance indicators. (para. 2.24);
(c)   formal proposals from NGOs would be a pre-condition for project funding
and that annual reviews of all NGO activities under the project would be
carried out (para. 2.30);
(d)   the provision of equipment from a pre approved list to private health units
be limited to those in underserved areas and at a cost not exceeding US$
25,000 per health unit (para. 2.31);
(e)   only NGO units with satisfactory management capabilities be contracted to
supervise nearby Government health units and community based activities
and that for each such contract a management development plan for the
Government health unit with a set of monitorable indicators be prepared
focusing on financing sustainability and service use (para. 2.32);
(f)   all training institutions supported under the Project would be given
administrative and financial autonomy (except for the policy on admissions,
which shall be retained by MOH), and ensure that, while the training
institutions shall continue to be accountable to MOH for all technical
matters, MOH will provide them with funding for a period of at least five
years (2.35);
(g)   studies and contracting out of services be completed no later than the end
of the first year of the project and that the findings, together with a plan for
implementation of the recommendations, be submitted to IDA for review
and comment (para. 2.36);
(h)   the project coordinator be acceptable to IDA during the entire
implementation period (para. 2.48);
(i)   all changes to the essential package of health services be submitted to IDA
for review and comment before implementation (para. 2.50);



43
(j)    a Mid-Term evaluation of the project be held in 1997 and that the
implementation evaluation report be prepared by the Government within
six months of the project closing date (para. 2.70);
(k)   (i) the annual work programs be prepared at the same time as the
preparation of the annual national budget; (ii) relevant line items be
included in the national budget aimed at providing adequate counterpart
funding each year; and (iii) the Government produce, on an annual basis,
evidence that resources thus allocated in the previous year's budget were
used for the intended purpose (para. 3.8); and
(I)   the Government would have the records and accounts of the Project,
including those for the Special Accounts and SOE's, audited for each fiscal
year by independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and that it would submit
the audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every fiscal year,
with a separate opinion by the auditors on SOE's. Similarly, MOH would
have its accounts and those accounts of the various Districts, including
SOE's, audited for each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA and submit audit reports to IDA within six months of the end of every
fiscal year with a separate opinion by the auditors on SOE's (para. 3.20).
5.2     The following would be a condition of effectiveness:
(a)   the submission of a final implementation manual for all project components
(para. 2.54).
5.3     A condition of disbursement for the demonstration component would be the
successful completion of the pilot phase of the project (para. 2.24).
RECOMMENDATION
5.4     Based on the above assurances obtained during negotiations, the proposed
project will constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$ 45.0 million to the
Government of Uganda for a term of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years, at
standard IDA terms



UGANDA
DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES PILOT & DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ '000)
RESTRUCTURING
CAPACITY        & CAPACITY
BUILDING FOR    BUILDING FOR   MONITORING          PROJECT
PILOT   DEMONSTRATION DISTRICT HEALTH    THE MIN. OF                &        ORGANIZATION
ACTIVITIES    ACTIVITIES    ADMINISTRATIONS         HEALTH       EVALUATION  & MANAGEMENT    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                                           -           11,685.1          1,545.9             -                -   13,231.0
B. Equipment                     4,375.4           9,584.4            2,277.1            871.8             -                -   17,108,7
C. Materials                                             -             194 3             1457                                      340.0
D. Vehicles                            -                 -            1,304.4             56 0             -                -    1,360.4
E. Medical Supplies              1,494.6           3,098.3            1,620.6                -             -                      6,213.5
F. Furniture                           -                 -                 -             165.4             -                -      165.4
G. Local Training                  962.0           1,866.9            9,833.4          1,504.1                           52.8   14,219.3
1. Technical Assistance                -                 -                 -             386.1             -            489.3      875.3
J. Research & Studies              107.9             649.9             717.0           1,978.0             -                -    3,452.8
K Monitoring & Evaluation          161.9             607.9            1,371.2                -       1,209.0                -    3,349.9
L. Supervision                                           -            2,755.1          1,344.1             -                      4,099.2
Total Investment Costs             7,101.8          15,807.5           31,758 1          7,997.2        1,209.0           542.1   64,415.6
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                        854.1           2,477.9                 -                 -             -                -    3,332.0
C. Equipment 0 & M                 107.9             392.2            1,438.4                -                                    1,938 5
D. Vehicles 0 & M                      -                 -             407.1                 -                                     407.1
E. Building 0 & M                  107.9             392 2            3,055.3                -             -                -    3,555.4
F. Supplies                            --                                                    -                        1,434.5    1,434.5
Total Recurrent Costs               1,069.9          3,262.3            4,900.8                -             -          1,434.5   10,667.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                 8,171.7          19,069.8          36,658.9           7,997.2       1,209.0          1,976.6   75,083.1
Taxes
Foreign Exchange                 5,115.3          11,340.7           16,386.9          4,099.7         725.4          1,206.5   38,874.5
NB:  Price  contingencies  are based  on projected  inflation  rate  of  2.2%  for  foreign  costs                                                                 >
and  9.5%  in  1995  and  5.0%  thereafter  for  local  costs.



45                                    Annex 2
Page I of 7
COSTING METHODOLOGY
1.    Introduction to Costing the District Health Services Project in Uganda. The
cost of this proposed project has been estimated utilizing a different methodology than
usually followed. The rationale for developing a different approach is based on two
important reasons. First, for most World Bank projects, estimates of the cost of the
project is developed as if no prior similar activity or service has been in existence and that
the Bank project will finance all of the required costs. In the case of health service
delivery improvements, however, often there is a structure already providing some set of
services, although perhaps inadequately. In this and many other health projects, it is
expected that the existing structure will be used and improved to deliver more efficacious
and sustainable essential health services. In order to accomplish this task, a number of
additional tasks and support services must be operating and functioning well. Thus, the
existing context, including an explicit awareness of how the other health sector financiers
will be collaborating with the World Bank in supporting and sustaining the envisioned
project activities, represents a constructive departure from prior costing exercises.
2.     Second, this project is seeking to incorporate a package of essential health services
into the nexus of health care all providers in the country deliver, not just by government
owned and operated facilities. Thus, the cost of service provision not only includes the
cost of resources used by government providers, but also the cost of resources owned and
operated by private entities involved in the provision of various health services. By
including these costs, demand considerations are implicitly incorporated into the essential
health package costing exercise, since all sources of care provision are included.
3.    In the paragraphs which follow, the alternative methodology for costing this
district health services project (DHSP) for Uganda is developed and the results of the
exercise is presented. It provides a context in which the cost elements financed by the
Bank and collaborating donors are included as a component of the full set of costs
incurred at the district level to provide essential health care services by a number of
alternative providers in Uganda over five years during the mid-1990s.
4.     The approach followed to cost the Uganda DHSP involves the full costing and
financing of the package of essential health services at the district level, irrespective of
service provider and financier, and explicitly includes private and mission providers, and
government as well as community and donor sources of financial support. This costing
endeavor involves an explicit consideration of the demand for health care services,
including essential health care services, taking into consideration the provider options from
which those who are ill may seek care. In addition, this costing exercise distinguishes
between those costs explicitly involved in the direct provision of essential health services
as distinct from supporting their delivery. For example, the cost of managing and
supervising personnel involved in service provision is considered for this analysis as a
supporting rather than a direct service cost. Finally, the costs of operating a national
health service responsible for extending the coverage and improving the quality of



46                                    Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
essential health services throughout a country is assessed separately and included in the
final analysis of the project's costs.
A. COSTING OF THE ESSENTIAL HEALTH PACKAGE AT THE DISTRICT LEVEL
5.     Service Delivery Costs. The service delivery costs included in this project cost
exercise is a summation of the aggregate annual estimate of the resources used during
each year of the life of the project for the three pilot districts in which project activities
will be initiated during the first year of the project and will extend for the remaining four
years of the project. The resources involved in service provision include: a) personnel
(skilled and unskilled), b) estimates of the annual depreciation of building and equipment
in health facilities operated by the district, c) petrol cost for transport and maintaining a
cold chain, d) pharmaceutical costs, e) lab costs, and f) other consumables and supplies
required for direct service provision and record keeping. These cost elements were
derived for this project from the earlier costing work of the Planning Unit of the MOH
(8/17/93 version of Chapter Five of the DHSP project document) and revised during a
project preparation mission in March 1994.
6.    Supportive Services Costs. A number of managerial, skill development and other
supportive services are required to sustain the direct delivery of health services at the
district level. These services include, but are not limited to: supervision of public and
private health facilities, logistical support for preventive and other essential services,
community mobilization, personnel training, planning and budgeting, local IEC strategy
and materials development, building and equipment maintenance, monitoring and
evaluation and operations research support. To provide these important supportive
services, personnel must be hired and trained, options for contracting these activities to
non-governmental entities must be explored, and long term financing plans must be
developed and explained to district level managers and persons responsible for financing
these activities The project has examined the likely costs of these district level supportive
services and has made estimates for each specific essential service. In addition, the cost of
common district level managerial support services have also been costed for this
component
7.     Costs Not Included in The District Package. Since the GOU is in the process of
implementing its decentralization policy, the roles and responsibilities of the central
Ministry of Health visa vie the district level governments is undergoing restructuring. The
central government has the responsibility to ensure that all thirty-nine district level
governments can develop and implement a program of essential health services for the
people of each district Thus, the central government's role will change from a direct
management function of health service delivery to one which provides policy and planning
leadership to the districts and technical support for implementing each essential service
with a reasonable level of quality. The resources required to strengthen these types of
MOH functions and assist the government in restructuring the MOH to deliver this
support has been separately costed and the results of that analysis is incorporated into the
project budgets.



47                                     Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
B. COSTING DISTRICT FACILITY BASED ESSENTIAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES
8.    In an effort to capture the effects of both demand and supply considerations on the
costs of delivering an essential health care package via all possible health care providers
(public and private) in three pilot and ten demonstration districts of Uganda during the life
of this project, the designers assessed various available user friendly computer based
models. The model initially developed for the EDI has many of the features necessary to
conduct this assessmentl. The model was modified by health planners working for the
MOH of Uganda to conform to the special features of district level service provision and
the priorities which the districts have established via the three year planning exercise,
defined nationally by the MOH through The Three Year Health Plan Frame, l993./4 -
1995/6.
9.     Uganda specific information about competitive market forces for various types of
essential health services delivered in rural and urban areas of the country, including prices
and income, as well as distance between alternative providers, population densities, acute
illness incidence, and birth rates was obtained from the planning unit of the MOH to
estimate service coverage and cost, both for public as well as private providers within
typically configured market areas of Uganda. These "typical" market areas were
aggregated into two district level scenarios consistent with specific districts in Uganda
which would be included in the District Health Support Project (DHSP). By developing
these two district scenarios of the cost and financing of delivering essential health services,
an estimate of the cost and financing of these services, irrespective of provider, could be
obtained for the entire set of project districts. The two districts specifically modeled in
this manner was Kabale district, a densely populated southwestern district with about 475
thousand people and one large town of Kabale, and Apac, a northern district with a
slightly smaller population and much less densely populated 2
10.    The specific set of essential health services explicitly considered in this modeling
exercise were facility or provider based services including a) inpatient health care for
typical health problems found in rural areas of Uganda, including normal obstetric care, b)
basic ambulatory care services for common acute and chronic health problems, and c)
preventive health care services such as (i) ante-natal services and family planning, and (ii)
child health, including immunization services. For each health care service considered
within the model framework, it was necessary to input information about the cost
structure, structure of market demand, and the demographic and epidemiological situation
facing each type of government operated health facility.
l     Ricardo Bitran. >1 .$1f!whl )cmwut Afudc! a/ llea/l7 ( are Iinan in I gth Wa/ . Ipplication to
Zaire, (Washingtoni t) C: \VGirid Bank. IL,! TLLh hil Malhials. 1994).
2      The health senrice delivery characteristics of these twvo districts have bcen specified n detail in
the MOH proposal to the World Bank and SIDA for the DHSP project. See the Ministry of Health,
District Health Services project (I)lfSP): A Proposal to the IWorld Bank andl 811.I, (Entebbe, Uganda:
Government of Uganda, May 20, 1994).



Annex 2
48                                Page 4 of 7
11.   To estimate the cost of care, information about: (a) building and equipment cost
and depreciation, (b) labor time inputs, (c) drugs used, and (d) other ancillary costs, i.e.,
laboratory costs used to provide each service were provided by the Health Planning Unit
of the MOH, in part by reviewing earlier drafts of the DHSP project document, and by
assessing other sources of information available to the MOH. Basic demographic
information was available from the 1990 census, and epidemiological information was
available from The Three Year Health Plan Frame, 1993 4 - 1995 '6. The structure of the
market and estimates of prices charged by competing providers for each type of health
facility were developed by the Health Planning Unit of the MOH for facilities in both
Kabale and Apac districts. Once this information was assembled in the model,
simultaneous cost and demand estimates were obtained for each basic scenario district,
and aggregated for the remaining pilot and demonstration districts included in the project.
Finally, given MOH planning unit policy guidance regarding trends in user charges at
government health facilities, and other donor commitments for financing certain types of
health service costs, it was also possible to estimate the financing structure of the essential
health package at the district level, including the resources from the central government
and the DHSP project and assess the financing feasibility of the project3.
C. COSTING OTHER ESSENTIAL HEALTH SERVICE DELIVERY, NOT INCLUDED ABOVE
12.   To extend the health benefits of the essential health care service package beyond
the traditional catchment areas of existing health services operated by public and private
providers, and obtain greater population coverage of the identified essential health services
within the pilot and demonstration districts, project planners explicitly considered various
community based options for extending care to previously non-covered villages. These
options included the use of community based health care workers (CHWS) and traditional
health practitioners, such as traditional birth attendants (TBAs), as well as the political
leadership of sub-districts and villages via the Reconstruction Committee (RC) system.
The cost of mobilizing public opinion about the importance of these essential public health
preventive services, and utilizing these additional types of provider options have been
separately costed for reaching certain targets of coverage for each of the essential services
within the pilot and demonstration districts, after allowing for the already existing facility
based public and private health care system 4. The costing of these additional components
have been developed according to the standard World Bank approach for project
component costing and these costs have been included into the costs of the district
essential health services component of the project. The cost components have included
the direct recurrent cost of specific essential health service provision as well as the
necessary district level supporting costs such as supervision, community mobilization,
health worker training, equipment and building rehabilitation, vehicle and other equipment
3     See Tables I and 2 for the summary tables of the district scenario costing exercise found in the
Project File. These tables are summarized in Annex Tables 2.1 and 2.2.
4     This system includes part and full time private and public health providers, including nurses,
midwives, medical assistants, and pharmacy workers.



49                                   Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
maintenance, IEC, operational research and monitoring and evaluation required to ensure
that the services provided were of high quality, managed well and could be sustained (for
additional details, see background papers available in the Project File).
13.   Annex Table 2.1 shows over the LOP the estimated recurrent cost of the direct
health care provided in the three pilot and ten demonstration districts will amount to about
178 million dollars. During the project, about ten and one half million dollars will be
invested as indicated to strengthen and sustain the delivery of these services. District level
management costs are estimated to be fifteen and a half million during the project as well,
with the total district cost, including support costs, equaling US$ 204.0 million.
D. FINANCING THE DISTRICT LEVEL ESSENTIAL HEALTH PACKAGE
14.   Table 3.1 presents a summary of expected financing of the district level essential
health service financing component of the project. It shows the government financing
about five per cent of the total five year cost, with other donors (including the STI and
HIV/AIDS World Bank project) contributing about 23 percent of the cost. These figures
have been obtained from the Health Planning Unit of the MOH. The DlIISP project itself
is expected to finance about 13 percent of the cost. Primarily through user charges which
have already been implemented in publicly operated health facilities, the community is
expected to finance about 58.4 percent of the total cost of essential health services. This
level of user charge revenue is consistent with the letter of sector policy statements
regarding health sector financing and revenue collections from this source is already wide
spread throughout the country. User charges revenue also includes revenue raised by
private health care providers. It is expected that by the end of the project in FY2002,
private health providers will finance a much larger share of the total cost of essential
health services provision via user charges (73 percent) than will be the case for publicly
operated health facilities about 40 percent (see Annex Table 2.2)



Annex Table 2.1: Summary of Investment and Recurrent Costs of Essential Health package for the Three Pilot and Ten
Demonstration Districts in Uganda Over the Life of the Project, 1995-1999, (thousands of US Dollars).
Maint.                                                            Perccnt
Direct                           Equip &    of Equip,                                                            Direct
Essential Health     Scrvice    Community             Building   Especially             Ops.    Monitoring                             Care
Service         Provision   Mobilization  Training   Rehab.    Transport   IEC    Research    & Eval.       Other       Total
1. Malaria Control                     640.5                33.3                           211.2      323.8                  12,771.3     0.91
11,562.5
2. MCH/FP/IEC          31,901.0                  642.9      221.8               424.7      316.8                             33.507.2      0.95
3  Water&              44,520.4        319.1      105.6                                    105 6      213.5                  45,264.2      0.98
Sanitation
4. Nutrition            7,227.8        105.6     319.1                 1,219.6             105.6      213.5                   9,191.2      0 79
5. STI/HIV             13,341.3                                                 2,979.9    861.1    1,055.9                  18,238.2      0.73   2
6. TB                   1,271.8                                                                                                1,271.8     1.00
7. Treat Common        65,120.5        105.6                                                                                 65,226.1      1.00
Diseases
8. Special Health       3,202.7                                                                                               3,202.7      1.00
Problems
Sub-Total         178,148.0       1,170.8   1,067.6      255.1     1,219.6  3,404.6   1,600.3    1,806.7          0.0   188,672.7      0.94
9. District Health     10,567,7                                                                                   4,903.9     15,471.6     0.68
Team Support
Total                 188,715.7      1,170.8   1,067.6      255.1      1,219.6  3,404.6   1,600.3    1,806.7      4,903.9   204,144.3      0.92
t >
x
0



Table Annex 2.2: Examples of District Level Financing of the Essential Health Package in Uganda by the end of the Project,
FY2000, (thousand of Ugandan Shillings)
Sources of Financing
District             Govt/Tax     Percent       User        Percent       Other       Percent       World        Pcrcent      Total
Revenue     of Total    Charges/      of Total       Intl.      of Total    Bank DHSP      of Total
Community                   Donors                     Project
I . KabaleTotal                   278.5         8.3       L918.0          57.2        768.7         22.93       386.6          11.5      3,351.8
A. Publiclx Operated Senrices      250.5       17.3         593.9         41.1        410.7          28.4        188.3         13.0       1.443.4
a. Ambulatory                   88.5        8.68        371.8         36.4        370.8          36.3        188 3          I .4      1,019.4
Services
b. Inpatient Services          162.0       38.2         222.1         52.3         39.9           9.41         0.()         0.0         424.0
B. Privatelv Operated Services       0.0        0.0       1.324.1         730         331.0          182        157.9          8.71      1.813 0
a. Ambulatorv Senrices           0.0        0.0       1.294.0         72.8        323.5          18 2        157.9          8 8       1.775.4
b. Inpatient Services            0.0        0 0          30.1         80.0           7.5         19.9          0.0          0.(          37.6
C. District Health Mgt. Team        28.0       29.3           0 0          0 0         27.0         28.3          40.4         42.3         95.4
2. Apac Total                      143.8        7.3       1.160.7         59.5        390 4         20.0         253.0         12.9       1,947.9
A. Public Operated Services        115.8       20.8        213.2          38.3        126.5         22.7          99.8         17.9        555.3
a. Ambulatory Services          34.1       10.1          98.0         29.2        102.9          30.7         99.8         29.8         334.8
b. Inpatient Services           81.7       37.0         115.2         52.2         23.6          10.7          0.0          0,0         220.5
B  PrivatelyOperatedServices         0.0        0.0        947.5          73.0        236.9          18.2        112.8          8.7       1,297.2
a. Ambulatory Senrices           0.0        0.0         367.7         64.2         91.9          16.0        112.8         19.7         572.4
b. Inpatient Services            (.0        0.0         579.8         79.9        145.0          20.0          0 0          0.0         724.8
C. District Health Mgmt. Team       28.0       29.3           0.0          0.0         27 0         28.3          40.4         42.3         95.4
Source. Health Planning Unit of the MOH, Uganda, March 1994.
rC



Annex 3
52                             Page 1 of 12
Telegrams:  'MEDMIN'.            52                   Office of the Minister of
Telephones:  General Office 20201.                                          Health,
Accounts Office 20201.                      P.O. Box 8,
In any correspondence on M/2/1                        Entebbe,
this subject please quote No.    THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA    Uganda.
November 10th., 1994
Mr. Edward V. K. Jaycox
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
Re: LETTER OF HEALTH SECTOR POLICY
The purpose of this letter is to describe the health sector policies
that we intend to follow during the next five years, during which time we will
be implementing the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
(DHSP). This letter draws upon the White Paper on Health Policy, which was
recently approved by Cabinet. The letter is also consistent with the Three
Year Health Plan Frame 1993/94 - 1995/96. Specific monitorable actions are
included in the attached Action Plan.
Overall Development Strategy
In recent years, the Government of Uganda has been implementing a
program of stabilization, economic recovery, and structural adjustment. Our
most recent statements of development strategy are in the Way Forward I and
Way Forward II (1992), dealing with macroeconomic and sectoral strategies
respectively; and the Policy Framework Paper for 1994/95 - 1996/97 (June
1994). As indicated in these statements, the role of public institutions will
be to establish the infrastructure and policy environment conducive to private
sector development. The ongoing process of liberalization, defined as "moving
toward policies which work through markets", will be continued. We intend to
further reduce the Government budget deficit, in order to maintain price
stability while making a greater share of credit resources available to the
private sector. Our public expenditure strategy is to concentrate expenditute
on those activities in which Government must play a leading role, and to
ensure that expenditures within priority sectors are cost-effective.
Additionally, the Government is implementing a Decentralization program,
in order to increase local democratic control and participation in decision-
making, and to mobilize support for development which is relevant to local
needs. An enabling legal framework for Decentralization is provided by the
Local Governments (Resistance Councils) Statute, 1993. As part of this
program, control over field personnel is being shifted from Central Government
ministries to the District Executive Secretary (DES).   Ministries that are
being decentralized will have the Headquarters   streamlined to a core of
policy makers, planners, and inspectors.



53                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 12
2
Recurrent expenditure authority is being decentralized to the districts
through a phased process. In the first phase, district votes are being
created in the Central Government budget, with the funds earmarked by sector,
and the DES becoming the accounting officer. In the second phase, all Central
Government Recurrent funding for decentralized services is in the form of a
block grant to the district. Thirteen districts were in the first phase of
expenditure decentralization in the 1993/94 financial year. With the 1994/95
financial year, the first group of districts entered the second phase of
expenditure decentralization, while a second group composed of fourteen
districts entered the first phase. It is expected that the process of moving
all districts through both phases will be completed with the 1996/97 financial
year.
Health and Health Care in Uganda
Uganda's aggregate health indicators, such as the infant mortality rate
(recorded in the Report on the 1991 National Population Census to be 121.7 per
thousand live births) and, life expectancy at birth, (estimated to be only 43
years), are poor. Uganda is one of the countries most severely impacted by
the AIDS epidemic. The Total Fertility Rate of 7.1 is among the highest in the
world.
The health care sector is pluralistic. In terms of bed-days or clinical
visits, the Government sector provides 40-45% of health care in Uganda, with
the balance coming from non-governmental providers. The Government's clinical
health services include district hospitals reporting to the Ministry of
Health, and lower-level units supported by district administrations.
Recognising the effect that Government health services suffer from
inadequately paid workers, and inadequate non-wage expenditure, Government is
putting in place arrangements to improve the welfare of health workers from
the on going civil service reform exercise. NGO facilities display greater
capacity utilization and staff productivity.
Despite the prevailing poor health conditions, spending on health in
Uganda is relatively low. In 1992/93, Government expenditure on health
(including external aid) was $2.82 per capita, while private expenditure on
health is estimated to have been $4.91 per capita, yielding total health
spending of $7.73 per capita. For comparison, total health spending lies in
the range $11-19 per capita in most Sub-Saharan African countries, and the
cost of providing a package of essential, highly cost-effective health
services in low-income countries has been estimated at $12 per capita.
Furthermore, health spending in Uganda has been skewed toward curative
treatment of mostly preventable problems in secondary and tertiary facilities,
with preventive and primary curative services substantially underfunded.
Health Policy
As indicated in the current Public Investment Plan (the "PIP" previously
called the Rehabilitation and Development Plan, "RDP"), we wish to move from
the prevailing situation of high mortality and high fertility to a situation



54                          Annex 3
Page 3 of 12
3
of lower mortality and lower fertility. We wish to alleviate the burden of
illness on the population as a matter of welfare, and also to protect the
population's productive capacity.
Taking the current situation of the health sector into account, we
intend to mobilize more resources for the health sector, both through the
Central Government budget, and through additional financing mechanisms. We
also intend to improve resource allocation in the health sector, by:
reallocating toward the most cost-effective public health and clinical
interventions; implementing effectively the Decentralization program in the
health sector, including capacity building; restoring the functional capacity
and improving the efficiency of essential existing Government facilities; and
facilitating a greater role for NGOs, the private sector and, communities.
Resource Mobilization through the Central Government Budget. Resource
Mobilization through the Central Government Budget. In recent years, Central
Government expenditure on the health sector has been on an increasing trend,
reaching 91 billion shillings (about 2.0% of GDP) in 1993/94, which was the
last year before the shift to block grant system for the decentralized
districts. One of our objectives is that Central Government expenditure for
the health sector increases, in real per capita terms, each year over the
medium term. This will require monitoring the utilization of block grants by
the districts.
Alternative/Additional Financing Mechanisms. The Local Governments
(Resistance Councils) Statute enables local administrations to charge fees for
any services provided by them. The White Paper confirms that the Government
encourages local initiatives in health financing to improve service quality.
In their district health plans, the objectives chosen by the districts for
raising revenues at the health unit level range from 7% to 25% of the direct
costs of providing services. The Local Governments Statute also requires
districts to keep proper books of accounts, which shall be audited by the
Auditor-General or an auditor appointed by him. Quarterly financial and
technical reports, on the basis of submissions by Government health units,
will be prepared by the District Health Team and provided to the District
Resistance Council. The districts will prepare consolidated quarterly reports
to the Ministry of Health, starting with the three DHSP pilot districts during
1994/95; this system will be implemented nationwide not later than June 1996.
The Government will develop and issue guidelines, by January 1996, on the
raising of revenues at the health unit level, addressing issues including
protection for the poor, subsidization of services with public health
benefits, and appropriate management practice.
At the present time, civil servants are entitled to free health care.
Civil servants are expected to visit Government health units to obtain the
free care to which they are entitled; however, upon certification of need by a
Government health unit, they may utilize private services and claim
reimbursement. As part of the Civil Service Reform program, a plan for
monetization of civil servants' benefits is being developed. Under this plan,
housing, transportation, and health care benefits will be replaced with
approximate cash salary equivalents. Free health care for civil servants,



55                          Annex 3
Page 4 of 12
4
including health workers, will therefore be discontinued, as soon as
monetization of civil servants' benefits becomes effective within the period
projected by the Ministry of Public Service of about four (4) years. This
step will result in additional resources for the health sector.
The Government will explore options for meeting the health financing
needs of employees by the medium-to-large scale corporate sector. This could
include corporate health facilities or mandatory health insurance. As part of
DHSP, the Government will experiment on a pilot basis with capitation grants /
voucher schemes for health financing.
Drawing upon the initiatives mentioned above, and experience with other
financing options, the Government will issue a comprehensive policy statement
on health care financing, no later than December, 1996.
Reallocation Toward the Most Cost-effective Public Health and Clinical
Interventions. The Government has decided to concentrate its efforts on those
interventions, called "essential", which are most cost-effective in averting
the burden of disease. The package of essential health services for Uganda is
described in the DHSP proposal appraised by the Bank (IDA) in June of 1994.
Many of these services are preventive, and generally are not provided by
private providers to the full extent justified by cost-effectiveness
considerations.
Such interventions are provided primarily in lower-level clinical
facilities, and in non-clinic based public health programs. Therefore, the
allocation of Government health expenditure among (a) hospitals, (b) primary
health care (lower-level clinical facilities and nonclinical public health
programs) and (c) other functions (training, research, and administration)
will be monitored. For 1993/94, this allocation is 52% for hospitals, 33% for
lower-level clinical facilities and public health programs, and 15% for other
functions (training, research, and administration). Other options for
expenditure categorisation (such as that expressed in the "PIP") for
monitoring policy objectives attainment will continue to be explored in
collaboration with the Bank.
For the future, our intention is that most of the growth of Government
expenditure (in real terms) will be devoted to health facilities below the
hospital level and public health programs. With the shift to the block grant
system and delegation of many district hospital management functions by the
Ministry to the district administrations (1995/96 financial year), most public
expenditure in the health sector will be under the direct control of the
district administrations, rather than the Ministry of Health. Guidelines have
been issued by Government to the decentralized districts concerning the
expectation that appropriate priority will be devoted to core services such as
primary education and primary health care. We will take corrective action if
our monitoring reveals the need for it. Considering that the local government
financial year runs from October through September, which means that the
District Councils must approve their annual estimates no later than September,
we will prepare and provide to IDA a report with relevant data on budgeted and



Annex 3
56                          Page 5 of 12
5
recent actual Government expenditure in the health sector, not later than
December 1 of each year.
To ensure that public funds are focussed on the essential package, the
Government will monitor the implementation of these services, to assess the
health benefits arising from them in relation to cost.
Effective Implementation of the Decentralization Program in the Health
Sector, including Capacity Building. The past arrangement in which district
hospitals have operated outside the formal coordination of the district
administrations, and therefore have not been integrated into the district
health delivery system, has been recognized as an organizational anomaly. As
indicated in the White Paper, district hospitals will be expected to
participate in district health services outside their physical premises, and
to give technical support to the District Health Team in supervision of lower
health units. In order to more effectively integrate the district hospitals
into the district health administration, district hospitals will be brought
under the authority of the district health admninstrations by the 1995/96
financial year.
The implications of decentralization for the Central Government
Recurrent budget have already been discussed above. With regard to the
Central Government Development budget, much of the funding appearing there is
for donor-financed vertical programs, with much of the expenditure actually
recurrent in terms of its economic nature. The Report of the Joint Task Force
on Health Services Decentralization has recognized that the proliferation of
parallel vertical programs has tended to undermine integrated delivery of
health services.  This Task Force has recommended that the practice of
vertical program managers being involved in the execution of programs should
be discontinued, with all vertical programs at the district level integrated
under the District Medical Officer. It has specifically recommended that
funds disbursed from the Central Government Development budget in support of
services which are recurrent in nature should be transferred to the District
Health Services Account, to be managed by the local authorities. We will
review the major vertical programs and donor support, with a view to
determining which aspects can be decentralized, and integrated at the district
level. The general principle will be that only responsibilities where there
are economies of scale and are the most technically demanding will remain with
the Central Government. The tuberculosis and AIDS control programs have
recently been restructured along these lines. We will strongly urge donors to
adopt a common approach to funding essential health services at the district
level.
In order to further clarify responsibilities in the decentralized
system, an Implementation Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Health, and including representatives from the ministries for
Public Service, Local Government (Decentralization Secretariat), and Finance
and Economic Planning, and a small number of local authorities, will formulate
an Action Plan for Health Services Decentralization. The Action Plan will be
circulated for discussion in draft form by March, 1995, and adopted by
Government by July, 1996.



Annlex3
I';ae 6 of 12
6
In order to effectively implement the Decentralization program for the
health sector, substantial capacity building at both district and central
levels will be required. In order to assist the district health
administrations to carry out their enhanced responsibilities, we intend to
support them in strengthening management; planning, budgeting and accounting;
health management information systems; and community participation.
Under decentralization, the role of the Ministry of Health will change
to policy and standard setting, planning, technical supervision, and training.
This will require a restructuring and reduction in size of MOH. The
Implementation Committee mentioned will also prepare an Action Plan for
Restructuring the Ministry of Health, drawing upon the relevant reports on
this subject. The Action Plan for restructuring MOH will be circulated for
discussion in draft form by mid-January 1995, and adopted by Government no
later than July, 1995. Appropriate capacity building will be provided for the
restructured MOH.
Restoring the Functional Capacity and Improving the Efficiency of
Essential Government Services. The Government will concentrate on bringing
essential services up to an acceptable standard, through repair of buildings;
improvement of maintenance systems; providing necessary inputs such as
equipment, drugs, and supplies; and greater motivation and training of health
personnel. Where there is a lack of Government facilities, district
administrations will be encouraged to negotiate with non-governmental
providers to extend the coverage and improve the quality of the most cost-
effective, "essential" health services. Any expansion by building of new
Government hospitals and major facilities will be avoided, unless
subsidization of resulting recurrent costs is strictly limited to the
essential package. Standards for health units and health facilities at
different levels will be re-examined, and refined as justified.
About 82% of Medical Officers and 79% of registered nurses are in
hospitals. The shortage of trained health staff in the rural and difficult
areas of the country must be addressed. Under the decentralized system, all
non-hospital health staff are employed by the district and are responsible to
the District Executive Secretary. Following the devolution of hospitals to
the districts, this will also be the case with hospital staff. The Ministry
of Health will assist the districts to identify, recruit, and deploy senior
trained staff. The Government, together with the local authorities, will
develop guidelines on staffing, and appropriate career paths for health
professionals in public employment.
The National Medical Stores Statute, 1993, establishes the National
Medical Stores (NMS) as an organization which will complement the private
sector. NMS has a broadly representative Board of Directors, and management
recruited from the open market. The supply system is being reformed, with
districts purchasing most drugs and other supplies with the funds available to
them, instead of being supplied "in kind" by the former Central Medical
Stores.



58                          Annex 3
Page 7 of 12
7
Government has agreed that Mulago Hospital, which is Uganda's leading
referral and teaching hospital, will become autonomous, and will be limited to
tertiary health care services. This will involve establishing a Management
Board with much greater responsibility for financial, personnel, and
operational management, and the clear mandate to raise resources, thereby
reducing Mulago's dependence on the Government budget. The Management Board
with enhanced powers will assume responsibility for the Hospital no later than
January, 1995. The Government will also develop by July, 1996, a strategic
plan for the delivery of health services in the Kampala area, and subsequently
implement it. This plan will include a strict referral protocol and include a
major role for NGOs/private sector in provision of primary and secondary
services.
Facilitating a Greater Role for NGOs, the Private Sector, and
Communities. Pilot schemes will be introduced to test such approaches as (a)
involving NGO hospitals in the supervision of Government health units; (b)
supporting NGOs to provide specified services, including training; (c)
contracting NGOs to take over management of some Government facilities; (d)
designating some NGO hospitals as district hospitals. The District Medical
Officer will monitor the clinical services at public sector, NGO, and private
sector facilities to ensure that minimum clinical standards, to be set by the
Government, are maintained. Communities will be encouraged to take more
direct responsibility for their health, through education and motivation
programs, and by encouraging contributions toward the cost of providing
services.
We are looking forward to continued collaboration with IDA and other
donors in the implementation of these policies.
Sincerely,
Hon. J.G.S. Makumbi
MINISTER OF HEALTH
cc.   The Hon. J.S. Mayanja-Nkangi,
Minister of Finance and Economic Development,
P.O. Box 8147.
Kampala, Uganda



UGANDA
DISTRICT HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Action Plan
The activities associated with the District Health Services Project include delivery of essential health packages, institutional capacity building, and health
policy reform measures. Key policy and institutional measures are listed below, while activities for the delivery of essential health service packages are treated
elsewhere.
MEASURES                                       TIMING        RESPONSIBILITIES          NOTES
1. Level of Central Government Funding for the Health Sector. In 1992/93, Central   Each fiscal  MFEP             HPU to follow-
Government expenditure on health was about $2.83 per capita. In the White Paper    year.                          up.
on Health Policy, the Government has committed itself to increase the budget
allocation to the health sector each year. In addition, the White Paper states that the
recent trend of an increasing share of the budget going to the social sectors, is
expected to continue.
2. Alternative/Additional Financing Mechanisms. In 1992/93, private expenditure on
health services was about $4.91 per capita. Total health spending in Uganda was
therefore only $7.73 per capita. Under the Local Governments Statute, local
administrations may charge fees for services, and the White Paper confirms that the
Government encourages local revenue-raising initiatives to improve health services.
Local administrations are required to keep proper books of account, which shall be
audited.
a. (i) Distnrcts will monitor, on a quarterly basis, progress toward the objective of   (i) Pilot-  (i)Districts reporting to  PCO to follow
increasing cost recovery, with a system of Distnrct reports to the Ministry of Health   testing Oct 94-   HPU     up, (SIDA
to be established.                                                         Mar 95.                                Financing).
(ii) Government will issue guidelines on cost recovery for health services,  (ii) Jan 1996.    (ii) MOH        HPU to follow-
addressing relevant issues.                                                                                       up.
b. As part of Civil Service Reform program, discontinue free health care for civil   July 1998.  MPS              HPU to follow-    x
servants.                                                                                                         up.             o
-hh
c. Explore compulsory health financing for employees in the corporate sector, and    Oct 94-Oct 95.   HPU         ODA-financed  _
insurance schemes.                                                                                                studies to
I___________________________________________________I_________________________  I_________________________________  examine.



Df                              MEASURES                                    |   TIMING       | RESPONSIBILITIES  |   NOTES
3. Reallocate toward the most cost-effective interventions. Government has decided
to concentrate its efforts on those interventions which tend to be undersupplied by the
private sector, and which are the most cost-effective in averting the burden of
disease. These would be public health interventions, and the most cost-effective
clinical interventions for undcrprovided populations, especially in the rural areas and
areas for the urban poor.
a. Measure progress in reallocating Government expenditure. The pnrority areas  Measurement    HPU                  PCU to follow-
for Government expenditure are public health programs, and interventions provided    for FY92/93                    up.
mainly by lower-level clinical facilities, as distinguished from hospitals. Therefore,    budget,
the allocation of Central Government expenditure among (i) hospitals, (ii) lower-level  FY92/93 actual,
clinical facilities, and (iii) non clinic-based public health programs, will be  and FY93/94
monitored. Other approaches for expenditure categorization to improve the focus for  budget due Feb
monitoring allocation toward policy objectives will be explored.            1, 1995
b. Establish a capability to measure the cost-effectiveness of interventions.  Develop       HPU                    World Bank
proposal for                           to assist and
follow-on                               PCU to follow-
activities of                           up.
Regional Burden
of Disease
Studies by Feb.
95.
0D rD
x
D.
0



[                              MEASURES                                       TIMING        RESPONSIBILITIES        NOTES
4. Effectively Implement the Decentralization Programn in the Health Sector. The
Decentralization (Local Government) Act provides an enabling legal framework for
Decentralization. The Task Force on Health Services Decentralization has made
recommendations for the health sector, including restructuring of vertical programs,
so that only responsibilities where there are economies of scale or which are the most
technically demanding remain with the Central Government.
a. Delegation of Recurrent Expenditure authority to the districts.
(i)   Recurrent Expenditure authority for health, as a lump-sum, delegated to    July 1993  MFEP, MOH
the 13 districts, which may allocate these funds according to the pnonrties set out in
their health plans.
(ii)  Delegate Recurrent Expenditure authority for health to an additional 14  July 1994  MFEP, MOH
districts.
(iii)  Delegate Recurrent expenditure authority for health to the remaining (12)   July 1995  MFEP, MOH
districts.
b. Restructure vertical programs.                                        Jan 1995 to Dec  Directors of Operations  ODA-financed
(i)   AIDS control                                                    1996.           and of Technical      study will
(ii)  Tuberculosis                                                                    Support.               examine
(mii)  Immunization                                                                                          structures.
(iv)  Control of Diarrhea Disease
(v)  Communicable Disease Control (Malaria)
(VI)  Any other major programs
c. Strengthen budgeting, accounting, Health Information System, health planning,   Jan 1995 to Dec  HPU and PCO.  SIDA funds
and supervision in the district health administrations.                   1997.                                 available for
pilots.
(D 
x
o w
0



MEASURES                                     l   TIMING        l RESPONSIBILITIES  l   NOTES
5. Restore the Functional Capacity and Improve the Efficiency of Essential Existing
Government Facilities.
a. Establish standards for health units and health facilitics at different levels.  Bx' Jan 1996  Director of Operations   PCO to folloNN-
up.
b. Rationalize and re-deploy staffing. including schemes to attract qualified staff to   Bv July 1998  Director-Gcneral.
difficult areas.                                                                                DES's & DMO's
c. Medical Stores Act, under which the Central Medical Stores will operate in  Now operational  NDA & NMS.
competition wvith the private sector, wNas recently passed by Parliament. The supply    under an Act of
system is being reformed, with districts purchasing drugs and other supplies wsith the   Parliament.
funds available to them, instead of being supplied "in kind" by CMS.
d. (i)   Government has agreed that Mulago Hospital should become autonomous.   By July 1996.    Director-Gcneral
This wvill involve establishing a responsible and accountable management board The
basis for allocating Government funding for Mulago will need to be developed.
(ni)  Options for reallocating primary and secondar\ services away from                      Director-Gencral        ODA-finaniced
Mulago to lowcr-level facilities will be pursued.                                                                       study to
examine
e. Explore delegation of increased authority to boards of district hospitals.
6. Facilitating a Greater Role for NGOs. the Private Sector, and Communities.
Pilot schemes xvill bc introduced to test such approaches as;
(a) involving NGO hospitals in the supervision of Govcrnmcnt health units:     94/95.            HPU.                    ODA-financed
studics will
(b) supporting NGOs to provide specified services;                             94/95.            HPU.                    examine and
PCO to follox\-
(c) contracting NGOs to take over management of some Government facilities,    94/95.            HPU.                    up.
(d) designating some NGO hospitals as district hospitals.                      94/95.           HPU.



MEASURES                                          TIMING       [ RESPONSIBILITIES  [    NOTES    1]
7. Capacity building in the health sector. The Ministry of Health wvill be
restructured to reflect Decentralization, provided with appropriate facilities, and
strengthened to better perform its functions as restructured.
(i)   Draw up a new organization chart.                                    Bx Dec. 1994.    PS                       HPU/PCO to
follow-up.
(ii)  Implement new structure.                                             Bx Dec 1995.    PS
(iii)  Strengthen functions.                                               B\ Ju Iv 1996.    PS
(iv)  Move MOH Headquarters to suitable facilities in Kampala.             By July 1998.    PS and MoL&H.            Study has
found move
justified and
feasible.
CJ
N,)2



64
Annex 4
Page 1 of 6
THE ESSENTIAL HEALTH PACKAGE OF UGANDA
A.    INTRODUCTION
1      An analysis of the package of essential services Uganda identified is presented in
Table 1 which shows that a large share of the disease burden in the country is addressed
by the set of essential services identified, perhaps as much as 90 percent 'V. Some essential
services such as malaria, TB and STI control focus attention on one major health problem.
Others, such as the treatment of common health problems and nutrition have a broader
health impact. Two recent exercises have been conducted to establish the potential health
benefit (measured in Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYS)) and the associated cost of
various essential and other types of health services in Uganda. The results of these two
studies that the rough cost per life year saved from the essential health package among the
top ten health problems is less than $50, with many less than $10. It also indicates that the
less significant health problems in Uganda cost considerably more than $50 to save a year
of healthy life, most of which are not directly targeted by the services provided by the
identified essential package.
2.     General Considerations Underlying Essential Package Definition. The
underlying objective for defining this essential package of health services is to obtain the
greatest health improvement in terms of disease reduction as possible, given the resources
Uganda and its partner donors can mobilize for a sustained period. In addition, three
overarching considerations were involved in the development of this essential package.
These considerations have been; (a) all health care providers, including those who work
for the public sector, as well as those in NGO and private capacities, including those
which work at the community level, e.g., CHWs and TBAs, are involved in the delivery of
the essential package, (b) the total cost of delivering the essential package includes both
the service delivery cost as well as the support costs incurred at the district level for
supervision, training, community mobilization, IEC, physical rehabilitation and repair of
buildings, equipment and transport, information system implementation, financial
sustainability systems development, and research and evaluation of service delivery,
including the related health status impact; and (c) defining a feasible financing plan for the
essential package elements from resources made available from government, community
charges, community contributions in the form of labor, other donor assistance, and via the
support of the District Health Services Project (DHSP) donor consortium
I      Table I shows the main and secondary disease specific focus of each essential health service. In
addition, it shows the ranking of each health problem in terms of its disease burden in DALY terms as
well as the relative cost-effectiveness of preventive and curative health interventions designed to address
each specific health problem. The top ten disease problems according to the analvsis of the HPU, MOH
are associated with perhaps as much as 85 percent of the healthy life lost each year in Uganda.



65
Annex 4
Pagc 2 of 6
MALARIA CONTROL
3.    According to Ugandan health statistics, malaria is responsible for a larger share of
mortality and sickness than any other single cause. At present, approximately 25% of all
hospital outpatient attendance, 20% of hospital admissions, and 14% of hospital in-patient
deaths are caused by malaria. As in other parts of Sub-Saharan Africa, the deaths are
concentrated in children. Adults who lack immunity are also at high risk of death. In
terms of morbidity, large numbers of children and adults suffer from numerous bouts of
fever each year. Finally, malaria is a primary cause of anemia in women and children.
Hence, through these different causes, malaria is a major cause of ill-health, death, and
economic loss.
4.    A range of highly cost-effective preventive and curative interventions are available
to reduce the losses caused by malaria. This component of the essential package focuses
on raising the coverage and quality of these interventions from the currently very low
levels prevailing in Uganda. They include: (a) develop health education programs; (b)
establish at least one district level drug revolving fund for items used for treatment and
prophylaxis; (c) provide presumptive treatment of malaria with chloroquine and, as
second-line drugs, Fansidar or quinine, and improve treatment by training staff and
improving diagnostic capacity, (d) provide prophylaxis with chloroquine for pregnant
women, (e) promote the use of impregnated materials, including bed nets, by households
to achieve a coverage rate of at least thirty percent or more in each district, (f) mobilize
communities to make environmental improvements to prevent mosquitoes from breeding;
and (g) conduct assessments and evaluations to determine whether further program
extensions may be warranted (the strategies for implementing these programmatic
activities are specified in greater detail in reports available in the project file.) With the
exception of conducting assessments and evaluations, these interventions will be delivered
by using existing public and private sector health facilities and workers. As a component
of the national supporting activities for the delivery of essential health services at the
district level, it will also be important to implement a malaria drug policy which
encourages the rational use of safe and efficacious generic drugs; and takes irrational and
hazardous anti-malarials off the market. This policy component is consistent with the
establishment of drug revolving funds as they will require some national guidance
regarding the rational use of safe and efficacious generic drugs.
MCII/FP/EPI SERVICES
5.    A large proportion of the burden of disease in Uganda is associated with poor
maternal and child health. The infant mortality rate is estimated to be about 122 per
thousand and increased over the last two decades in comparison with many other
countries in the region where there has been at least a forty percent decline (e.g., Kenya,
Tanzania, and Zimbabwe). Further, the health status of Ugandan women is marked by a
high rate of maternal mortality (550 per 100,000 live births), a prevalence rate of HIV of
between 5 and 30 percent, and a total fertility rate of about 7. 1 women with contraceptive



66                                   Annex 4
Page 3 of 6
prevalence being six percent (2.7). The mean age at first birth is past over 18, thus
making early child bearing and adolescent reproductive health significant concerns.
6.    The overall objective of the MCH/FP component is to improve the health status of
women and children through the provision of integrated family planning, antenatal and
maternity services. Focusing on women in their reproductive years, the interventions are
aimed at reducing fertility, the risks associated with childbirth and neonatal and perinatal
illness. The specific goals of the component are to: (a) improve the quality and range of
reproductive health services for women; (b) improve accessibility by providing integrated
services for family planning and maternal child health care; (c) build capacity of
community-level and facility-based providers to provide a continuum of care from the
community to the first-referral level; (d) raise awareness of reproductive health care issues
to stimulate demand for services and to encourage community participation in efforts to
improve health status; (e) enhance the coverage and effectiveness of services by
supporting collaboration among governmental, NGO and private providers; and (f)
improve MCH/FP health policy and service delivery by increasing knowledge of the
effectiveness and cost of interventions through operations research.
7.    The major interventions of the component are to: (a) extend the availability of
government and private family planning services; (b) develop safe delivery and referral at
the community level; (c) improve antenatal and delivery care in government and private
facilities; (d) establish community mobilization and IEC activities in collaboration with
NGOs; and (e) ensure the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) is in fact expanded
and sustained. Each component intervention has several specific elements. For example,
the extension of family planning services includes training health workers, increasing the
provision of family planning equipment and supplies and the number of service delivery
points. Similarly, improving community and facility based care implies additional training
of personnel at both levels and increasing the provision of equipment and supplies for
TBAs and facility based nurses and midwives. Community mobilization and IEC activities
are particularly focused on extending reproductive health education to adults and
adolescents at the community level and developing community transport and referral
system for emergency complications. In addition, operations research on maternal health
and adolescent sexuality will inform policy decision making.
HYGIENE, SANITATION, AND WATER
8.    While Ugandan data on the proportion of deaths and sickness caused by low water
quality and sanitation are weak, available health statistics show that non-specific
gastrointestinal conditions contribute to roughly 10% of infant deaths, and about 4% of
deaths in both children between 2-4 years of age and in adults. The burden of sickness is
likely to be equally great, with significant deleterious effects on the productive of school-
age children and workers, and on household income because of the time spent on care and
expenditures made on treatment. In addition to diarrheal diseases, intestinal helminths and
schistosomes are transmitted as a result of poor water and sanitary conditions, resulting in



67                                     Annex 4
Page 4 of 6
a large additional burden of ill-health, especially in children. Equally important, water
availability and quality -- and water-borne diseases -- are top concerns of rural Ugandans,
according to the results of a Beneficiary Assessment Survey that was undertaken by the
Government in May 1994, designed projects combining water supply, excreta disposal,
and hygiene education may achieve reductions of 35 to 50 percent in diarrhea morbidity,
quite apart from reducing mortality and morbidity caused by other water-borne infections.
9.    The water and sanitation component of the essential package focuses on two broad
areas: (a) supply of safe water, and (b) environmental sanitation and hygiene education.
To improve the supply of safe water, the project will complement the work of several
ongoing programs in Uganda that are directed at improving access to safe water. These
programs will be contracted to provide safe water sources to communities in the pilot and
demonstration districts actively involved in this project. The provision of water ill be used
by the project as an entry point for raising community awareness and the demand for
latrines, including gravity schemes, rain water catchment, valley tanks, shallow wells and
bore holes. It is also widely accepted that without abundant water in or near the home,
hygiene becomes difficult or impossible.
10.   The emphasis in the area of environmental health and sanitation is four fold. First,
the project encourages communities and individual households to increase the use of pit
latrines to levels above 60 percent of households, the rate prevailing throughout the
country as of 1990. To accomplish this important objective, efforts will focus on
community mobilization, increasing the number of demonstration latrines in public
locations, and by reducing the price of constructing them by seeking ways to incorporate
local materials, and by mass producing key items like floor slabs. Second, hygiene
education will promote hand-washing as the first priority message for mass dissemination.
Third, communities will be encouraged to carry out needed sanitary and point-of-se water
quality improvements. Point-of-use water quality refers to whether collection and storage
is done hygienically. Finally, communities will be mobilized to improve the environmental
health of their respective villages by re-establishing a village competition program,
successfully initiated in the 1960s, but discontinued due to political instability. Details are
available in the project file.
NUTRITION
11.   Poor nutrition underlies many health problems in the country. Poor nutrition not
only occurs due to inadequate food intake, but nutritional status is also affected by a lack
of micro nutrients such as Vitamin A and iron deficiency, poor food handling and
sanitation, and the presence of other diseases such as helminthic infections. Many of these
nutritional problems manifest themselves in women and children who often eat only after
adult males have completed their meal. The nutrition package component has been
extended in scope and level of effort.
12.   It is proposed that nutritional status can be most cost-effectively improved by
implementing four extended activity programs in selected pilot and demonstration



68                                    Annex 4
Page 5 of 6
districts. First, it is proposed to address two specific micro nutrient problems, Vitamin A
deficiency which contributes to blindness, and iodine deficiency which manifests itself in
goiter. In addition to controlling Vitamin A deficiency by targeting Vitamin A micro
nutrient supplements to risk groups (such as pregnant women, infants and children with
acute illness), diet diversification will also be encouraged by producing Vitamin A rich
foods and new food preparation demonstrations. It is envisioned that controlling iodine
deficiency disease (IDD) can occur by targeting pregnant women with supplementary
iodine capsules in districts where severe iodine deficiency is determined (largely in higher
altitude and rainy areas) and by working on a national strategy to ensure iodized salt
throughout the country regardless of production source. Second, guidelines and training
for clinical based child health care will be modified to include growth monitoring as an
integral part of all child health care, and not just during specialized "growth monitoring"
clinic sessions. Third, it is proposed to provide special training to the district health team
and others who will be involved in social mobilization activities so that the district teams
can more rapidly design sustainable nutrition interventions appropriate for the identified
nutrition problems. Finally, little is known about the determinants of maternal nutrition
and how the nutritional status of mothers may be improved. In this regard, special study
will focus on how to introduce intermediate and low cost labor saving activities into rural
Ugandan households. Details are available in the project file.
STI/HIV AND TB CONTROL
13.   In Uganda during the mid-1990s, STDs and HIV/AIDS underlie the largest annual
health status loss with the exception of malaria and measles. The prevalence of HIV in the
general population is as high as in any country in Africa. Further, as HIV/AIDS
increasingly compromises the body's immune system, latent TB bacillus is reactivated and
over one-half of the AIDS cases in Uganda are contracting active cases of TB, and other
opportunistic infections are also increasing among those who have HIV. The Government
of Uganda acknowledges these problems and has recently begun to implement a World
Bank lead and multi-donor financed project initiative as defined in the Staff Appraisal
Report of the Sexually Transmitted Infection Project, (Report No. 12630-UG, March 9,
1994) to prevent the further transmission of HIV, and mitigate the personal impact of
AIDS. The District Health Support Project envisions working closely with the MOH in
implementing this project in the pilot and demonstration districts.
14.   To prevent the sexual transmission of STDs and HIV, the GOU will be working
with both private entities, including NGOs, and various government ministries, e.g.,
defense and industry as well as health, to: (a) promote and provide effective STD care; (b)
promote safer sexual behavior; and (c) widely disseminate condoms. To mitigate the
personal impact of AIDS and related secondary complications, the government will be
seeking ways to: (a) develop community and home based care for people with AIDS; (b)
improve health sector staff training (government and non-government) and provide
necessary drugs and supplies to all health facilities which address opportunistic infections
occurring among those with AIDS; and (c) provide for TB diagnosis by providing



69                                       Annex 4
Page 6 of 6
resources necessary to conduct sputum testing for TB case identification and case
management via efficacious drug therapy.
TREATMENT OF COMMON DISEASES.
15.   Besides the health problems directly affected by the essential health service
package components defined above, there are other common diseases and injuries for
which Ugandan seek basic health care. The most notable include diarrhea, acute
respiratory infections (ARI), measles, and various forms of trauma. Private and
government operated health services are responsible for providing the care required by the
Ugandan public for these common problems, though user charges are involved in financing
an increasingly large share of these services.2
16.   To ensure demand for public and private health care providers, and, thus, the
continued financial sustainability of existing public and private health providers involved in
the provision of essential health services, the quality of the services involved in treating
common diseases must be continually improved. Thus, the project will support the
treatment of common diseases by: (a) providing continuing education of district level staff
in diagnostic and treatment skills; and (b) improving the rational use of pharmaceutical
products used in treatment. These activities are consistent with the program of the Danish
govemment in its support to the Central Medical Stores, and to improve the cost-
effectiveness of drug use throughout the country. Finally, the project will support at the
district and national levels those efforts required to improve the management of health
facilities and their long term financing.
CONTROL AND TREATMENT OF SPECIAL HEALTH PROBLEMS.
17.    There are a number of special infectious and other health problems which are
found in just a few specific places in the country due to the environmental requirements of
the disease vector. For example, Onchocerciasis is only found in Uganda where there is
rapidly moving water flowing from the high mountains of the eastern and western borders
of the country. Other special health problems of Uganda include, but are not limited to,
Trypanosomiasis, Schistosomiasis, Meningitis, and Guinea Worm.
18.    This project will make funds available to specific districts for: (a) use in disease
surveillance, and (b) health staff training and efficacious drug treatment for those diseases
mentioned above. Funds will be made available through the Ministry of Health to each
district on the basis of an analysis documenting the existence of and trend in specific local
health problems for surveillance and selected health problems.
2   See Annex 2 for an analvsis of the financing ot the essential health package. It is estimated that user charges
Nvill finance about 58 percent of the total cost of-thic district level essential health care package.



70                                     Annex 5
Page 1 of 7
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF
GOVERNMENT HEALTH SERVICES
Organization of Government Health Services
1.    Health services in Uganda are provided by both Government and Non-Government
institutions. Health facilities are well-distributed throughout the country, except for the
North which is underserved. The Government sector accounts for 62% of hospital beds
and 58% of registered outpatient clinics, but there is a general shortage of funds,
particularly for essential supplies and pharmaceuticals, staff salaries and incentives, and
routine maintenance of equipment and facilities. As a result, there is limited utilization of
Government health facilities, both in relation to their potential and in comparison with
NGO or private sector facilities. A key constraint is how the Government facilities are
organized and managed, including issues of the overall structure of the health services, and
the planning, staffing, financing, supervision and monitoring of the services provided. This
Annex covers some of the problems faced, how they might be addressed in the future, and
how the District Health Services (DHS) Project seeks to address some of the issues
identified.
2.    In general, the Government health care system is organized into three principal
tiers: Mulago Hospital, the national referral hospital, in Kampala; the district hospital in
each district, headed by a Medical Superintendent, reporting directly to the Ministry of
Health, and lower-level facilities in each district, reporting to the District Medical Officer
of the Ministry of Health. The upper tiers are administered by the Ministry of Health,
while district administrations, in principle, are supposed to be responsible for the lower-
level facilities In fact, most of the health workers in the lower-level facilities are on the
MOH payroll and are seconded to local governments
3.    The health sector will be affected in a major way by the Decentralization program,
the principles of which were announced by the President of Uganda in October 1992. As
part of this program, control over field personnel will be shifted from Central Government
ministries to the District Executive Secretary (DES). Beginning with the 1993/94 financial
year, district votes have been created in the national government budget, initially for
thirteen districts, so that recurrent expenditure allocations can be sent directly from the
Treasury to the district. Ministry headquarters will be streamlined to a core of policy
makers, planners, and inspectors. A Decentralization Bill which includes the necessary
changes to relevant laws has been enacted by Parliament in September 1993.
4.    For the health sector, Decentralization has the following major implications: (a) the
district hospitals, for administrative and budgetary purposes, will now report to the
District Medical Officer, who in turn will report functionally to the Permanent Secretary,
MOH but administratively to the DES (in other words, the current "dualistic"
administration will remain at the district level), (b) the role of the MOH will evolve from
being primarily a "Ministry of Hospitals", to being primarily a "Ministry of Health Policy",
while retaining whatever "vertical" responsibilities for national programs/projects it would



71
Annex 5
Page 2 of 7
be inefficient to decentralize. A Task Force on Health Services Decentralization, drawn
from MOH, the Ministry of Local Government, and the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning, has submitted a Report (June 1993) making specific recommendations, including
de-verticalization, and integration at the district level, of many components of current,
donor-financed vertical programs.
5.    In addition, the Ministry of Public Service (MPS) has submitted a report
(September 1993) under its Civil Service Reform Program (CSRP) for the next
restructuring of the MOH. The report undertakes a fundamental review of the current
structure and establishment of the MOH, to make it more effective and efficient in light of
issues relevant to the MPS and the aims and objectives of the MOH. Its recommendations
cover both MOH and the public service itself The CSRP Report, prepared by the
Ministry of Public Service (MPS, Management Services Department; September 1993) is
very comprehensive and detailed - it is over 500 pages long, and includes 160 pages of
Appendices. The report also includes a detailed Implementation Action Plan (Section 9)
and Job Descriptions of key posts (Appendix D). It gives detailed findings, conclusions
and recommendations for the Ministry as a whole, as well as for all the major Departments
of the MOH, including: Primary Health Care, Planning and Training, Communicable
Disease Control, Curative and Rehabilitative Services; Engineering; Administration and
Finance.
Assessment of MOH's Organization and Management
6.    The CSRP report on restructuring the MOH proposes a number of wide-ranging
recommendations, and an Action Plan for implementing these during the next few years.
Its major conclusions and recommendations, for each of the areas covered, are outlined
below, along with IDA's comments - which have been incorporated in the proposed Letter
of Sector Policy (LSP) and Matrix.
7.    General Public Services. In accordance with the GOU's policy of
Decentralization, many public service functions will be devolved to district level.
Accordingly, the CSRP Report notes that for the MOH, as for other Government
ministries: a) project staff will no longer automatically remain, or become, established
public servants, b) the size of the public service will only be under the control of either the
public or district service commission; c) the group employee scheme will be abolished
(existing group employees will be engaged in newly established grades or fixed term
contracts or retrenched); and d) administrative, finance, planning and personnel cadres will
become permanent MOH staff, but their individual career planning and collective
manpower planning will be done by MPS.
8.    The Report also identifies the need to: a) reevaluate many of the new jobs, and
define their status and grade within the new Public Service grade structure, and b) to
substantially raise pay levels of MOH staff to ensure their cooperation in implementing this
CSRP recommendations. Effective resolution of these issues could have a far-reaching
impact on the functioning of the MOH. It is important that staff motivation and salaries be



72                                    Annex 5
Page 3 of 7
improved substantially, so that support for health reform and restructuring is further
strengthened. The MOH and MPS need to agree in the next few months on an Action
Plan for implementing the CSRP recommendations over the next 1-2 years. A summary
list of about 30 key implementation tasks for top management of the MOH is provided in
Appendix F of the CSRP report, and provides a good starting point for undertaking the
reforms needed.
9.    Health Policy. The CSRP Report notes that even though much progress has
recently been made in setting a policy reform agenda, there is no national health policy
formally declared by the MOH, and that formal planning and strategy formulation are
lacking, leading to what appears to be a crisis management approach. The report
identifies gaps in policies regarding: a) the distribution and development of health units; b)
medical research; c) food and nutrition; d) the role of hospitals in primary health care
(PHC); e) community participation in health financing; and f) rehabilitation and
development of health services. In addition, some of the existing policies, such as the
policy on private medical practice, appear not to be strictly enforced.
10.   It is recommended that MOH urgently finalize its new health policy and strategy,
based on the White Paper approved by Cabinet in 1993 (and the proposed LSP for DHS
project), and seek its formal approval by Parliament. Program priorities and resource
allocation should then be in accordance with the new health policy, and should focus on
preventive and promotive aspects of health and changing the health services orientation
from curative to PHC, as outlined in the Three-Year-Plan (1993-95). IDA is proposing
that effective implementation of the policy reform package/LSP would be a condition for
continued IDA funding of the DHS project. Hence it would be useful for the MOH to
establish a high-level Implementation Committee for health policy and MOH restructuring,
as suggested in the CSRP report. It is proposed that this would be a condition of project
effectiveness for the DHSP, and that implementation of the reform package would be
closely monitored by IDA in accordance with the policy matrix attached to the LSP.
11    Health Operating Systems. The Government's operating systems for planning
and managing its resources in the health sector appear to be rather weak. The CSRP
Report notes several deficiencies: a) the health sector is inappropriately oriented to
curative, hospital and urban services, instead of preventive, primary and rural care; b) the
referral system (between primary, secondary and tertiary levels of care) is not functional,
leading to waste of resources and distorted work plans; c) the lack of prioritization of
activities has led to resource waste and abuse (e.g., on the hotel function for supply of
food in Government hospitals); d) there is a serious lack of incentives for health personnel
to improve resource utilization; and e) drug trafficking is apparently rampant, and many
health workers do private practice in Government facilities.
12.   In addition, the Report noted that health personnel have low productivity and low
quality of services - in part due to declining real wages, and having to work in poorly
maintained and ill equipped health units. Also, absenteeism is common, there is little
supervision of work done, and there is poor accountability for resource utilization.



73                                     Annex 5
Page 4 of 7
Furthermore: a) communication, both vertically and horizontally within the MOH, and
across the entire health sector, is inadequate; b) intersectoral communication and
coordination of activities with NGOs and other health care providers is limited; c)
intersectoral planning and prioritization are weak; and d) there is notable absence of a
unified system of administration and accountability.
13.   It is clear that the CSRP report outlines a number of key management areas that
require substantial improvement. The report is comprehensive, and outlines many useful
ideas. In response, an equally comprehensive Management Reform Program would be
needed to tackle the basic issues raised. The proposed top-level Implementation
Committee, assisted by staff of the proposed Planning and Inspection department and the
Management Advisor, need to review the CSRP report with the MPS and to initiate a
program of action for the Ministry as a whole. In addition, separate Task Forces may
need to be established for major functional areas or issues, as appropriate. The
Implementation Action Plan (Section 9 of the CSRP report; pp. 343-352) provides a
useful starting point for this program of restructuring.
14.   Management and Control. As noted earlier, according to the CSRP report, the
MOH's efficiency and effectiveness of management and control are affected by several
constraints. These include: the lack of a deliberate health policy and well articulated
health plans, shared responsibilities in the provision of health services with MOLG; an
unconducive internal structure; and the inadequate integration and coordination of
research activities in health services. Also, MOH is grossly under-funded, and funds are
released irregularly through bureaucratic procedures leading to insufficient logistics,
infrastructure, and misallocation and maldistribution of materials, finances and human
resources.
15.    Furthermore, the CSRP Report notes that in the Government health sector as a
whole, there is inadequate coordination of health activities and services; inadequate
supervision of health services; inappropriate attitudes of health professionals, workers and
the community, insufficient lateral and vertical coordination of work responsibility and
authority, and inaccessibility to health care services. Also, there is little or no
accountability for resources allocated to various units, and no inspectorate to monitor
activities. The Report recommends that strong leadership is needed to ensure discipline
and coordinated delivery of the health services; target-setting needs to be strengthened at
district and hospital levels, there is also need for flexible planning and priority-setting, and
supportive supervision is needed at all levels to ensure performance.
16.   Obviously, the top management structure of MOH needs to be rationalized further
(the recent separation of the PS and DMS positions is a welcome development).
Improved management and control of the Ministry's operations are essential, and priority
should be given to issues of accountability, efficiency and effectiveness. The CSRP report
makes some very useful suggestions (particularly in Sections 8 and 9, pp. 293-352; and
Appendix F). These deserve serious consideration and implementation according to an
agreed action plan.



74                                   Annex 5
Page 5 of 7
17.   Implementation Tasks. Since the new health policy emphasizes preventive and
primary health care in rural areas, the MOH needs to re-orient its role vis-a-vis district-
level and municipal health offices. Suitable structural changes would be needed in MOH
to accomplish this; and these changes would need to be accompanied by complementary
changes in the role/function, skills and attitudes of district-level staff responsible for
providing rural health services. The CSRP Report provides a long list of tasks that need
to be undertaken to implement the report's recommendations (see attached Table xx,
based on the Report's Appendix F). There is obviously a need to prioritize the various
recommendations, and to identify those that can be implemented immediately and those
that require a medium-term (1-2 years) time frame. Once agreement has been reached
between MOH and MPS, responsibilities need to be assigned to senior/functional
managers of MOH for implementing various recommendations.
18.   Reform of the personnel, accounting, budgeting and information systems needs to
be given high priority, both at the central and district levels. MOH's Implementation
Committee should ensure that, in the context of decentralized implementation of health
services, its activities are closely coordinated with those of other relevant agencies (such
as the MIPS, MOLG, MOFP, the Decentralization Secretariat and local authorities).
19.   Some of the recommendations involving financial, personnel and administrative
matters would need to be studied further. For this, close collaboration would be needed
with other relevant Ministries and government agencies, including district-level local
authorities, as appropriate. The reform process itself needs to be properly managed. This
could be facilitated by staff of the Management Services Department of the MIPS (who
helped prepare the CSRP Report), assisted by other consultants, if required It would also
be useful to involve the affected staff through a program of orientation, education and
training geared to reducing their natural resistance to restructuring the MOH.
20.   Furthermore, to implement the Government's decentralization policy, a review of
present arrangements for disease control programs and curative services is essential, along
the lines proposed in the CSRP Report. Disease control programs, whether vertical or
integrated, need strong capabilities both at the central MOH and at district/field levels,
although the functions performed at each level are different. MOH's responsibility for
curative services, particularly in tertiary hospitals, should gradually be devolved to
autonomous Boards or NGOs, and this would require structural and staffing changes in
the MOH, as proposed in the CSRP report. In addition, a comprehensive effort is needed
on health financing issues; and a high level task force should be established urgently, as
recommended.
Implications for the District Health Services Project
21.   The DHS project is seeking major changes in the way health services are delivered;
and implementation will require use of approaches such as contracting out. There is
concern regarding the MOH's limited capacity to undertake major reforms encompassing



75                                Annex 5
Page 6 of 7
health financing, liberalization and decentralization, all at the same time but willingness to
work closely with the local authorities will be of considerable help. Third, it will be
difficult to improve the skills and motivation of undertrained and underpaid civil servants,
and undertake project activities through local administrations that are not familiar with
Bank procedures and are, in addition, likely to undergo a difficult transition to
decentralization.
22.   Presently, Government health workers are inadequately compensated. SAC II will
include a Civil Service Reform component, but it is doubtful that it would adequately
address the problem of health workers' salaries. A number of donors pay "top-ups" to
health workers. One question is whether IDA would finance contributions to the salaries
of health workers. Salaries are only 29% of the MOH Recurrent budget, while Medical
Stores are 41% of the Recurrent budget. If IDA were to finance non-wage expenditures
presently in the Recurrent budget, this would enable the Government to increase salaries
toward the living wage from its tax revenues. Another option would be to disburse
against services performed in such a way as to enable health workers to be more
adequately compensated.
23.   A related question is the levelness of the "playing field" between Government and
non governmental clinical services. At the present time, Government clinical facilities are
subsidized by the Government while NGO facilities are not. On the other hand, NGO
facilities have institutional autonomy, have been freer to collect revenues, and presumably
can reject non paying patients. The White paper on Health Policy reflects more evenness
in the policy environment for Government and NGO services, by encouraging Government
facilities to collect revenues while allowing subsidization of NGO services in some
circumstances. This should reduce the importance of the Government/non government
distinction. DHSP is aiming at a substantial influx of donor aid. Therefore, DHSP will
need to be sensitive to the distribution of subsidies between Government and NGO
services. (On the other hand, there are some donors, such as Italy, who give aid only to
NGOs.
24.   For the DHS project to be effectively implemented, it is imperative that the GOU
simultaneously and successfully implement its phased (nation-wide) Decentralization
Program and that the MOH speedily implement its Restructuring Program along the lines
proposed by the CSRP Report. An Action Plan for implementing the Health Policy
Reform Program, as outlined in the Policy Matrix attached to the Letter of Sector Policy
(LSP), includes some of the key measures required to be taken. However, the MOH has
not yet established its top-level Implementation Committee for effecting these reforms.
Similarly, progress on building the district-level capacity for undertaking the pilot-DHSP
activities in 3 districts has also been slow.
25.   Recent discussions with the Governmilent, hokN ever, indicate a keen interest and
high level of commitment, at the senior-most level of Government, to rapidly move
forward both with the content of the policy reform package and the
mechanisms/modalities for implementing it. The policy package (particularly the design of



76                               Annex 5
Page 7 of 7
the essential health services based on the BOD and cost effectiveness studies) and the
policy implementation mechanisms are proposed to be examined further during Appraisal.
26.   The DHS project includes a capacity building component, both for District Health
Administrations (48% of project costs) and for restructuring the MOH (11% of project
costs). This includes funds for training and selective computerization for budgeting,
accounting, and health information systems, and introduction of a Quality Assurance (QA)
program in the MOH. The project will also help strengthen the proposed Health Planning
Unit and Inspection Department. A capability to measure the National Burden of Disease
(in terms of Disability-Adjusted Life Years) in Uganda would also be established. MOH is
presently located in Entebbe, in scattered buildings. To improve MOH's internal
efficiency, and coordination with other ministries, it has been proposed to move the
restructured MOH to suitable facilities in Kampala. All of these activities would be
supported by this component of the project.
27.   Regarding the organizational arrangements for project implementation, the District
Medical Officers in Qualifying Districts would have principal responsibility for the
"Adequate Financing of Essential Health Services" component. Responsibility for
coordinating the implementation of all project components would be with a small Project
Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Health, headed by an experienced full-time
Coordinator, and staffed by specialists in project administration, procurement, and
accounting. The Project Coordination Unit would report to a Project Steering Committee
chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MOH. Local and international contracting would be
utilized to the maximum extent, as appropriate.



77                                    Annex 6
SUMMARY OF BURDEN OF DISEASE FOR UGANDA*
Disease              Relevant        Deaths                Discounted Life Years Lost
Population      Total   % of Total  Total        % of Total
AIDS                 over 15           22507       6.43      573923        6.49
CV                   over 30            8778       2.51      170549        1.93
DD                   under 5           25225       7.20      756245        8.55
Injury               all                2501       0.71       57918        0.65
Malaria              under 5           37837      10.81    1134367        12.82
Maternal             pregnant women    6669        1.90      177187        2.00
Measles              under 5           12612       3.60      378122        4.27
Nutrition (PCM)      under 5            7883       2.25      234277        2.65
Perinatal            total births      55017      15.71    1652699        18.68
Pneumonia            under 5           31531       9.01      945306       10.68
TB                   all                9503       2.71      242323        2.74
TOTAL: Target Diseases               220062       62.86    6322917        71.45
All Other Diseases    all             130043      37.14    2526745        28.55
Note: This table was prepared by the Government of Uganda in the Burden of Disease, Cost
Effectiveness, and Implications for Health Policy exercise, August 1994.



78                                     Annex 7
Page I of 6
HEALTH EXPENDITURES AND FINANCING
A. LEVEL, COMPOSITION, AND FINANCING OF HEALTH EXPENDITURES
1.    Private Expenditure on Health. The Integrated Household Survey (IHS) found
that, in 1992/93, average household expenditure on health care in Uganda was 2337
shillings per month (Table 7 1). On the basis of the estimated number of households in
Uganda (3 73 million), annual household expenditure on health care was about 105 billion
shillings.
Table 7. 1: Monthly Household Expenditure on Health Care, 1993/93
Expcnditurc Group     Expenditure on       Pcrcentage of
(shillings/month)     Health Carc       Total Expenditure
Zcro-I00.()000              1579                   4.0
I00.000-200.)00            7163                    5.7
Above 200.000              20128                   7.3
All Groups                  2337                   4.4
Source: Statistics Department, MFEP, Integrated Household Survey 1992-93.
2.    Expenditure on health care among the lowest expenditure group, accounting for
910% of households and 86% of persons, was only 1579 shillings/month. The percentage
of total household expenditure devoted to health care increased from 4.0% for the lowest
expenditure group to 7 3% for the highest expenditure group, demonstrating that
expenditure on health care has a positive income elasticity.
3.    About 64% o of household health expenditure was devoted to drugs, with
consultation fees and hospital/clinic charges accounting for most of the remainder. IHS
did not record how much of the expenditure was incurred at Government facilities and
how much at private facilities. However, it did find that among sick people seeking
treatment, 34%/ sought treatment from Government facilities while 66% sought treatment
from the private sector
4.    Government Expenditure on Health. Through fiscal year 1992/93, Central
Government funds were channeled to the health sector through three "votes" in the
Central Government budget: the Ministry of Health, Mulago Hospital (the national
teaching and referral hospital), and the Ministry of Local Government. Beginning in fiscal
year 1993/94, Central Government funds have additionally been channeled to the health
sector through District votes for the Decentralized Districts (Table 7.2). Central
Government expenditure on health, including external aid, was budgeted at 60 billion
Uganda shillings in 1992/93, and 91 billion shillings in 1993/94.



79
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
Table 7.2: Central Government Expenditure on Health
1992/93               1993/94           1994/95
Budgct     Actual     Budget      Actual     Budget
In millions of Shillings
Recurrent Expend. on Health          20956                  29510
MinistryofHealth                 15551       12075      14638                  17059
Mulago Hospital                   4855                   5595                   6917
MoLG                               550                    547
Decentralized districts                                  8730
Develop. Expend. on Health           39026                  62273
Ministry of Health                   29083                  41457
Mulago Hospital                       8546                  13991
MoLG                                  1397                   6825
Health - Total                       59982                  9(0783
As a Perccntage of Ccntral Government Expenditure
(excluding interest payments)
Health Recur./C.G. Recur.                     8.55                   9.28
Health Devt./C.G. Devt.                       9.97                  12.09
Health Total/C.G. Total                       9.42                  1(09(
As a perccntagc of GDP
C.G. Expenditure on Health                 1.54                   1 97
In constant prices ( 1991  = I (0)
C.G. Expenditure on Health                36419                  49045
5.     As can be seen from Table 7.2, health expenditure in the Development Estimates is
almost twice as large as health expenditure in the Recurrent Estimates. This reflects the
fact that all donor-financed expenditure is recorded in the Development budget, even
though most of it is devoted to recurrent inputs for delivering health services, such as
drugs and fuel, with only a minority of donor expenditure going to civil works and
equipment,
6.     In the past, the structure of the MOH Recurrent budget has been dominated by
inputs (such as the wage bill as a lump-sum under the "Headquarters" program, and drugs
under the former Central Medical Stores) rather than services, while the Development
budget is on a project-by-project basis which does not correspond to the program
structure in the Recurrent budget. Therefore, expenditures on preventive and curative



8()                                       Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
services, on specific "vertical" programs, have not been readily identifiable. In the
National Health Personnel Study (1991), the Ministry noted that:
Budget reforms are yet to be initiated within the MOH . . . There is no effective,
functionally-oriented or program budgeting ...
Recently, there has been some improvement in the budget structure. For example, with
the former Central Medical Stores having been succeeded in 1993 by the National Medical
Stores, a semi-autonomous, self-financing organization, from which public sector and
private sector health providers may make purchases, beginning in 1994/95 procurement of
drugs by Government hospitals is now shown under the "Hospitals" program.
7.    Analysis done for the World Bank's Uganda: Social Sectors report found that, in
1990/91, only 1 1% of Government expenditure in the health sector was for "community
health" or "public health" services (these are services whose benefits extend beyond an
individual), while 69% was for personal health services (63% curative, 6% preventive),
and 20% on training, research, and administration.
8.    The Wor ld Development Reeporl 1993: Investing ini Health publicized the concept
of "essential health services", i.e., those which are most cost-effective in averting the
burden of disease. In this context, it is useful to measure how much Government
expenditure is going to hospitals and how much to lower-level clinical facilities and public
health programs, for two reasons: (a) the more cost-effective services are delivered
primarily through the lower-level facilities and public health programs; (b) hospital
services have greater potential for cost recovery. An exercise analyzing the 1993/94
budget for the health sector has found that 52% of it is devoted to hospitals, 33% to
lower-level clinical facilities and public health programs, and 15% to other purposes
(training, research, and administration).
9.    Financing of Clinical Health Services. NGO facilities typically recover 80-90%
of costs through user charges. In the 1992 Budget Speech, it was announced that
Government hospitals would be allowed to operate private wings which would charge full
cost. At the local level, many health units, with the approval of their management
committees, have begun to charge fees. The authority of local administrations to charge
fees was formally recognized in the Local Governments Statute, 1993. A study in
Kabarole District found that revenues from user fees were used for supplies such as fuel
and soap, repairs to buildings and equipment, transportation, and staff allowances,
contributing to increased availability of health workers and reduced waiting time.
Interviewees generally expressed willingness to pay higher fees to obtain further
improvements in service. However, thus far recognized user charges have played only a
minor role in the financing of Government health services.
10.   Health insurance has not yet been developed in Uganda. Some employers provide
health services directly to their employees, and others have contracts with private
providers to offer services to their employees.



8                                       Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
11.   Total Health Expenditure. As can be seen from Table 7.3, total health
expenditure in Uganda was about $7.73 per capita, consisting of Government health
expenditure of $2.82 per capita, and household expenditure of about $4.91 per capita.
Considering that the cost of a minimum package of essential health services has been
estimated at $1 2 per capita in low-income countries, and that Uganda's health indicators
are worse than average among low-income countries, this is clearly inadequate.
Furthermore, health expenditure has been skewed toward curative treatment of mostly
preventable problems, with public health and preventive services seriously underfunded.
Table 7.3: Private and Government Expenditure on I lealth, 1992/93
Shillings   US$        US$         Perccntagc
(millions)  (millions)  per capita  of GDP
Household Expcnditurc             104604       87         4 91              2.69
Ccntral Govt Expenditure           59982       50         2,82              1.54
Total                             164586      137         7.73              4.23
Source: Tables 7 1 and 7.2.
B. MONITORING OF HEALTH EXPENDITURE AND FINANCING UNDER DHSP
12    As set out in the White Paper on Health Policy, and reflected in the DHSP Letter
of Sector Policy, the Government intends to mobilize more resources for the health sector,
both through the Central Government budget, and through additional financing
mechanisms. The Government also intends to reallocate its expenditure relatively toward
the most cost-effective public health and clinical interventions. Under DHSP,
implementation of these policies will be monitored at two levels: the national
(macro) level; and at the level of the project districts.
13.   Monitoring at the National (macro) level. Central Government expenditure is
budgeted to be about 16% of GDP in 1994/95 (Table 7.4). As set out in the
Government's Policy Framework Paper for 1994 , the Government is aiming at increasing
the domestic revenue effort from about 9% of GDP in 1994/95 to about I I% of GDP in
1996/97, through enactment of revenue-raising measures, and improved tax
administration. At the same time, the Government intends to reduce the budget deficit in
order to contain inflationary pressures while enhancing private sector access to bank
credit. Central Government expenditure is therefore expected to remain at about 16% of
GDP through 1996/97. With real GDP programmed to increase by 5.5% annually,
Central Government expenditure in real terms would also increase by about 5 5%
annually. In recent years, the share of Central Government expenditure devoted to the



82                                         Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
health sector has been on an increasing trend. The Government budget allocation to the
health sector will increase, in real per capita terms, each year over the medium-term.
14.   Considering that the local government (including district administrations) financial
year runs from October through September, the Government will prepare and provide to
IDA a report with relevant data on budgeted and recent actual Government expenditure
(Central Government and district administrations) in the health sector, no later than
November I of each year, beginning with November 1, 1995. This report will include the
distribution of expenditure among: (a) hospitals: (b) lower-level clinical facilities and
public health programs; and (c) other functions (training, research, and administration).
15.   In their district health plans, the objectives chosen by the districts for raising
revenues at the health unit level range from 7% to 25% of the direct costs of providing
services. ODA is financing a study for the Government on options, including user charges
and insurance, for health finance. The Government will develop and issue guidelines, by
October 1995, on the raising of revenues at the health unit level, addressing issues
including protection for the poor, subsidization of services with public health benefits, and
appropriate management practice. A system of quarterly financial and technical reports
prepared by the District Health Teams, and distributed to the District Resistance Councils
and the Ministry of Health, will be implemented nationwide no later than June 1996. As
part of monetization of benefits under the Civil Service Reform Program, free health care
for civil servants will be discontinued. The Govemment will experiment on a pilot basis
with capitation grants or voucher schemes for health financing. Drawing upon these
initiatives and experience with other financing options, the Government will issue a
comprehensive policy statement on health care financing, no later than June 1996.
16.   The level of the Project districts. In order to be eligible to participate in the
Project, district health administrations will need to have workplans, budgets, and cost
recovery policies acceptable to the Ministry of Health and to IDA. The system of
quarterly financial and technical reports will be piloted in the three SIDA-financed DHSP
pilot districts during 1994/95 and continued in the DHSP pilot districts during 1995/96.



83                                       Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
Table 7.4: Projection of Central Government Finance
1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97
Estimated   Program    Projected   Projected
In billions of Uganda shillings:
Revenue and Grants        651        685        819         941
Revenue               364         472        591        720
Grants                288         213        228        221
Total Expenditure         817        854        946        1051
Deficit                   165        168         127        111
GDP at Market Prices     4613       5344       5928        6589
As a percentage of GDP:
Revenuc and Grants        14.1        12.8       13.8       14.3
Revenue                 7.9        8.8       10.0       10.9
Grants                  6.2        4.0        3.8        3.4
Total Expenditure          17.7       16.0       16.0       16.0
Deficit                    3.6        3.1         2.1        1.7
Memorandum items:
GDP deflator
(1991=100)            185.1      202.7      212.9      223.5
Total Expenditure at
Constant Prices      441.0       421.0      444.0      470.0
Source: Policy Framework Paper for 1994/95 - 1996/97.



84                                  Annex 8
Page I of 3
SUPERVISION STRATEGY
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
(a)    The PCU will submit semi-annual reports of project monitoring data to IDA in
March and September of each year.
(b)   The PCU in the MOH will maintain up-to date project accounts and present
summary accounts to IDA every six months.
(c)   The audits of project accounts by the Auditor General or by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA will be made available to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year.
(d)   Each district will report semi-annually to the PIU on implementation, including
progress and delays.
(e)   By June 1, 1997, the MOH in consultation with the project Steering Committee
will prepare and provide to IDA for its approval a plan for carrying out a Mid-
Term Project Review by September 1997 in consultation with IDA. The MOH
will, with the assistance of the implementing units, carry out a Mid-Term Review
in accordance with the agreed plan. Thereafter, Government will promptly take all
actions recommended as a result of the review that are required to achieve project
objectives.
(f)    The PCU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank supervision
missions and for providing information required by missions.
(g)   Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings before departure will
normally be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the MOH.
Bank Supervision Inputs. It is estimated that regular supervision from Washington (to
review progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.) will require eight
staffweeks in the first year of the project and six weeks per year thereafter. The staff time
in the table that follows is in addition to this day-to-day supervision.
Donor Supervision Inputs. Several donors are co-financing this project. They will be
invited to actively participate in and contribute to supervision missions. It is estimated
donors will provide an additional 15 staffiweeks per year for supervision.



85
Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Bank Supervision Inputs into Key Activities
Approximate Dates   Expccted Skill            Activity              Staff Inputs
Requiremcnts             (in staffweeks)
04/1995             Mission Leader             Project Launch      8
Procurement Specialist
Discase Specialist
Managemcnt Specialist
Total FY1995 = 8
10/1995             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Economist
Disease Specialist
04/1996             Mission Leader             Supervision         6
Disbursement Specialist
Disease Specialist
Total FY1996 = 12
10/1996             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Procurcmcnt Specialist
Disease Specialist
03/1997             Mission Leader             Supervision         6
Disease Specialist
Management Specialist
Total FY1997= 12
09/1997             Mission Lcader             Mid-Term Review      12
Disease Specialist
Economist
Procurement Specialist
03/1998             Mission Leadcr             Supervision         6
Disease Specialist
Management Specialist
Total FY1998 = 18
09/1998             Mission Lcader            Supervision          4
Economist
03/1999             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
Total FY1999= 8
09/1999             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Management Specialist
03/2000             Mission Leader            Supervision          6
Management Specialist
Economist
Total FY2000= 10
09/2000             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Economist
03/2001             Mission Leader            Supervision          4
Disease Specialist
Total FY2001 = 8



86                                               Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Approximate Dates   Expected Skill              Activitv              Staff Inputs
Requirements               (in staffweeks)
09/2001              Mission Leader             Supervision           4
Economist
03/2002              Mission Leader             Supervision           4
Disease Specialist
Total FY2002 = 8
09/2002              Mission Leader             Project Completion/   6
Management Specialist      Review Mission
Economist
Total FY2003 = 6
Note: Economies of Scale will be realized bv supenrising this project jointly with the First Health and
Sexuall, Transmitted Infections Project.



87                                      Annex 9
OPERATIONAL PLAN
This Annex consists of two parts: (a) Example Process and Performance Indicators and (b)
expected development impact at the end of the project implementation period.
Example Process and Performance Indicators:
Measurement Area                   Monitoring Indicators                   Goal   Monitoring
(%)    Frequency
Key Tasks!           1. Fulfillment of key tasks/activities by planned starting
Activities:             date (%)
Specified for           - number of tasks/activities scheduled for initiation  xx
starting up each        within period;,
component               - % initiated within proposed starting date;      90
% progressing satisfactorily,                     80
2. Achievement of key tasks/activities by planned
completion date (%)                                       Quarterly
- number of key tasks/activities scheduled within  xx
period;-
- % completed as planned.                         80
3. Report explaining variances.                               Quarterly
4. Exception report on problems encountered and action        Monthly
taken or proposed.
Routine Tasks/       1. Achievement of routine tasks/activities by planned
Activities:             starting date (%)
Specified for           - number of routine tasks/activities scheduled for  xx
ongoing work in         initiation within period;
each component          - % initiated within proposed starting date;      80
% progressing satisfactorily.                     75
2. Achievement of key tasks/activities by planned
completion date (%)                                       Quarterly
- number of key tasks/activities scheduled within  xx
period;
- % completed as planned.                         75
3. Report explaining variances.                               Quarterly
4. Exception report on problems encountered and action        Monthly
taken or proposed.
IDA Credit           % of loan used compared to planned                            According
Execution               - utilized                                                to Schedule
- disbursed
Procurement          Achievement of procurement activities by planned starting     Quarterly
date (%)



88
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
PROCUREMENT PLAN
Project procurement will be performed on a scheduled basis as follows:
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE (US$ MILLION)
Project Element     Procurement   FY96  FY97  FY98   FY99  FY2000   Total
Frequency/Year
CIVIL WORKS:
Civil Works                 2                   4.0    4.0    3.0       1.2     12.2
GOODS:
Equipment/Materials/        2           2.0    4.0    5.0    4.0        2.6     17.6
Furniture
Medical Supplies/           2           1.0    1.5    1.5    1.5        0.7      6.2
Drugs
Vehicles                     1          1.4                                       1.4
CONSULTANCIES:
Local Training            N/A           3.0    3.0    3.0    3.0        2.2     14.2
Technical Assistance        2           0.4    0.5                               0.9
Research/Studies            2           0.5    1.5    1.5                        3.5
Monitoring/Evaluation       2           0.4    1.0    1.0    0.5        0.5      3.4
Supervision               N/A           0.5    1.1    1.1    0.8        0.6      4.1
MISCELLANEOUS:
Recurrent Costs           N/A           1.0    2.0    3.0    2.6        2.0     10.6
Total                                  11.2   18.6   20.1   15.4        9.8     75.1
The Borrower will submit updates to the Bank on a semi-annual basis. These updated
reports will monitor actual versus estimated procurement dates, US dollar totals by
supplier and aggregate US dollar totals by project element. The Borrower will indicate
causes of, and corrective actions to be taken, on all substantial variances and schedule
delays.



89                                       Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
OUTLINE OF PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES
Description                   Method          Timing
CIVIL WORKS:
(a)  Renovation of MOH                          ICB       1996
(b)  Renovation of 90 health centers/units in 10  LCB     1996-2000
districts
(c)  Construction of 10 new health centers in   LCB       1996-2000
Northern Uganda
GOODS:
(a)  Equipment: Hand pumps, water filtration   ICB*       1996-2000
units, pit latrines
(b)  Materials: Bed nets, chemical sprays, IEC  ICB*      1996-2000
materials
(c)  Furniture: for health centers/units       ICB*       1996-2000
(d)  Medical supplies/drugs                    ICB*       1996-2000
(e)  Vehicles: 4-wheel drive, motorcycles, combi  NBF     1996/1997
CONSULTANCIES:
(a) Local Training:
National:                                      Other      1996-2000
Appointment of consultants, workshops in
management, finance, administration,
personnel,
workshops in planning, monitoring and
evaluation,
workshops in program implementation
District:                                      Other      1996-2000
Pilot:
workshops in management, finance,
administration, personnel,
workshops in planning, monitoring and
evaluation,
workshops in program implementation,
workshops in essential package delivery
(b)  Technical Assistance
See Annex 13
*Note: or other procedures - LCB/Shopping as permitted under Table 3.6.



90
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
Description                    Method          Timing
(c)  Research/Studies                           Other      1996-2000
Appointment of consultant services;
Field Work;
Data Analysis;
Workshops to disseminate results;
Project Modification;
Workshops (these will be held both at
national and local levels)
(d)  Monitoring /Evaluation                     Other      1996-2000
Same as for Research/Studies
(e)  Supervision                                Other      1996-2000
Consultants and NGOs to supervise health
care delivery.
STANDARD TIME FOR BID PROCESSING
At negotiations IDA and the Government agreed on standard procurement times
(see Implementation Manual.)



9]
Annex I I
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
PROJECT STEERING COMMITTEE
Terms of Reference
I.    The Committee will act as the advisory body to all implementing agencies by:
monitoring project implementation,
addressing and seeking solution to problems, that cannot be resolved
through the normal lines of command; and
*     advising the P. S. on policies and other matters related to the project.
2.    Coordination will thus take place through the established mechanisms of the
Ministry of Health. The membership of the Project Steering Committee is limited but can
be expanded if necessary. Particularly, District Medical Officers and representatives from
District Health Teams will be invited on an ad hoc basis.
3.    The Committee meets four times per year, with additional meetings as required.
4.    Members
(a) Permanent Secretary, MOH
(b) Director General of Health Services
(c) Commissioner for Health Planning
(d) Director of Medical Services (Operations)
(e) Director of Medical Services (Support)
(f) General Manager, NMS
(g) Representative from Ministry of Local Government
(h) Representative from Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
(i) Representative from Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs
(j) Project Coordinator, Secretary



92
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
ESTIMATED IDA DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IDA Fiscal Year     Disbursement        Accumulated        Accumulated
and Quarter Ending    During Quarter     Disbursement      Disbursement %
---US$ thousand---
FY1995
Mar. 31, 1995                0                  0                  0
Jun. 30, 1995                0                  0                  0
FY1996
Sept. 30, 1995           1,350              1,350                  3
Dec. 31, 1995            1,350              2,700                  6
Mar. 31, 1996             450               3,150                  7
Jun. 30, 1996             450               3,600                  8
FY1997
Sept. 30, 1996            450               4,050                  9
Dec. 31, 1996             450               4,500                 10
Mar. 31, 1997            1,800              6,300                 14
Jun. 30, 1997            1,800              8,100                 18
FY1998
Sept. 30, 1997           1,800              9,900                 22
Dec. 31, 1997            1,800             11,700                 26
Mar. 31, 1998            1,800             13,500                 30
Jun. 30, 1998            1,800             15,300                 34
FY1999
Sept. 30, 1998           2,700             18,000                 40
Dec. 31, 1998            2,700             20,700                 46
Mar. 31, 1999            2,700             23,400                 52
Jun. 30, 1999            2,700             26,100                 58
FY2000
Sept. 30, 1999           2,700             28,800                 64
Dec. 31, 1999            2,700             31,500                 70
Mar. 31, 2000            1,800             33,300                 74
Jun. 30, 2000            1,800             35,100                 78



93
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
IDA Fiscal Year    Disbursement       Accumulated        Accumulated
and Quarter Ending    During Quarter   Disbursement      Disbursement %
---US$ thousand---
FY2001
Sept. 30, 2000          1,800            36,900                82
Dec. 31, 2000           1,800            38,700                86
Mar. 31, 2001            900             39,600                88
Jun, 31, 2001            900             40,500                90
FY2002
Sept. 30, 2001           900             41,400                92
Dec. 31, 2001            900             42,300                94
Mar. 31, 2002            900             43,200                96
Jun. 30, 2002            900             44,100                98
FY2003
Sept. 30, 2002           450             44,550                99
Dec. 31, 2002            450             45,000               100



4                               Annex 13
Technical Assistance Provided by the Project
Contractual Services
Staffmonth
1.    Contracts with Firms/Institutes
Single Package with One Firm
(a)   Monitoring and Evaluation
M & E Program Manager                                15
Beneficiary Assessment Specialist                     3
Computer Specialist                                  24
Statistician                                         24
Report Writer                                         6
(b)   Operational Research
Epidemiologist                                        12
Program Manager                                       12
Statistician                                          6
Report Writer                                         6
2.    Individuals
(a)   Project Management
Evaluation Specialist                                 6
Epidemiologist                                        6
MIS Specialist                                        6
Accountant                                            6



Annex 14
Page I of 5
Guidelines for NGO Participation
1. Objective. The objective is to ensure NGO participation in the design and
implementation of the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project. The
guidelines are a result of the current policy decision by the government to decentralize its
operations and transfer greater authority to the district level administration. Implications
in the health sector involve devolving the responsibility for implementing health related
activities to district level non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and community based
organizations (CBOs) at the -illnaoe lwViJ
Institutional Framework
2.    Elements of the framework. The institutional framework would comprise of the
following elements: coordination, selection, networking, technical support, financial
management, and monitoring and evaluation. The functions of the entities include:
3.    At the national level, the following entities would be instituted: a national Panel
to review and select NGO proposals based on attached criteria; NGO/CBO/Government
consultative meeting to discuss and decide priorities in health; NGO Coordination Officer
in the PCU of the Ministry of Health; a technical support/training agency to train and
support national NGOs and regional training institutes; and a monitoring and evaluation
agency to assess the functioning of the institutions at the national and district levels.
4.    At the district level, the following entities would be instituted: a district Panel in
the District Health Management Team office; NGO/CBO/District health authorities
consultative meeting to discuss and decide priorities in health, and technical support
agency (consultants).
Functions of the Institutions
5.    NGO/CBO/Government Consultative Meetings. NGO/CBO/Government
consultative meetings would be held at the national and district levels with the purpose of
bringing health NGOs under one umbrella to discuss issues. The meeting would perform
the following functions:
discussing and shortlisting names of individuals who would sit on the
national and district Panels;
documenting and disseminating information on government and NGO
activities in health, and
providing a forum for discussing national and district level priorities.



96
Annex 14
Page 2 of 5
6.    The meetings would be convened by the NGO Coordination Officer in the Ministry
of Health. In Uganda; the multiplicity of NGOs (around 800 registered NGOs) makes the
task of organizing meetings very difficult. One option could be to choose NGOs based on
their functions and nature of work, based on the attached criteria for NGO eligibility.
7.    National/District Panel. A Panel would be established at the national level to
perform the role of an autonomous selector of NGO/CBO proposals, based on the
attached criteria. The Panel would be selected by the Ministry of Health, based on the
shortlist recommended by a consultative meeting. At the district level, when necessary,
the District Health Management Team would coopt NGO/CBO representatives
recommended by the consultative meeting, to form the district level Panel. To ensure
impartiality, the 8-10 members would sit in their individual capacity.
8.    Coordinator. A NGO Coordination Officer would be appointed in the PCU of
the MOH and will perform the following functions:
-     identify NGOs and CBOs based on the attached criteria for NGO eligibility,
-     convene consultative meetings and represent government priorities at
discussions;
-     ensure general administrative support, procurement of supplies and
availability of these supplies to NGOs/CBOs; and
-     act as secretary to the Panel.
9.    Technical Support. Technical support to NGOs and CBOs in areas of financial
management and capacity building would be provided by a competitively selected NGO at
the national level, and several NGOs at the district level (one in each district). The Panel
would select them based on their strengths, past efforts at conducting training programs,
and building institutional capacity.
10.   District level NGO trainers/consultants would be periodically trained by the
national agency. The bulk of training and technical support to district NGOs/CBOs in the
formulation of proposals and implementation of the programs, would be provided by the
district level NGO trainers.
11.   Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be in two
areas:
M&E of the framework
M&E of individual NGO performance
12.   Both functions would be contracted out to an independent agency (either a local
social science research organization or a local NGO), recommended by the National Panel,
and appointed by the Ministry of Health. The agency would submit quarterly reports to



97
Annex 14
Page 3 of 5
the MOH. Donor agencies would receive these reports, as appropriate, through normal
channels. The reports would assess the following:
nature and effectiveness of operations of the framework (e.g. selection,
administration, and financial), and recommend corrective measures, if
necessary,
effectiveness of NGO performance in implementing programs; and
suggest emerging and future priorities for consideration by NGO programs.
13.   Evaluations would be conducted on an annual basis. Studies would also be
commissioned from universities or other independent bodies to assess: (a) whether
implementation of the mechanism had an impact; (b) whether the implementation of the
NGO proposals had a broad impact; and (c) whether specific NGO implemented programs
have been successful.
14.   Funding. The ability to provide funds in a timely manner is critical to the success
of the NGO/Government collaboration. To ensure success, funding mechanisms should
have minimum bureaucratic delays and speedy audit and disbursement of funds. Each
district would be allotted a sum of approximately $100,000 per year, to be reviewed and
revised annually based on the work program. The following procedures would be adopted
(see Chart 2):
IDA deposits money in the Special Accounts established by the
Government of Uganda,
The MOH would contract out the disbursement function to a competitively
selected commercial bank; and
The audit function would be contracted to a management consultancy firm.
Institutional Process
15.   At the village level, CBOs could form a group and send their representatives to
consultative meetings convened at the district level. The delegates at the meetings would
comprise of representatives of the district health management team, district level NGOs,
and representatives of the CBO group. They would discuss and identify areas of critical
importance in implementing the project in the district, and assess comparative advantages
of the government and NGOs on the one hand and between NGOs and CBOs on the
other. A representative of the district consultative meeting would be sent to the national
level consultative meeting. Activities and priorities in health which impinge on the project,
would be discussed from a national perspective.
16.   The government would invite proposals from NGOs/CBOs on project related
activities in health. NGOs and CBOs would prepare proposals and submit them to the
national and district panels. In the preparation of the proposals, technical support would



98
Annex 14
Page 4 of 5
be provided by the district trainers/consultants through seminars, workshops and
individual support.
17.   The Panels would select promising proposals, based on the attached criteria.
Decisions would be transmitted by the NGO Coordination Officer in MOH.
18.   The district trainers/consultants (after being trained by the national trainer) would
provide technical support in the design and implementation of the programs to the selected
NGOs. Issues and problems during implementation would be discussed at the district and
national consultative meetings.
19.   Funding arrangements would be the following:
The NGOs/CBOs would submit receipts directly to the commercial bank.
The bank would have them audited by the consultancy firm and then
disburse funds to the NGO.
Time limits would be established for the disbursement of funds, and
penalties would be imposed in case of delay. The funding mechanism
would be monitored closely by the M&E agency.
Benefits
20.   Benefits of the above structure are that coordination of activities in the health
sector by NGOs and government would be achieved, participation would be built up,
program efforts would be targeted, and outputs would be monitored. It would result in
decentralization of efforts to the grass root level and participation by that level in decisions
that affect it. The funding mechanism would ensure speedy delivery of funds, with
minimal bureaucratic delays, thereby ensuring continuity and sustainability of
implementation, and eventual success of the project.
Risks
21.   Political commitment to NGO participation and decentralization is critical to the
success of the mechanism. The entire structure has to be coordinated by the government.
If the NGO Coordination Officer in the PCU of MOH is not strong, the consultative
meetings, panels, etc, would not be able to function effectively. If the distribution system
between the MOH at the national level and the district level is not streamlined and
monitored, shortages and delays in providing supplies to NGOs/CBOs could jeopardize
implementation.
22.   Criteria for NGO Eligibility.
-     Structure of the organization;



99                                   Annex 14
Page 5 of 5
Legal status;
Profile of the organization and its activities;
Technical capacity of the NGO based on its previous work;
Organization and staffing;
Sources of support; and
Technical assessment of the NGO by district health officials and its record
working with those entitites.
Criteria for Evaluating NGO Proposals.
23.   Technical Criteria:
-     extent to which the proposal reflects national and project objectives;
-     linkages with local programs;
-     extent to which it addresses local needs; and
-     technical quality of proposed activities.
24.   Management and Financial Criteria:
administrative and managerial capacity;
acceptability and viability of cost proposal; and
co-financing potential.
25.   Epidemiological and Geographic Criteria:
geographic distribution of proposals (e.g. underserved areas will be given
greater weight);
degree to which activities would target the following: high incidence areas,
places with high rates of transmission, or areas at risk of having the
infection introduced, and
extent to which project would build partnership with other actors.



loo
Annex 15
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Cost Effectiveness
Part I: Intervention Costs;
Part II: Effectiveness of Interventions Life Years Saved;
Part III: Calculating the Burden of Disease.
2.    Indicators for MCH/FP
3.    MCH/FP/EPI Component of Uganda DHSP, September 1994
4.    Monitoring & Evaluation - Component: District Capacity Building
5.    HELP (Health Evaluation and Planning) Manual - Volume 3: The Health Unit
Data Base, March 1994
6.    Monitoring & Evaluation, June 1994
7.    Uganda: Burden of Disease, Cost Effectiveness, and Implications for Health
Policy, June-August 1994
8.    Training inQuality Assurance Programme:
- April 1994
- May 1994
9.    Estimated Costs and Demand for Essential Health Services in 1998/99
10.   A Proposal to the World Bank and SIDA by the Ministry of Health, Government
of Uganda, May 1994
11.   Report and Recommendations of the Health Policy Review Commission,
September 1987
12.   Statutes Supplement No. 8, December 1993
13.   Implementation Manual.






MAP SECTION






34,                    .         -          3,,                                          3A ,/                                                  IBRD 25052R
SUDAN
o"gf \o'ro<w_l\/~o    SUGANDA
--  xiTGUM          < _
)                                                   6 , C 
L                        ~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
0                    /\) . ~~~~~ARUA -                                                     KO-r,.r'- TI /t<,FALL5
7                              <~~~~~~~~~-NORTHERN      KOIOFALLS
Q~~AA                             -          -M'A'g            4                         *l   FERRIES
; ZAIRE    /     ~     0     0    -      -    >   e<  i to; \ 57                                                              PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
LNEB31- 1                                                                              ORFTO\
L  NEBBI*  -      --   -                          MOY DT?'            -     PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
-   -- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~UNSURFACED ROADS
-      3;)       ,                                -  f P RA ILRO A D S
-r  /                    ) g  vAPAC
/  .,~~~~~~~~~~~   ,,, ~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
t j/ 'h AS IN D I   -<!    <                    S Q\ O T I   f  i  . A                       D I S T R I C T   C A P I T A L S
HOIMA*. _KUMl                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
/                      *,\. ,  4   7' ' .,,,   ~    OoqS                             KAFSHOR A                   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
* tk        s      > -t > PALUSA I-  \  25tno      /REGION BOUNDARIES
-'SER   KBG   -KAU  {       1      MBAtR r   _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
W'IESTERN              KIBOGA         ULWRD             '        5TL<     
B?UNDkSUGYO             KIBALR                          UWERO )   '                        Z                         .D,- 
)  ORT    -"           <   MUBENDE                  ) E                     NDA5'                         30'AET(543
CE  ~                           -;>tcKENYA 
71         . (KASESE -    ',            - CENTRAL<  --  B ,-   KENA~>~-  
MASAKA          KALANGALA                                       2 '
BUSHENYI       - , *7    -    E  -]                                                          AX                             ND ;  /
RUUNGIRI-
Jeu'        NTh JKID                        -
469;  'NTUNGAMO   <>    >                      LAKE VICTORIA                I  '                              - 
   15 F  K B   > , X     O   0<^+,.  , ......................... ... .   . . .   . . . . .
t~~~~~~~~A~~ 
_-fl  7'   ' i d    E~    G'oS                                    TANZANIA                                        N
30  RWAN DA    -> NfJ                                                                                                            33'uny lerrlw&     E
_  _  _  |  *  xu  . CC@D2d K. Of $. ............ 3z _ 34 _ ' 30~~~~~~~~~~~DCDBER199



