                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                            Report No: 26049

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                (TF-20052; IDA-26790)

                                       ON A

                                LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 45 MILLION

                                      TO THE

                                     UGANDA

                                      FOR A

                             DISTRICT HEALTH PROJECT




                                    June 23, 2003




Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective )

                          Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling USh
                                  1 Ush = US$ 0.106
                                 US$ 1 = Ush 940.0
                            US$1.45924 = SDR 1
                                FISCAL YEAR
                               July 1    June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC        Average Incremental Cost
AIDS       Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
BOD-CE     Burden of Disease-Cost Effectiveness
CBOs       Community Base Organizations
CDC        Curriculum Development Centre
CHAP       Community Health and AIDS Project
CHW        Community Health Workers
CP         Cooperating Partners
DANIDA     Danish International Development Agency
DfiD       Department for International Development, United Kingdom
DHSP       District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
DHT        District Health Team
EHP        Essential Health Package
EPI        Expanded Program for Immunization
EU         European Union
FBOs       Faith Based Organizations
GoU        Government of Uganda
GPA        Global Program on AIDS
HMIS       Health Management Information System
HIV        Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
HIV/AIDS   Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
HSSP       Health Sector Support Project
IDA        International Development Association
IEC        Information Education and Communication
KABP       Knowledge, Attitudes, Beliefs and Practices
KfW        Kreditanstadt fur Wiederaufbau
M & E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MOH        Ministry of Health
NGO        Non Government Organization
NHP        National Health Policy
NMS        National Medical Stores
NRA        National Resistance Army
ODA        Overseas Development Administration (UK)
OPL        Operational Level
PAF        Project Action Funds
PCO        Project Coordination Office
PHC        Primary Health Care

PHCCG        Primary Health Care Conditional Grants
PLWHA        People Living With HIV/AIDS
PYAR         Person Years At Risk
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
SACII        Structure Admustment Credit II
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
STIP         Sexually Transmitted Infections Project
SWAp         Sector wide approach
UDHS         Uganda Demographic and Health Survey
UNFPA        United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF       United Nations Children Fund
UPDF         Uganda People Defense Forces
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
VCT          Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO          World Health Organization

                          Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo
              Country Manager/Director:       Judy O'Connor
               Sector Manager/Director:       Dzingai Mutumbuka
        Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Peter Okwero

                                           UGANDA
                                    District Health Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 16
8. Lessons Learned                                                               19
9. Partner Comments                                                              21
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             43
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             44
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             47
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            49
Annex 8. Comments from MoH and Borrower's Implementation Completion Report       50

Project ID: P002971                                                      Project Name: District Health Project
Team Leader: Peter Okwero                                                TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 23, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: District Health Project                                  L/C/TF Number: TF-20052; IDA-26790
   Country/Department: UGANDA                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Health (91%); Sub-national government administration (5%); Health
                            insurance (2%); Central government administration (2%)
                  Theme: Health system performance (P); Decentralization (S); Population and
                            reproductive health (S); Administrative and civil service reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    07/31/1993                                        Effective: 07/17/1995              07/17/1995
   Appraisal:    05/28/1994                                            MTR: 10/12/1998                10/12/1998
    Approval:    02/07/1995                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/MOH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:          Judy M. O'Connor                                    Francis Colaco
Sector Manager:            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                                Jacob Van Lutsenburg Mass
Team Leader at ICR:        Peter Okwero                                        V. Jagdish
ICR Primary Author(s): Ramesh Govindaraj and Peter
                           Okwero


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:U

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:H

               Bank Performance:U

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Both the outcome and borrower performance have been rated in the text as "Partially Satisfactory", but given the
choices above for performance ratings, Outcome must be rated as "Unsatisfactory" and Borrower Performance as
"Satisfactory".

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The District Health Services, Pilot and Demonstration Project (DHSP) was conceived at a time when
Uganda was just recovering from several years of conflict. The health services were in a state of
near-collapse, and were being only marginally maintained through donor-supported programs,
charitable/humanitarian organizations and religious missions. The Bank had initially proposed a
Community Health and AIDS Project (CHAP) as a follow up to the Bank-supported Uganda First Health
Project to address health policy issues and support efforts to contain the growing AIDS epidemic. Given the
seriousness of the AIDS crisis in Uganda, however, the original project was split into two projects: the
Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (STIP), which was to focus specifically on STD and HIV
interventions, and DHSP, which was to support a broad set of health sector reform initiatives, including the
rehabilitation of the health infrastructure in Uganda. The ICR Mission, however, could not ascertain the
precise reasons why the CHAP was conceived way back in 1989, when the First Health Project was still in
the early stages of implementation, and why DHSP took almost 4 years to prepare - although the need to
ensure adequate collaboration with the many partners represented in Uganda as well as the complicated
design of CHAP may have contributed.

The Government of Uganda's (GOU) White Paper on Health (1992) and Three Year Plan Frame
(1993­1996) laid the foundations for strengthening health services delivery in the country within the
broader government reform agenda. However, despite the existence of the White Paper and the Three Year
Plan, the Ministry of Health (MoH) did not have a specific health reform policy or strategy at the time
DHSP was prepared. The White Paper provided the basis for the new Health Policy that was prepared in
the late 1990s, while the Three Year Plan Frame provided an outline for the implementation of major policy
milestones - neither, however, was a full-fledged Health Sector Strategy. The main goals of the government
policy in the health sector were to: (a) mobilize additional resources to finance the health sector; (b)
reallocate resources towards preventive and promotive services; (c) promote public-private collaboration;
(d) strengthen planning, management, and coordination of services at various levels; (e) renovate and
consolidate existing facilities and services; and (f) promote community participation in the development and
management of health services. The design of DHSP also derived its concept of an essential package of
health services from the influential 1993 World Development Report: Investing in Health. At the same
time as these sectoral policies were being contemplated in Uganda, a number of government-wide reforms
were also underway, and the health sector reforms, including those supported by DHSP, had to recognize
and work within the confines of these broader reforms. Notable among these reforms were the devolution
of management of delivery of services, including health services, to district administrations under the
Decentralization Program; the Civil Service Reform program; and the overall economic liberalization ­ all
of which had major implications for DHSP, as discussed below.

The goal of DHSP was to test, on a pilot basis, and demonstrate the feasibility of delivering an essential
health services package to district populations within a prudent financial policy framework, and through an
integrated program of policy, institutional, and financial improvements, in order to improve efficiency and
equity in the provision of health services. The specific objectives were to: (a) Pilot and test new sector
policies, which will facilitate the implementation of essential health services; (b) Strengthen planning and
management capacity at district levels so that they are prepared to deliver essential health services; and (c)
Restructure the Ministry of Health and build its capacity to provide health policy leadership and to support
the governments policy of decentralization.

The objectives of the project were clear and consistent with the aspirations of government for the
development of the health sector, as outlined in the Government White Paper on Health (1992) and



                                                       - 2 -

Three-Year Plan Frame, 1993-1996. The project also took cognizance of the broad public sector reform
agenda of government; and focused on the major challenges facing the health sector. In addition, by design,
the project was to be implemented in phases, coinciding with the roll-out of the decentralization program,
such that only decentralized districts were incorporated into the project.

On the other hand, at the time of project design, Uganda's institutions ­ including the MoH - were still
weak, as the country was just recovering from years of civil strife. The project was widely perceived to
have been complex and demanding for the borrower, given the existing implementation capacities in
Uganda. In particular, the project seems to have overestimated the capacity of the MoH to coordinate the
project, even allowing for the capacity building activities proposed in the project. In the same vein, it
significantly underestimated the difficulties involved in implementing such a complex project through the
decentralized district administrations, as discussed later in the report.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives remained unchanged during the entire life of the project. Given the issues with regard to the
original design and objectives, and the rapid evolution over the life of the project in the environment in
which the project was implemented, discussed below, the ICR mission views the failure to change the
objectives or formally restructure the project, even at the time of the Mid-Term Review, as problematic.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had four original components namely:

(a)      Pilot Activities
(b)      Demonstration Activities
(c)      Capacity Building for District Health Administrations
(d)      Capacity Building and Restructuring for the Ministry of Health

Pilot Activities (US$ 8.2 million): In the Pilot Phase, identification and piloting of an Essential Health
Services Package was to be undertaken in three districts, during the first year. Besides, districts were to be
supported in undertaking the district level support services necessary for the successful delivery of the
essential health services package. The activities identified in the project's SAR included: (a) Establishing
new funding mechanisms for health services; (b) Contracting out repairs and maintenance services for
vehicles, equipment and buildings; (c) Collaborating with private providers (NGOs, CBOs) including
contracting specified health services from NGOs and private providers; (d) Identifying options for paying
health workers at all levels in terms of their productivity in delivering essential health services; (e) Testing
greater autonomy of Government health units through self governing trusts and similar mechanisms; (f)
Identifying initiatives to provide essential health package to workers of private firms; and (g) Implementing
community based mechanisms for promoting the sale of impregnated bed nets to encourage the use of pit
latrines through water and sanitation initiatives.

Demonstration Activities (US$ 19.1 million): Commencement of the demonstration phase was to be
contingent on the successful implementation of the pilot phase based on the following criteria: (a)
Achievement of at least 60% disbursement of the approved budget; (b) Timely submission of satisfactory
quarterly progress and financial reports; and (c) Satisfactory completion of scheduled management training
programs. Seven districts were to be added to the project during the Demonstration Phase, where findings
from the pilot phase were to be implemented widely and intensively. Implementation of demonstration
activities was to be reviewed periodically to inform the pace of expansion and replication of essential health
services and the necessary support services in each district.




                                                      - 3 -

Capacity Building for District Health Administrations (US$ 36.7 million): Project activities under this
component were to be implemented in a phased manner to achieve nationwide coverage, with the objective
of supporting institutional development of the District Health Teams to assume their newly acquired
responsibilities under the reforms. The project was to provide computers and office equipment for district
medical offices, and training to district health teams in a range of areas including planning, management,
accounting health information etc. Other proposed project activities included: supporting activities to
facilitate NGOs and other private health providers in providing preventive services especially in
underserved areas; testing greater autonomy for government health units through Self Governing Trusts;
supporting measures to improve the effectiveness of government training institutions; establishing new
health financing mechanisms; reviewing and updating the relevant statutes and regulations governing the
health sector; and strengthening the Public Health Directorate of the National Resistance Army (NRA).

Restructuring and Capacity Building for the Ministry of Health (US$ 8.0 million): Under this
component, the project was to support the MoH at the center in realigning its role to be compatible with the
decentralization policy and to strengthen the Ministry in order to provide the necessary
leadership/stewardship of the sector in the new policy environment. Besides, the project was to support the
MoH in formulating and implementing action plans for health services decentralization, and for
restructuring the Ministry.

The components were reasonably related to the project objectives, outlined the full scope of activities to
achieve the objectives; and took cognizance of the proposed institutional reforms both at the center and
districts ­ most notably, the Report of the Civil Service Reform Program on Restructuring the MoH and
the Action Plan for implementing the Health Policy Reform Program, from which a number of
recommendations were adopted by the project.

However, a review of the various initiatives proposed under the four components illustrates the enormity of
the task taken on by the project. It would seem unlikely, even under the best of circumstances, that one
could implement a pilot within one year (particularly the first year of a project) in a country recovering
from civil and political strife, evaluate it, and assimilate its lessons sufficiently to be able to extend it to the
demonstration districts in the second year. The pilot involved significant investments in infrastructure and
civil works, as well as the purchase of major equipment through international competitive bidding; whose
procurement requires a significant lead-time. It is therefore not surprising that the pilot phase and the
demonstration phase were ultimately merged without any clear outcomes emerging from the pilot, as the
criteria agreed to at the onset of the project for moving from pilot to demonstration were found to be
untenable.

Indeed, concerns regarding the capacity of the MoH to undertake a number of major reforms
simultaneously; the quality and motivation of the health workers at the district level; and the likely
transitional difficulties arising from the decentralization program were voiced by a number of stakeholders,
including the GOU, during the design phase. However, it was assumed by the project team that these
issues would be addressed through other parallel capacity building initiatives, such as the Structural
Adjustment Credit II (SACII), which included a component on the Civil Service Reform Program, and the
initiatives of the Decentralization Secretariat under the Ministry of Local Government. As it turned out,
the sheer number of reforms proposed in DHSP was to constrain the implementation of DHSP. These
issues are discussed in more detail below.

3.4 Revised Components:
The project components were not formally revised during the duration of the project. However, as noted,
the distinction between pilot and demonstration activities was abandoned during the supervision mission of


                                                       - 4 -

November 1996 (see Annex 1 for a listing of the various project activities).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Project concept, objectives and approach: The design of the project reflected and was widely seen to be
responsive to the existing situation in Uganda. The country was recovering from civil strife, and the health
services were run down and fragmented, relying on service delivery through vertical programs and/or
projects supported by various donors. The project's objectives, as already highlighted in Section 3.2 were
consistent with government's health priorities and reform agenda. The main challenge for the project was
to harmonize, rationalize and coordinate health services delivery within a sound and clear policy
framework.

In this, the project benefited from a baseline study that was required to provide information on (a) health
status and disease burden indicators; (b) expenditure on different health packages; and (c) managerial
capacity of districts. A health needs assessment was also carried out in all 13 pilot districts from October
1994 to September 1995. This assessment provided information about health care management capacity.
Furthermore, the preparation of the project involved, at all stages, a high level of participation by
representatives from government ministries and major donors in Uganda (DFID, USAID, DANIDA, SIDA,
KFW), some of whom (namely, SIDA and KFW) made commitments to co-finance the project, while
others (DFID and DANIDA supported parallel projects). These commendable efforts to ensure
collaboration and ownership are reflected in the design of DHSP, which focused on the need to bring all
key partners together to fund a common work program. Indeed, the project's emphasis on ensuring the
involvement of relevant partners might partly explain the long delay in project preparation.

Although the overall project concept was clear, the relevance of the pilot and demonstration components,
and their relationship to each other and to the ultimate project goals, was less so. It was also unclear how
the results - and the success or failure of the pilot and demonstration phases - would be measured, so that a
progression could be made to the next stage. It was also not clear how the pilot and demonstration phases
were different from each other. Furthermore, the modalities for implementation were far from explicit. In
response to the government's ambitious decentralization program, the project had a district-focus that
entailed a decentralization of fiscal and management responsibilities to the districts. However, this was
being undertaken at a time when the appropriate capacity and authority were still being established at
district level. The district-focus, while laudable, placed a management and budgetary strain beyond the
capacity of the districts to cope.

Unfortunately, the ICR mission was unable to ascertain exactly why DHSP was designed in the manner
that it was. That there were relatively few Bank projects with a similar design at the time, from which
lessons could be drawn, certainly made the task more challenging (comparable Health Sector Reform
Projects - e.g. in Kenya, Mozambique and Mexico - were only developed in the mid-1990s). There are
many questions one may ask, such as: (a) Did an expectation that other partners would jointly fund a
common program under CHAP encourage the Bank to design a "quasi program/project"?; (b) Was it
because of the major macroeconomic reforms (e.g. decentralization, civil service reform etc.) initiated by
that government that it was decided to initiate a health reform program?; (c) Was it that DHSP was seen as
a vehicle for initiating the health sector reform program or was it that DHSP was to support the MoH in
implementing the government-wide reforms?; and (d) Did the pressure on the Bank team to be responsive to
the obvious needs of the health sector in Uganda overtake the need for a more careful design of the project?
Unfortunately, however, the mission could not get convincing answers to these questions, and, therefore,
had to rely on educated guesses. On the available evidence, it would appear DHSP was designed to initiate
a health sector reform program and at the same time support the MoH implement other government-wide
reforms.



                                                       - 5 -

The absence of a health sector strategy until the late 1990s resulted in DHSP becoming the de-facto reform
agenda. While the project recognized that reform would entail activities beyond the health sector, no
measures were put to coordinate these initiatives. As such, their implementation was significantly
constrained. There is also the question of whether it was reasonable to assume that reforms outside the
health sector (even if they might further health reforms) could be undertaken successfully within a health
project, and whether the MoH had either the mandate or the capacity to coordinate these initiatives. Indeed,
the project, by design, allowed virtually any development activity to be supported and gave the districts the
flexibility to finance the activities within their plans that other partners did not particularly find acceptable.
However, the problem with DHSP was that several of these activities had neither been fully anticipated nor
adequately planned for at the design stage. Even the project staff were not always sure of how the project's
components and activities were supposed to come together and how they related to the overall objectives of
the project, although DHSP did support technical assistance (which certainly helped) to facilitate this
process. In the absence of a fully effective mechanism to coordinate funding, the project made funding
available for a diverse range of activities, even if the linkages between the activities were tenuous, and only
indirectly linked to the primary project objectives. In essence, the broad reach and scope of the project
meant that the project had great difficulty in establishing a clear focus.

There was also no monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework agreed upon at the design stage of DHSP;
nor were the key performance targets identified. The absence of specific indictors to measure the impact of
the project components meant that it was virtually impossible to estimate their success and the extent to
which they contributed to the project's objectives, despite the wide range of activities supported. Despite
several attempts, there was no consensus around an M&E framework during the entire life of the project ­
complicating its monitoring, making it difficult to keep it on track, and also making this implementation
completion review particularly challenging.

In fact, the evidence suggests that the project actually achieved a great deal; for example, many
stakeholders that the mission met stressed the key role played by DHSP in establishing a favorable
environment for a health sector SWAp in Uganda. However, these achievements were not necessarily
related to the project's goals, or brought about by design. Critics have even argued that the complexity of
the project and the confusion that it created may actually have triggered the move by the government and
the partners towards a more structured approach to competing priorities, which culminated in the SWAp.
While this might be too harsh a criticism, the fact remains that the laissez faire approach of the project was
at least as much of a weakness as a strength.

Project location: In addition to the Ministry of Health, various other entities ­ such as the Ministry of
Local Government, the Ministry of Finance, etc. - were considered as Project Executing Agencies, in view
of the decentralized implementation and major government-wide reform elements included in the project.
Both the Ministries of Finance and Local Government, however, were dropped, as it was decided that the
project was to be focused largely on the health sector and be the basis for health sector reform. Strong
leadership and participation from the Ministry of Health was, therefore, considered critical for the success
of the project. Besides, the Ministry of Health had prior experience with an IDA project, the First Health
Project, and this was considered to provide it a significant advantage for the coordination of DHSP.
Furthermore, some of the staff of the First Health Project was to form the nucleus of the Project
Coordination Office for the DHSP. While this reasoning on the part of the design team would seem
reasonable, the fact that the project included several activities that extended beyond the health sector and/or
were reliant on initiatives in other sectors would suggest that perhaps a joint, or at least a more coordinated,
implementation by the relevant Ministries might have improved the implementation of the project.
Unfortunately, however, the Project Steering Committee made up of relevant permanent secretaries failed


                                                       - 6 -

to successfully coordinate implementation across sectors.

Readiness for implementation: Within the context of the virtual breakdown of the health care system in
Uganda at the time and the resultant time constraints, the project may have been ready for implementation
at the time of entry. For example, by the time of project effectiveness, most key staff had also been put in
place. The First Health Project was in the final stages of completion and the preparation of DHSP had also
taken a long time. Pragmatism might have dictated that some anticipated inadequacies in the project design
be left to be evaluated and addressed during the supervision missions and mid-term review. However, more
could have been done at the time of project development to ease implementation and the disbursement of
funds. For example, the project's operational manuals had not been completed by the time of project
effectiveness, which significantly slowed the implementation of the project. An insistence on the
completion of these operational manuals by the Bank would, in all likelihood, have significantly speeded up
project implementation and disbursement. Similarly, adequate assessments of the procurement and
financial management systems (in addition to the creation of an M&E system), and the preparation of
appropriate documents to support these critical areas might have gone a long way in alleviating the
problems in implementation encountered later in the project.

Financial management and institutional capacity analysis: The project, by design, was to be
implemented under a decentralized arrangement. Although concerns were repeatedly expressed about
district capacity to implement the project, it was assumed these limitations would be addressed by other
initiatives supporting the government's overall decentralization program. It soon became apparent after
project effectiveness that capacity, especially at district level, was grossly inadequate in a number of areas
­ planning, financial management and procurement. Sufficient consideration had not been made to mitigate
the effect of secondary project accounts at district level to the project special account. These were to
undermine project implementation in the early years. Because of the particular weaknesses around district
financial management, the project had to undertake intensive training and support of district level
accounting staff, through TA recruited under SIDA. Some of these constraints could have been mitigated
if sufficient analysis had been undertaken at project design in the areas of financial management, civil
works and procurement, with decentralization in mind.

Risk assessment and sustainability: It should be acknowledged that some of the risks associated with
implementing reforms in the health sector were noted at the design stage. Thus, the risk of conservative
elements in the Ministry of Health blocking or slowing the reforms was specifically considered. It was also
realized that effective project implementation was contingent on successful implementation of the
Decentralization Program and Restructuring of the Ministry of Health, as outlined by the Civil Service
Reform Program. Certain measures were also initiated to mitigate the identified risks. For example, the
Road Map in the Action Plan for Implementing the Health Policy Reform Program included some of the
measures necessary, like the formation of a top level Implementation Committee to coordinate the reforms.
By project effectiveness, the Ministry of Health had appointed the top-level committee. This, together with
the presence of clear reform strategies and action plans under the decentralization and the civil service
reform programs were particularly useful at the beginning of the project in coordinating the various reforms
being supported.

But overall, the project grossly underestimated the political, institutional, and economic challenges involved
in the health sector reform process. The borrower's suggestion that greater caution be exercised in pushing
such major reforms through in the relatively short life-span of a project (evidently, the borrower had
envisioned a 24 year horizon for implementing these reforms) were given inadequate consideration. The
project also did not have effective safeguards to ensure that the potential risks would not hamper the
implementation of the project. While assurances were sought and received from the government to mitigate


                                                       - 7 -

possible risks and facilitate implementation, the project had no way of enforcing these initiatives.

Under the First Health Project, support was provided to pre-pilot implementation of key policy measures,
including the essential health services package, on the understanding that, during the pilot phase of DHSP,
these were to be better elaborated before the final articulation of the policy and reform strategy. However,
the preparation of the policy and strategy documents were significantly delayed, and the new Health Policy
and the Health Sector Strategy Plan were finalized only in 1999 and 2000, respectively. And, in the
interim, there was no clear strategy that could guide the reform process, and this significantly hampered the
sectoral reforms. In the absence of a policy, it was not clear to which of the many reforms being pursued
by donors within DHSP the government was committed.

Similarly, even at the design stage, serious concerns were expressed about the capacity of the MoH and the
district level institutions to: (a) cope with the reforms; (b) implement a broad range of health sector
reforms encompassing health financing, liberalization and decentralization; (c) motivate and improve the
skills of under-trained and underpaid civil servants; and (d) undertake project activities through local
administrations that were unfamiliar with donor procedures. It was assumed, however, that some of the
concerns would be addressed through concurrently implemented reform programs. Thus, for example,
SACII - which was supported by IDA - included Civil Service Reform, and provided for a compensation
reform program, to be followed by salary enhancement. However, the compensation reform has not been
completed to date, and this has had a negative impact on reform efforts in the health sector.

Overall, given the many limitations in the design and implementation of the project, the quality at entry
must be rated as unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project made significant contributions to Uganda's health sector (see Annex 2 for details). For
example, it introduced the concept of an essential health package, which later formed the basis of the
current National Health Policy (NHP) and Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP). It also facilitated
institutional policy changes in the health sector by supporting decentralization and restructuring of the
Ministry of Health, and supporting capacity building in planning and management, including financial
management and health management information systems, in the districts. DHSP was instrumental in
supporting operational studies and the review of a number of policies and programs including the
development of guidelines and strategy documents. It introduced and attempted to institutionalize the
concept of quality assurance in health service delivery, including the setting aside of specific funds for this
purpose. It introduced gender concerns into the policy debate in the health sector and attempted to
mainstream gender in health policy. In addition, the project initiated efforts to ensure sustainable health
care financing, and, at least partially, laid the groundwork for the health sector SWAp adopted in 2000. It
is important to note, however, that DHSP was intended to test alternative reform approaches as the basis
for reform, but, as discussed in this report, the absence of a clear government reform agenda (the While
Paper and Three Year Plan recognized the need for reform but did not specify a precise strategy) led to the
DHSP becoming the framework for reform in the health sector.

DHSP also supported activities in other sectors, many of which transcended the Ministry of Health's stated
mandate. Thus, for example, DHSP provided a platform around which difficult issues beyond the health
sector - such as salary arrears, manpower issues, financial management issues outside the health sector,
etc. ­ were taken on. While this may be viewed as a reflection of the project's flexibility, and its capacity
to adjust to the changing policy environment, the main problem was that there was no framework to



                                                       - 8 -

systematically tackle these issues. The forays into areas beyond the health sector also raise questions about
the appropriateness of using a traditional health sector project to further broad government-wide reform.

Furthermore, the projected improvements in service delivery and health outcomes were largely not realized
(see Annex 1 for Project Development Objective Indicators). With the exception of HIV prevalence and
contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) the other major program indicators either stagnated or deteriorated
(see Annex 1, which presents a matrix based on the development objectives and indicators used to track the
project in the Project Status Reports (PSR), and assesses the project's achievements in detail). There is
also no evidence to demonstrate that the Pilot and Demonstration districts had better health gains compared
to the other districts. There may be a number of explanations for this. The failure to realize gains in health
outcomes may be partly explained by the fact that the project foresaw a major part of its funding being
used for direct service delivery, but most of it was instead used for capacity building. Such a switch in
project focus is not - in itself - a problem. Indeed, it was perhaps understandable, given the clear failure at
project design and appraisal to adequately estimate the capacity constraints, and may even be interpreted as
demonstrating flexibility and responsiveness on the part of the project supervision teams. However, the
project was neither formally restructured, nor an explicit case made for changing the project's goals and
priorities, in a way that might suggest that the project team was responding deliberately to perceived
problems with the original design or to evolution in the policy environment. It is also likely that the
macroeconomic and sectoral reforms that were underway resulted in a serious dislocation of the health care
services, especially at the district level. Furthermore, the project's complexity and broad reform agenda
meant that it did not have the focus necessary to realize specific program improvements. The absence of
explicitly agreed outputs at the onset and failure to agree on them during project implementation almost
certainly contributed to this lack of focus. This was further complicated by the fact that there was no
effective internal mechanism to review program plans at the center to ensure prioritization,
complementarity, and synergy. As a result of all these factors:

l The pace of change in response to the reform initiatives was slow, and central-level programs tended to
    retain their verticality, especially if they had separate project funding.
l Interventions such as nutrition, that were critically needed to improve health outcomes, were largely not
    delivered under DHSP, while civil works more than doubled in size.
l Factors outside the project's control - such as the freeze on the hiring of health staff, and nonpayment
    of salaries and salary arrears ­ seriously undermined health worker performance.
l The implementation of project activities was fragmented and uncoordinated, e.g., facilities were
    constructed, but were not staffed or equipped adequately.
l While the project was able to facilitate a certain level of collaboration between the government and the
    NGO community, it had far less success in engaging the private for-profit sector, including private
    practitioners, in the health sector reform process, and particularly in delivery of an essential health
    package. Given the fact that over the project's life there was an observed increase in the use of private
    health services across all income levels (see Table 1 in Annex 1), this was a significant failing.

Finally, one of the anticipated gains from DHSP was that the identification and implementation of a
national essential health package, and the development of planning guidelines and technical support to
districts, would lead a more efficient sectoral planning and resource allocation, a rationalization of health
expenditures, and improved health outcomes. Indeed, between 1995 and 1999, district expenditure on EHP
in the pilot districts did uniformly increase, on average from 33% to 62% (see Table 4 in Annex 1). The
evidence also suggests that the districts were allocating an increasing share of their budgets for health.
Although, per capita expenditure on health remained low across all the districts, the failure of the Pilot and
Demonstration districts to perform better than other districts in terms of health indicators raises questions
about the efficiency of health sector allocations in the districts, even if the effectiveness of essential health


                                                        - 9 -

care services package in furthering efficiency is taken as a given.

Overall, given that it was not successful in achieving its major objectives of testing and demonstrating the
feasibility of delivering an essential health services package, but did make a contribution to policy-making
and planning, as well as capacity building at central and district level, and, arguably, paved the way for the
coming together of partners in a SWAp, the project's achievement is rated as partially satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Components 1 and 2. Pilot and Demonstration Activities:

The definition and implementation of an essential health services package was seen to be central for
Uganda to improve the effectiveness of the health services, and the concept was to be the guiding principle
behind all the major reforms in the sector. This was to have been done during the pilot phase, but as earlier
explained pilot and demonstration activities were merged and implemented without distinction. We,
therefore, discuss the two components together. As part of the two components, the project supported two
main activities: (a) Identification and piloting of Essential Health Services Package, and (b) District Level
Supporting Services (see Annexes 1 and 2 for details).

Identification and piloting of Essential Health Services Package: Notwithstanding the technical weaknesses
in the Burden of Disease-Cost Effectiveness (BOD-CE) approach, which have been discussed in several
articles in academic journals, the pilot districts were able to identify the major causes of the BOD through
the project. In addition, progress was made towards identifying cost-effective interventions and - much
later - introducing a rational approach to planning and budgeting linked to the BOD within the pilot
districts. The experience gained was incorporated in the planning guidelines, introduced to other districts,
and underpins the current NHP and HSSP. The project provided the financial resources for delivering the
EHP to the population in three, and later 16, pilot districts. It was out of this initiative that programs that
originally had little appeal or support, like malaria and nutrition, started featuring in the district plans.
However, many of these initiatives could only be implemented several years later than anticipated by
DHSP.

District Level Supporting Services for the delivery of the essential health package:

Establishment of new health financing mechanisms:

DHSP was instrumental in assessing and promoting establishment of new health financing schemes. A
majority of these schemes were not new, as they were already being implemented outside the project. Using
the Local Government Act, the project supported the districts to promote user fees in publicly provided
health facilities, develop guidelines for collection and management of user fees, and conduct a series of
training initiatives. Financing options other than user fees were found to be either not feasible within the
project life, or required major technical support, financing, and new legislation. Drug revolving funds were
abandoned because of fragmented and uncoordinated procurement and logistics management. The Social
Health Insurance report is still on the drawing table with limited options for implementation. Although a
few community prepayment schemes still operate, they too are likely to become nonviable, especially with
abolition of user fees. Finally, the establishment of health facility trusts is still awaiting enactment of
relevant legislation.

Even though the actual collections were small ­ there was less than 5% cost recovery - the decision to
concentrate on user fess was probably appropriate, as it provided a viable financing alternative for Uganda.
Secondly, the schemes provided resources that could be channeled to areas where government funding


                                                      - 10 -

could not be applied. Due to political and equity concerns, however, user fees were abolished in March
2001. The initiatives to provide an essential health package to workers of medium and large-scale private
firms was also abandoned because of the lack of a social health insurance program, despite the fact that a
majority of private firms were providing health services, either directly in the workplace, or through
arrangements with private facilities.

Other supporting services for the delivery of the essential health package:

Implementation of support services for the delivery of the essential health package were implemented only
on a limited scale. A significant and commendable exception was the rehabilitation and equipping of health
facilities and public hospitals, so as to increase their capacity to deliver the facility-based aspects of the
EHP. The health facilities were also encouraged to contract out the repair and maintenance of building,
equipment and vehicles, which became common practice in public hospitals. The limited support for
certain support services was, to some extent, understandable, as the initiatives were complex, went beyond
the mandate of the Ministry of Health, and/or required an existing legal and regulatory framework, such as
assessing options for paying workers, improving effectiveness of government health training schools, etc.
However, much more could have been done to, for example, promote impregnated bed nets (in addition to
its important role in negotiating a tax waiver on netting materials) and increase the public sector
collaboration with NGOs, CBOs, and the for-profit sector.

In sum, it is worth noting that DHSP was least successful in testing the policy initiatives that required the
involvement of other sectors, such as (a) testing greater autonomy of government units; (b) identifying
initiatives to provide EHP in private firms; (c) implementing community based mechanisms to promote the
sale of impregnated bednets and encourage the use of pit latrines through water and sanitation initiatives;
(d) initiating measures to improve training institutions; (e) reviewing and updating relevant statutes and
regulations governing the health sector; and (f) identifying options for health worker remuneration based on
productivity. On the contrary, the areas where DHSP was successful were the ones that were clearly
outlined in the White Paper and Three Plan Frame - again emphasizing the critical need for government
ownership and commitment of a sectoral reform strategy in order to ensure the success of the reform.

Overall, the implementation of these two components is rated as unsatisfactory.

Capacity Building for District Health Administrations

The project played a pivotal role in building district capacity and supporting the decentralization process in
the health sector. The support virtually covered the entire range of possible activities from district level
health planning and budgeting to formal (including in-service) training, rehabilitation and equipping of
health facilities, and the strengthening of support services, such as financial management and procurement.
Besides, newly created districts benefited from start-up packages (there were 39 districts at project design
and 56 at completion). Thus, with project support, health departments benefited from new vehicles and
office equipment, improved facilities following repair and renovation, direct funding for day-to-day
activities, and trained health workers ­ including, notably, accounts officers - a majority of whom still
remain in the districts or in the country. The support strengthened the capacity of the health departments in
the districts to better plan and manage the resources within the health sector, and implement the programs
under a decentralized arrangement. It was also noted the integration of project budget within the overall
district health budget agreed during a district conference ensured that resources were better aligned and
prioritized unlike the center where such a forum was nonfunctional.

However, the level of over-expenditure on capacity building activities, noted earlier, was unwarranted and


                                                       - 11 -

almost certainly undermined the delivery of services. Support to NGOs was also grossly reduced. The
expenditures towards capacity building should have been better managed and regulated in order to ensure
balanced expenditures at district level, value for money, and, ultimately, improvements in health outcomes.

Overall, the rating for this component is rated as only partially satisfactory.

Restructuring and Capacity Building for the MoH

Besides supporting the restructuring and reorganization of the Ministry of Health around its constitutional
mandate of policy formulation, national planning, development of standards and guidelines, and providing
technical support, the project was instrumental in supporting the Ministry of Health execute its new
mandate. Thus, the project supported (a) the formulation and development of the new Health Policy, the
Health Sector Strategic Plan, and the Nutrition and Food policy; (b) the revision of laws and regulations
governing the health sector; (c) the development of various technical, policy, and strategy documents,
including service standards and guidelines; and (d) the provision of technical support. Other major
contributions of the project included: support to the SWAp process to ensure better coordination of
investments in the health sector; reconstruction and relocation of the Ministry of Health headquarters from
Entebbe to a more central location in Kampala, in order to strengthen its internal coordination; and the
provision of procurement and logistic support. Virtually all the major departments in the Ministry
received, at one time or the other, funding from DHSP to improve their operations, especially during
support supervision. As noted, Quality Assurance was initiated with project support, and has since been
adopted as a Department within the Ministry.

Through the project, extensive support ­ admittedly with limited success - was also given to the Health
Planning and Quality Assurance Departments to improve intra-sectoral collaboration in planning,
budgeting, use of resources, and support supervision. The lack of clear priorities, and the absence of
appropriate fora to bring together the development partners and programs, were primarily responsible for
limiting the effectiveness of the project. However, the adoption of SWAp and the increasing resources in
the government budget have since brought about a major change in the intra-sectoral collaboration, with the
Health Planning Department taking on a more central role in coordination, and the major technical program
units becoming more amenable to collaboration. The project also prepared the leadership in the Ministry of
Health to look beyond the projects and programs, think more holistically about the sector, and provide
overall leadership. As a result, the Ministry is now in better position to lead the dialogue with development
partners, to negotiate with other arms of government, and to support districts and other implementing
entities.

Overall, the rating for this component is rated as mostly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A NPV/ERR was not calculated for the project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A FRR was not calculated for the project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Despite its many limitations, DHSP has enhanced the capacity of Uganda to use available human and
material resources for improved health care delivery. As a result of DHSP support, the health sector now
has a better capacity to absorb funds (see Annex 1). There has also been an improvement in the absorptive
capacity in the districts supported by DHSP. Thus, for example, the process indicator now in use in the



                                                    - 12 -

SWAp "Percentage of disbursed PHC conditional grants that are expended" was 50% in 1998, 55% in
2000/01, and 99% in 2001/02; the process indicator "Proportion of districts submitting completed HMIS
monthly returns on time" increased from 15.6% in 1998, to 52% in 2000/01. This is as a result of the
emphasis placed in DHSP on capacity building activities, such as the training of MoH and district staff and
private health providers through short- and long-term training. However, this training was costly (for
example, foreign training consumed nearly $1.7 million USD). Several district level staff was also lost to
attrition (e.g., to NGOs or the private sector), or moved on to other roles in the district, which undermined
the institutional development impact.

Overall, to a significant extent, the systems developed with project support provide a basis for building a
strong health sector, even if the development objectives of DHSP itself were not always realized. The
Project's institutional development impact is, therefore, rated as high.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
l Impact of HIV on Health Outcomes: HIV/AIDS had, and continues to have, a significant negative
     impact on mortality outcomes. Thus, life expectancy at birth was 54 in the late 1970s and 43 in 1995
     (UNAIDS 1998). Even the current malnutrition in Uganda has been attributed to HIV infections in
     women, who represent 70% of the agricultural workforce in Uganda, and also play a critical role in
     caring for PLWHA.

l Shortfalls in financing and politicized priority setting: Despite reservations expressed by the
     government and by the MoH, who envisioned the health sector reform process over a much longer time
     horizon, DHSP undertook an ambitious reform program in the limited 5-6 year time frame of the
     project. Furthermore, the design of the project was based on an expected financing of US$ 75.1
     million. Only US$ 66 million, however, was ultimately realized, because DANIDA and DFID decided
     to channel funds to the sector through parallel projects (whose objectives did not always mirror those of
     DHSP), rather than co-finance DHSP. As a result, some of the projected DHSP activities had to be
     scaled down. For example, a significant activity that was scaled down due to the shortfall in financing
     was the support that the project was to provide to NGOs. Another effect of the shortfall was that,
     during the last two years of the project, very little funding was made available to the districts as well as
     the center for the implementation of their work-plans.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Closure of Bank: In 1999, the International Credit Bank was closed down by the Central Bank of
     Uganda. All the SIDA Grant central project accounts and the accounts of some districts were held in
     the International Credit Bank. The government took a long time to repay the funds held by the bank
     and this affected the flow of funds from the SIDA Grant. Thus, affected districts could not access
     DHSP funds until the government had repaid the locked-up funds. Some procurement committed under
     SIDA Grant also experienced considerable delays.

l Poor Staffing: Districts, especially the new and remote ones, had inadequate staffing, and hence a low
     capacity to plan, implement, and account for funds. As noted, at project preparation, there were 39
     districts, while by project closure there were 56 districts; thus, almost 50% as many new districts were
     created during the life span of DHSP.

l Civil Service Reform: This proved to be a challenge, particularly at the district level. As a result of
     the reform spearheaded by Ministry of Public Service (MOPS), there was a ban on recruitment of staff.



                                                       - 13 -

   This left many health facilities in the hands of untrained workers who were unequal to the task of
   delivering the EHP.

l Decentralization: As a result of decentralization, health workers in districts were to be recruited and
   paid by the local governments. Some districts were unable to pay salaries for their health workers for
   as long as three years because of financial constraints. This affected project implementation. By 1998,
   many districts also showed a reluctance to allocate funds to PHC (Hutchinson 1998), regardless of
   revenue source. For example, between 1995 and 1996, Mukono District decreased the percentage of
   funds from user fees dedicated to improved services from 21% to 10% (although the presence of other
   donors meant that other funds were usually available). Kabale District, on the other hand, used 42% of
   user fee income for services in 1996 (HMIS, Mukono and Kabale).

l Counterpart Funding and Tax Issues: As a result of the government's financial constraints, its
   counterpart contribution was reduced from 10% to 5%. This ultimately affected the scope of the
   project and its financing. Even with a reduced requirement for counterpart funds, the government is far
   behind in the release of these funds. Many activities have, as a result, not been implemented fully. It
   should be noted that the MoH was, to some extent, constrained by having to pay taxes on imported
   goods based on the Ministry of finance (MoF) requirements. Due to delays in paying these taxes, the
   MoH also had to pay substantial interests and demurrage charges. Unpaid IDA funds borrowed to
   meet the counterpart obligations are a major issue at project closure.

l Failure to Retain Trained Staff: The PCO estimates the vast majority of district staff trained
    (especially Accounting Officers) left the health sector or the district, undermining continuity and
    representing a systemic loss. While many were redeployed in general district functions (e.g., as
    accountants), it still constrained the ability of the health sector to reach the targets set by DHSP.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
l Initial size of the special account: The initial size of the special account at US$ 750,000 was
   inadequate for project operations, considering the decentralized implementation of the project. The
   long accountability cycle associated with a decentralized project was not anticipated at the project
   design stage. However, with assistance from the Bank, which mounted a mission to specifically address
   this issue, this issue was satisfactorily resolved.

l Procurement delays: Delays were occasioned at various stages and by various agencies namely: by
   CTB that took very long to award tenders, by Treasury that delayed in paying taxes for goods after
   arrival in the country, by suppliers who in many cases never met their contractual obligations regarding
   delivery schedules. Other delays were due to slow identification of needs and their specifications,
   unfamiliar IDA procedures at the beginning of the project and lack of a comprehensive procurement
   plan. As a result of these delays, some items critical in the delivery of the EHP arrived in the country
   towards the end of the project.

l Cash flow Problems: After delays in executing some procurements and civil works, most major
   contracts matured after mid-term. This put pressure on the special account whose size had not taken
   into account this crowding of activities. As a result, work plans (central and districts) could not be
   promptly funded because all available funds were committed to contractual obligations for civil works
   and other procurements. Associated with this problem was the high threshold set for special
   commitments, which led to the payment of too many contracts from the special account, as they did not
   qualify for special commitment. Poor management of expenditure/disbursement records further
   exacerbated this and such the Special Account could never be replenished in time.


                                                       - 14 -

l Unplanned expenditures: A number of unplanned expenditures seriously undermined project
    implementation. The decision made during the Supervision Mission of 1998 to support all districts to
    deliver the EHP could not be implemented fully as funds had run out. Civil works almost doubled in
    size and technical assistance exceeded the budget by USD 2.5 million.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The total project costs, as estimated and planned at project inception, amounted to US$ 75.1 million. Most
of the project funds, however, had been disbursed prior to closing (see Annex for details). The planned
financing was as follows:

Source          Original Cost            Revised Cost
(US $)          (SAR)                    (1999)
IDA             45.00                    45.00
SIDA            7.00                     8.50
KfW             9.00                     9.00
ODA             2.20                     0.00
DANIDA          5.00                     0.00
GOU             6.90                     3.50
Total           75.10                    66.00

Although DANIDA (Denmark) and ODA (United Kingdom) initially indicated a willingness to co-fund the
project, no firm assurances were received from them in this regard. In the end, both donors decided to
channel their funding through separate parallel projects. Government counterpart funding was revised to
5% due to cash flow problems. Failure to secure all the funds anticipated at project design stage seriously
constrained project implementation in the last two years. These, however, could have been better managed,
since both DANIDA and ODA funding ended up financing the health sector program. In addition, there
was a serious shortfall in counterpart funding, which was further compounded by delayed releases.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Despite the problems with DHSP, and the resultant mixed outcomes, the sustainability of the project
activities ­ from the programmatic as well as the financial perspective - is rated as likely. This assessment
is based on the fact that the institutions in Uganda, helped by the DHSP, are now stronger and the donors
are working collaboratively with the GoU and each other, within an overall development framework.

Specifically, the factors favoring project sustainability are:

l Some of the key reforms and initiatives supported by the project have government ownership and have
    already been integrated in operations of the MoH (they are part of the HSSP). They include Quality
    Assurance, HMIS, infrastructure expansion, and private-public collaboration.
l The close collaboration between MoH and the development partners through the SWAp process around
    the new National Health Policy and Health Sector Strategic Plan provides a solid basis for
    programmatic and financial continuity.
l Further, the creation of the Poverty Action Fund, through which the PHC Conditional Grant operates,
    as well as the movement towards budget support by several development partners have provided
    sustained avenues for funding to the health sector.
l Considerable capacity building in terms of human resources development, systems development and



                                                      - 15 -

    infrastructure has been undertaken, both at the central and district levels.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no major transitional arrangements to regular operations required because most project activities
have already been integrated into the regular operations of MoH - largely through the SWAp and the
budget support arrangements.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, the Bank's performance was unsatisfactory at the identification and preparation phase.

On the positive side, the Bank built linkages with several development partners in supporting heath sector
development; some of whom funded the pre-investment studies, and later agreed to co-finance the project.
However, at the preparation phase, although the multidisciplinary preparation team identified the critical
heath sector issues, which were consistent with Government of Uganda's plans and priorities, the capacity
for bringing about change in the sector was grossly underestimated. Although the project provided a
detailed review and analyses of health and other related issues in the country, and drew on the experience of
the First Health project (that, incidentally, had specifically signaled the problems of embarking upon an
overly complex agenda), DHSP was an extremely complex project being implemented in a complex
political and socioeconomic environment.

While district implementation was phased, as discussed above, the main criterion of assessing the success
of the pilot - that of achieving at least a 60 % disbursement rate - was unrealistic and unlikely to be
achievable. No lead-time had been allowed for civil works to rehabilitate health facilities, which required
an assessment of the quantity and type of work to be undertaken. This assessment, which was itself
delayed, was only partly completed one-and-a half years into project time. In addition, it would not have
been possible to procure equipment and medical furniture from abroad in one year. There was also a delay
in getting the project started. A World Bank procurement specialist estimated that it would take between
23 and 29 months (2-3 years) to get equipment from a supplier abroad to destinations in Uganda. Although
health planning, progress reports, and financial reports were satisfactory, the key pilot activities for testing
different ways of delivering the essential health package had not begun. Furthermore, it had been assumed
in the project design that pilot districts had adequate capacity to carry out pilot activities. It, however, soon
became obvious that these districts, like the rest, lacked capacity, and required to be trained and prepared
for the pilot activities.

Orientation in procurement - particularly with regard to IDA regulations - is essential for project
implementation success. Procurement capacity assessment is essential and was not undertaken at the time
of project design. Similarly, in order to cut down the time lag between project approval and
implementation, the procurement plans and project implementation manuals should have been finalized by
the time of project approval; this did not occur with DHSP.

At appraisal, the Bank's performance was again unsatisfactory.

The Bank's appraisal mission included a team with a comprehensive skill mix. At appraisal, the
institutional arrangements at the center and in the districts, the phasing of project implementation, the role
of the NGOs, and the linkages with existing heath sector programs supported by other development
partners were further reviewed and agreed to with the government. These, particularly NGO participation,
were to prove useful later during project implementation. The relevant safeguard policies were discussed


                                                      - 16 -

and agreed upon with the government, including the actions the government needed to take to ensure
successful project implementation. However, the institutional capacity assessment - including assessment
of the procurement capacity - was never appropriately assessed at appraisal, and the complex design, which
lacked focus, was not fully appreciated as problematic.

There was also an understanding that as "lender of last resort," IDA disbursement categories would be
adjusted cover gaps in grant support. However, the project documents and agreements did not adequately
spell out the "rules of the game" for this process -- including a policy framework and agreement about
priority setting so that the funding would be used for high rather than low priority needs not funded by
other CPs. The concept of the Bank being the "lender of last resort" can only be sensibly interpreted and
applied when there is a prioritized and joint expenditure program, based on jointly agreed upon strategies
and action plans. The use of this concept in other contexts can lead to confusion and misunderstanding,
and can potentially severely constrain the effective implementation of Bank-supported projects.

7.2 Supervision:
While the Bank met its formal supervision requirement of twice a year during project implementation, and
the IDA Team was able to develop good rapport and working relations with the government team, there
were persistent implementation constraints in the areas of procurement, logistics, disbursement, district
capacity, human resources, and monitoring and evaluation, especially in the early stages of implementation.
A viable and effective monitoring and evaluation framework that is mutually agreed upon at the time of
project preparation is essential for the effective supervision, implementation and evaluation of a project.
This was perhaps the most overlooked area at both project design and was not effectively addressed during
supervision. The monitoring of the project was negatively affected by the failure, due partly to the lack of
consensus at a conceptual level, in resolving this vital issue, despite several attempts. This was raised as a
concern by the Acting Country Director early in 2002 who noted that "data on access to services is at
present poor, and what data exists shows that increased utilization of services has been mixed. A
hard-nosed assessment is needed on whether the data supports the conclusion that the objectives have
indeed been achieved." This was reiterated in the next PSR by both the sector manager and country
program manager who noted that "the issues with regard to M+E and sustainability do not appear to have
been fully resolved...[and] a high quality evaluation [will be needed to] support the team's assessment of
"Satisfactory" for project outcome. Greater proactivity and more persistent follow up on these issues on
the part of the Bank might have significantly mitigated these constraints. The evidence also suggests that
the persistence of constraints to project implementation, even when they were appropriately identified and
reported on (procurement, disbursement etc.) didn't trigger support or action by senior management, be it
in the Bank or within government.

In view of major flaws in project design that were increasingly apparent (and were noted several times by
supervision missions), one would have expected the Bank and the government to seriously consider
restructuring the project in mid-stream, especially since two project components were merged, and the
project in its latter half, was increasingly focused on the implementation of the Health Sub-Districts
concept and on supporting the Ministry of Health in its move towards a SWAp approach in the sector. The
ICR team could not find a persuasive answer as why such a formal restructuring was not undertaken.
While, evidently, a review team had decided - based on the evidence available at the time - that a
restructuring was not warranted, the ICR did not find any documentation either documenting or justifying
this decision. In the absence of evidence that there was a compelling case for not restructuring despite the
identified design flaws and changes in the project environment, the ICR team is forced to conclude that the
failure to restructure was a miscalculation on the part of the supervision teams.

Over time, however, the supervision improved considerably. The supervision missions involved



                                                      - 17 -

comprehensive and competent teams, and the participation of several partners, thereby ensuring adequate
support to the PCO and other implementers. Indeed, the supervision teams need to be commended for their
hard work and the support that they provided to the GoU in the latter half of the project in difficult
circumstances, which were not helped by the complicated and overly ambitious project design. In the last
two years of the project, the recruitment of a health specialist in the country office also ensured continuous
support to the PCO and improved the quality of supervision. Furthermore, several of the programs
supported by the project also became part of the joint GoU-Donor Joint reviews of the health sector
towards the end of the project, which helped in their supervision. Accordingly, in 1998, project
management was shifted from an unsatisfactory to a satisfactory rating (The Country Portfolio
Performance Review rated this project unsatisfactory until 1998, based on persistent problems with
disbursements and counterpart funds, and the delays due to the non-streamlined World Bank procedures
and the size of the special accounts). It may well be that, had the project been restructured in an
appropriate and timely manner, that the intense supervision might have yielded greater dividends in terms of
outcomes.

Overall, the Bank's supervision was only unsatisfactory initially and satisfactory in the later stages.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Given the unsatisfactory performance of the Bank at project identification, preparation, appraisal and for
part of the supervision, and despite the observed improvement in project supervision in the latter half of the
project, the Bank's overall performance must be rated as unsatisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
 The Borrower's performance in preparation is rated as satisfactory. During preparation, the Borrower
 provided the necessary leadership and support to the Bank that facilitated project development. The
 availability of the health policy and plan, 1993-1996 and the White Paper on Health, developed with active
 participation of stakeholders, were especially beneficial. The Borrower facilitated wide participation of
 stakeholders in preparation including the development partners. Because of this, the government was able
 to raise US$ 17.4 million from other donors to co-finance the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The government's overall performance is rated as marginally satisfactory. Over the life of the project, the
government maintained its leadership and commitment to heath care delivery and overall heath sector
reform. As mentioned above, this has not yet been translated into improved health outcomes, but a base
has certainly been built upon which further consolidation can occur. The issue of counterpart funding not
being provided, as agreed, has become a systemic feature of projects in Uganda, and needs to be addressed
in a systematic fashion. The issue of the taxes imposed by government on project inputs created a serious
constraint to operations. Perhaps most importantly, several fiduciary problems associated with
implementation of project, including in procurement and financial management, persisted for much of the
project, despite considerable support from the Bank supervision teams.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency, i.e. the Ministry of Health, is rated as partially satisfactory.
The competent leadership from the MoH and the PCO, who were saddled with a complex project, boosted
the implementation of project activities, including the compilation and preparation of timely and
comprehensive reports. While there were substantial delays with procurement and disbursement in the
early stages of the project implementation, once the PCO had familiarized themselves with the IDA
procedures, the situation improved (although some problems persisted), resulting in enhanced disbursement



                                                     - 18 -

and smoother project implementation. This, however, was only achieved through the considerable and very
labor-intensive support provided to the PCO by the Bank supervision teams. One lesson learned is that the
core project management team needs to be put in place before project effectiveness for faster project
implementation. Also, due in part to the project's complexity and the lack of a monitoring framework, the
budget required for the PCO was triple the SAR's estimate. Despite these problems and delays, which
were compounded by the closure of the bank where the project held accounts, the project closed on
schedule on December 31, 2002. There are also adequate arrangements in place for sustainability and a
smooth transition to SWAp/budget support arrangements, through which the Health Sector Strategic Plan
is being implemented.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is assessed as partially satisfactory.

7.8     Partner Performance
The project was co-funded by the Government of Sweden through SIDA and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany through KfW.

SIDA: The performance of SIDA is rated as satisfactory. SIDA provided three technical advisers who
were very instrumental in the implementation of the project and overall reform of the health sector. SIDA
promptly responded to all issues raised during implementation. The TA on Financial Management was
highly regarded and considered to be invaluable to the implementation of DHSP by the government as well
as by the other development partners.

KfW: The performance of KfW is also rated as satisfactory. KfW provided technical support and was
prompt in releasing funds and responding to issues raised.

8. Lessons Learned

l Impact of Decentralization: DHSP was implemented at a time when Uganda was just recovering
    from conflict and internal strife, and furthermore had embarked on an ambitious decentralization
    agenda that sought to devolve the responsibility for the planning and implementation of essential public
    services, including health, to district administrations. Such devolution of power presents several
    unique challenges for the design and implementation of Bank supported sectoral projects, that need to
    be recognized and effectively managed, but which were underestimated by DHSP. These challenges
    include, inter alia: (a) Building and sustaining capacity in the decentralized entities, including ensuring
    adequate support from the center; (b) Ensuring an equitable distribution of resources ­ financial,
    technical and human ­ across decentralized units, and minimizing potential conflicts with vertical
    programs implemented by the center; (c) Ensuring that the decentralized decision making on the
    allocation of resources across various sectors by district administrations does not compromise the
    channeling of funds intended for health to the sector (as was the case prior to the initiation of
    conditional grants during project implementation by the central government in Uganda.); (d) Ensuring
    that the size of the special account should be carefully determined to take into account the longer
    replenishment cycle associated with a decentralized project; and (e) Determining how much
    procurement should be decentralized to ensure economies of scale.

l Project vs. Program Support and a Multisectoral Context: DHSP was conceived and designed as a
    traditional project, but ended up providing broad programmatic support and gradually developing a
    larger group of development partners. The absence of a clear government sectoral policy compounded
    the situation. This raises substantial questions about the use of a traditional project as the instrument



                                                     - 19 -

  for major sectoral and institutional reform. Furthermore, as the lender of last resort, IDA/DHSP ended
  up supporting a large number of initiatives that extended well beyond the objectives of the project, and
  even the mandate of the MoH. As noted, this raises serious questions about the appropriateness and
  effectiveness of using a health sector reform instrument to bring about reform in other sectors.

l Politicized Environment: A public sector project that has a major focus on reforms is very sensitive
  to the political environment. An assessment of the political climate is vital in the design and
  implementation of such a project like DHSP. However, these were underestimated. To be fully
  effective, reform efforts within the health sector need to explicitly recognize the politics and political
  economy of the sector (such as the viability of user fees, hospital autonomy, the geographical
  distribution of health facilities, the impact of the emphasis on the sub-district); the potential constraints
  imposed by other ongoing reforms (such as civil service reforms and the freeze on the hiring of health
  workers); the need to coordinate health sector reform efforts with initiatives in other sectors (such as
  initiatives in agriculture and education); the need for a proper sequencing of various reform initiatives
  and investments within the sector and across sectors; the need for early and extensive consultations
  with relevant stakeholders in order to ensure wide ownership; and the time required for complex reform
  initiatives to produce tangible outcomes. DHSP failed to anticipate and plan for such variables, and
  thereby failed to realize its full potential.

l Accountability of Civil Society Partners: DHSP worked with decentralized and community-based
  organizations, which was a strong achievement. However, NGOs were constrained by having to work
  through Local Tender Boards. In addition, measures of accountability that responded better to local
  capacity, and that stimulated an appropriate focus on outcomes instead of inputs, needed to be
  developed. Such measures of accountability should be identified and agreed between the Bank and
  Borrower during the design of operations.

l Special Accounts and Banking Issues: Projects such as DHSP that work with multiple implementing
  partners, such as districts, sub-district entities, and CBOs, FBOs, and NGOs need to make multiple
  advances to those implementing partners and thus require correspondingly larger Special Accounts.
  The criteria for the selection of commercial banks for the location of Special Accounts should also be
  scrutinized, revised if necessary, and strictly adhered to. Even with limited capacity in terms of
  logistics and human resources, absorption of funds improves when donor/ project regulations are
  relaxed. This was the case when the imprest system for releasing funds to districts was adopted.

l Effective Monitoring and Evaluation and Procurement/Financial Management Capacity: A viable
  and effective monitoring and evaluation framework that is mutually agreed upon at the time of project
  preparation is essential for effective supervision, implementation, and evaluation of a project. Without
  such a system, it is virtually impossible to track the performance and impact of a project and keep the
  project on track. By the same token, detailed assessments of procurement and financial management,
  supplemented by ongoing support, are critical ingredients in effective project implementation.

l Improved Donor Co-ordination and Need for Further Investments and Consolidation: Effective
  donor coordination is vital for the improved performance of the health sector. During the life of DHSP,
  the multiple planning and reporting arrangements of the different donors (who were implementing
  vertical programs) significantly burdened the district administrations. However, DHSP contributed to
  increasing donor coordination, and, to some extent, helped to lay the foundation for the SWAp in the
  health sector. While a base has been built in Uganda, the intended improvements in health service
  delivery and outcomes need more focus, and continuing support and investment by the donors. The
  government also needs to take increasing responsibility for financing the health sector. The competing


                                                      - 20 -

    priorities of the government and the donors have, in the past, undermined the potential for positive
    change in the health sector. Further consolidation is, therefore, needed to realize the desired health
    outcomes in Uganda.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Refer to Annex 8 for Detailed Borrower's Comments on draft IDA ICR and for the Borrower's Evaluation
Report.

1.      Comments of the Borrower on the ICR

1.1     The ICR prepared by IDA displays a good understanding of the design and scope of the project and
the environment in which it was implemented.

1.2     We would like however, to make the following observations on some of the assessments made in
the ICR.
(a) Quality at Entry. In our assessment, the quality at entry was marginally satisfactory.

(b) Achievement of objectives and out puts. Our assessment is that given the complex design of the project
and the challenging environment in which it was implemented, its overall achievement was satisfactory.

2.      BANK AND PARTNER PERFORMANCE

Bank

2 1 Lending

The Bank performance was satisfactory at identification and preparation phases.
At appraisal, the Bank's performance was satisfactory.

2.2 Supervision

The Bank's performance was satisfactory as the Bank met its formal supervision requirement of twice a
year during project implementation and was able to develop good rapport and working relations with the
government team.

2.3 Overall Bank performance

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Partner Performance

The project was co-funded by the Government of Sweden through SIDA and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany through KfW.

(a)     SIDA: The performance of SIDA is rated as very satisfactory.
(b)     KfW: The performance of KfW is also rated as very satisfactory.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                    - 21 -

Co-financiers comments were not completed by the time of publication.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                               - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
 Increased % of population accessing a basic
package of services in pilot and
demonstration districts.




Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                        Projected in last PSR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Expand health facilities providing basic health
services through physical rehabilitation.



Increased absorption capacity by districts of
budgeted funds in annual work plans.


Expansion of pilot of the essential package of
services from 6 to sixteen.


Relocate and restructure the Ministry of
Health.


Conduct Studies to support reform.
Identify and pilot new financing mechanisms.
Training for district health team members.
Provision of medical and office equipment to
districts. All districts provided with basic
office equipment and vehicle.
Availability of guidelines for technical
programs.

1End of project
Annex 1 - Project Development Objective Indicators
Indicator          Baseline 1995            End of Project             Comments                   Rating
                                            2000-2002
Reduced            MMR 527/100,000          MMR 504/100,000            MMR drop not               Not achieved
mortality          (UDHS 95)                (UDHS 2000/01)             statistically significant, (except drops
and                No change in adult                                  and reflects an earlier    in HIV
morbidity          mortality rate           Adult deaths 9 female      period.                    prevalence (see
from main                                   deaths and 10 male                                    STIP ICR).
causes in          Nutrition                deaths/1000 (UDHS          Malaria still remains
BOD                38% children <4          2000/01)                   the number cause of
                   stunted                                             morbidity and mortality
                   5% children<4            39% children<4 stunted     (no data).
                   wasted                   4% children<4 wasted
                                            28% children 6-59          AIDS is still the
                                            months Vitamin A           leading cause of death
                                            deficient                  among 15-49 year olds
                                            65% children 6-59          ­ 50% of annual adult
                                            months anemic              mortality and 12%
                                            30% women 15-49            annual deaths overall
                                            anemic (UDHS 2000)         (CHDC and UNICEF




                                                              - 23 -

                                                   1999).

                                                   Malnutrition and
                                                   micronutrient
                                                   deficiency also key:
                                                   50% of pregnant
                                                   women are anemic and
                                                   30% of maternal deaths
                                                   are attributable to
                                                   anemia (Pyle et al,
                                                   2000 quoting WHO
                                                   1998 prevalence data.
Reduced  IMR 81/1000 live    IMR 88/1000           Reflects a period 10    Not achieved
IMR and  births              <5MR 152/1000         years previous
<5MR     <5MR 147/1000                             40% of <5MR is
         (UDHS 95)                                 related to malnutrition
                                                   (UNICEF, and Pyle at
                                                   al 2000.)

                                                   10% of teens and
                                                   non-pregnant and
                                                   lactating mothers have
                                                   low body mass index
                                                   (DHS, Pyle et al 2000)

                                                   Vitamin A deficiency
                                                   may contribute up to
                                                   25% of child mortality
                                                   (Beaton et al, 1993) ­
                                                   this is now being
                                                   addressed within the
                                                   EPI.
Lower TFR 6.9 (UDHS 95 using 6.9 UDHS 2000/01      Was 7.3 1988 but now    Not achieved
          92/94 data)                              plateaued




                                             - 24 -

Increased % of      Only 20% of       By 2000 42 units had      No monitoring             Mixed (see also
population          population        been newly constructed framework for district       table 1 below)
accessing a basic   accessing the     and 98 rehabilitated.     comparisons, and pilot
package of services basic package                               and demonstration
in pilot and        (MOH baseline                               phases merged.
demonstration       estimate)
districts           MCH/FP/EPI        CPR all methods 23%
                    CPR all           UDHS 2000/01
                    methods 15%
                    1995 UDHS
                    ANC 90%           ANC 90% but only just
                                      over 50% received iron
                    Facility birth    tablets.
                    35.4%             Facility birth 37%
                    Caesarean
                    sections in       Caesarean sections in
                    preceding 5       preceding 5 years 2.5%
                    years 2.6% of     of births 2000 UDHS
                    births 95 UDHS
                    Children <4
                    with diarrheal    Children <5 with
                    disease in 2      diarrheal disease in 2
                    weeks before      weeks before survey
                    survey taken to   taken to a health         Childhood disease
                    a health facility facility 44.9%            indicators between DHS
                    55.1%                                       1995 and 2000 shifted
                    Children <4       Children <4 with ARI      age from <4 to <5 so not
                    with ARI in       in previous 2 weeks       completely comparable.
                    previous 2        before survey taken to a
                    weeks before      health facility 64.7%
                    survey taken to
                    a health facility
                    61.4%
                    All EPI 12-23     All EPI 12-23 months
                    months 47.4%      36.7%
                    (increased from   (Received by 12 months
                    31% 1988)         as required by WHO
                    Malaria           28.5%)                    EPI program lost some
                    No obvious                                  focused management
                    baseline          Only 13% households       attention in shift from
                                      have mosquito nets        vertical program, as well
                                      (UDHS 2000), 8%           as performance
                                      children <5 and 7% of     incentives such as
                                      women of reproductive     payment to vaccinators.
                                      age sleep under one
                                      (3.2% of those nets       Malaria policy
                                      treated in children, .3% developed. But whereas
                                      of WRA slept under a      was to be $1 million
                                      treated net). 1/3 of      allocated for ITMs, this
                                      pregnant women            was scaled sown due to
                    Water and         received malaria          differences of opinion
                    sanitation ­ no   prophylaxis in            about how to launch this
                    strong baseline   pregnancy (UDHS           endeavor. Locally made
                    Nutrition ­ see   2000)                     and treated nets are
                    above                                       cheaper and more
                    TB/STD            No clear data.            acceptable. TA helped
                    Other diseases                              draft malaria guidelines.




                                                          - 25 -

                                          No improvement as        Still major gender issues
                                          above.                   to address when 13%
                                          Improved ­ see STIP      households have nets but
                                          Little data              only half these accessed
                                                                   by vulnerable children
                                                                   and WRA.
Higher p.c.                                $7-12 spent on health                               Achieved (but
expenditure on                             of which government                                 with limited
health                                     spent $4 98/99                                      payoffs in terms
                                           (Background to the                                  of health
                                           Budget Ministry of                                  outputs and
                                           Finance 98/99)                                      outcomes)
Higher per capita     IN FY 93/94,        FY 98/99 U. Shs. 59.76 Difficult to separate donor Partially
public spending on government             billion, donors $73.53   and government spending     achieved (but
health (higher share recurrent            million. 8% of           in view of increasing trend with heavy
of government         expenditures were government spending        to budget support.          reliance on
spending on           U.Shs 19.54         allocated to health 95/96                            external
health)               billion, while      and 9% 97/88 (Costing                                support)
                      donors spent US$ the Minimum Health
                      57.21 million       Care Package Uganda
                      (Picazo 1998).      1998). Other authors
                      2.5% of             suggest by 1998 7% of
                      government          total public expenditure
                      spending was        was allocated to health
                      allocated to health (Hay 1998).
                      in 87/88
Proportionately       Government           Government allocation    As of 1998, the Poverty Achieved
higher expenditure allocation to PHC       to PHC 32.2% 95/6, to    Alleviation Fund (PAF)
on lower level        25.1% 92/3, to       hospitals 58.4%          has provided funds
clinical services and hospitals 69.7%      (Picazo 1998)            directly to districts,
public health                                                       now continued in the
                      .                    At district level        SWAp process making
                                           allocations to PHC       distinctions of the
                                           only 25% districts       DHSP contribution
                                           spent 10% or more on     difficult.
                                           basic health services
                                           FY 96/7 ­ so            District annual work plans
                                           government              showed 5-10% of the total
                                           re-earmarked            district budget was
                                           conditional grants and allocated to HIV, STI and
                                           then district non       TB-which were around
                                           salary spending         9% and 5% of the total
                                           increased from U. Shs. BOD (BOD1995,
                                           1.27 billion 96/97 to   Hutchinson 1998).
                                           U. Shs. 2.57 billion
                                           97/8.                   By 2000 the MOH was
                                                                   restructured and central
                                           By 2000 there had       staff reduced from 400 to
                                           been an expansion of    2000, and the MOH HQ
                                           the pilot from 6 to 16  relocated to Kampala
                                           districts implementing
                                           the EHP, and the
                                           share of the budget
                                           going to the EHP
                                           increased from 33% in
                                           1995 to 63% in 1999.
                                           The pilot was first
                                           expanded to 13 then to
                                           all 45 districts.




                                                             - 26 -

Re-structured         DHSP funds          Of the actual FY 98/99     Impact e.g. on National Achieved
health services with absorption 16%       allocation of U. Shs. 54.3 Health Policy 1999        (However, in spite
more                  1995-6, overall     billion, 43.1% is tied to  (focus on minimum         of increases in
responsibilities to   district funds      central MOH and            package, strengthened     budgets to selected
the districts for     absorption 60%      Mulago/Butabika            roles for district health districts and
PHC                   1995.               hospitals, and 56.9%       care, sustainable health increased spending
                                          devoted to district        care financing,           on EHP, no
                      Only 32% of MOH management of which            enhanced roles for        improvement on
                      departments had     38.4% is allocated         community and NGOs        service delivery or
                      technical           centrally as delegated     etc.)                     outcomes seen -
                      guidelines in 1995. funds.                                               See table 2 -4
                                          District absorption        Decentralization          below).
                                          capacity increased from    constrained by civil
                                          60% 1995/6 to 72.5% in     service reform and
                                          1998/9 while the           decentralization ­ local
                                          absorption of DHSP         budgets unable to cope
                                          grants increased from      with staff, also hiring
                                          16% in 1995/6 to 43%       freeze. By 2001
                                          1998/9 and to 70% by       strategy for
                                          2001. However 2001/02      consolidation of a PHC
                                          project funds were fully   Conditional Grant
                                          committed so DHSP          payroll and verified
                                          resources lost to the      salary arrears had been
                                          districts and only         paid.
                                          partially compensated for
                                          by PAF.                    In the restructuring of
                                          Training for DHMT          the MOH, more role for
                                          members in supervision     the HPD including
                                          (87%), planning (77%),     support supervision for
                                          HMIS (81%), and            district plans.
                                          financial management
                                          (34%). MPHs provided       Guidelines available for
                                          for District Directors of  59% of technical
                                          Health Services (94%).     programs in 1999
                                                                     compared with 35% in
                                          All districts provided     1995.
                                          with basic office
                                          equipment and vehicle,
                                          medical equipment to all
                                          public health facilities.
Different options for Formal user fees in Cost sharing: training     Numerous studies were Partially achieved
sustainable health    place at NGO        undertaken, by 1998        supported on reform:      (but with no clear
care financing and facilities and         5-10% of recurrent costs   support supervision,      decisions on
management tested informal fees in        recovered from fees (up    autonomy of hospitals,    appropriate
                      place in            to 65% in NGOs):           contracting out of        financing
                      government.         Government hospitals       clinical and other        strategies)
                                          charging fees increased    services.
                                          from 25 (1995) to 45
                                          (1999). Fees increased     Some models outside
                                          from 1.3% to 9% of         the project were tried
                                          hospital expenditure.      and successful (Kisiizi
                                          Government has now         Hospital scheme for
                                          removed user fees below community financing).
                                          hospital level.            Health insurance was
                                          Health insurance ­ study assessed with
                                         undertaken, not             consultancy support and
                                         implemented                 deemed too costly by
                                                                     government, user fees
                                                                     were supported with




                                                              - 27 -

                                                                 training and guidelines
                                                                 but later cancelled due
                                                                 to political pressure and
                                                                 some concern about
                                                                 whether equity was
                                                                 being affected.
                                                                 Resource mobilization
                                                                 has been achieved with
                                                                 increased donor support
                                                                 and government
                                                                 allocations, which
                                                                 however rely heavily on
                                                                 budget support.
Greater roles for    No clear baseline  Efforts made to         Was to be $500,000 to       Partially Achieved
NGOs, private                           increase roles but no   support private sector
sector and                              clear monitoring        units, this was changed.
communities in the                      framework. Many         Private providers only
provision of services                   initiatives             involved since 1998. No
                                        unsuccessful.           evidence of study of NGO
                                                                performance as outlined in
                                                                the MTR. Funds
                                                                constrained and political
                                                                pressures had impact: e.g.
                                                                Kamuli ­ ended up with a
                                                                government provider for a
                                                                district hospital instead of
                                                                an NGO as planned.
                                                                Indirect effect noted ­ the
                                                                civil service freeze pushed
                                                                people into the private
                                                                sector, as new health
                                                                graduates couldn't be
                                                                hired in the public sector.
                                                                DCA said NGOs could
                                                                supervise government
                                                                facilities ­ not politically
                                                                feasible. By 2000 over
                                                                30% of government health
                                                                spending occurred through
                                                                contracted services.
Effective-ness of    No clear baseline No clear monitoring      By 1998 a study had been Partially achieved
Government                             framework                done on the lack of an
Training institutions                                           HRD policy and
improved                                                        recommended one be
                                                                developed based on the
                                                                EHP. Study proposed 3
                                                                models of training but
                                                                then restructuring
                                                                transferred schools to
                                                                Education.
                                                                By 1998 schools had
                                                                separate bank accounts
                                                                2000 ­ Studies conducted
                                                                on management of training
                                                                schools.
                                                                2001 ­ Inter-ministerial
                                                                committee established to
                                                                review this.
                                                                DHSP also supported the




                                                          - 28 -

                                                               Makerere Public Health
                                                               diploma in Health
                                                               Services Management
                                                               1998-9 (30 participants
                                                               per year); provided
                                                               scholastic materials to
                                                               schools, improved training
                                                               for lab technologists,
                                                               nurses and medical
                                                               assistants, and supported
                                                               tutor training in Mulago
                                                               and Butabika.
Public health        No clear         No clear monitoring       Support to the army      Achieved
program for the      baseline         framework                 expanded over time to
army (identified                                                include civil works
target group)                                                   (Mubende, Tororo and
improved.                                                       Masindi), supervision,
                                                                drugs and supplies,
                                                                equipment and training
                                                                (public health training
                                                                to 4 staff and training
                                                                for 100 vaccinators and
                                                                50 health educators).
                                                                And to army casualties
                                                                who live in a camp. + a
                                                                community health
                                                                program which extends
                                                                to outlying community
                                                                (malaria control, RH,
                                                                school health and
                                                                water/sanitation)
Source The Republic of Uganda Public Expenditure Review Sept. 23, 2002. The World Bank




                                                        - 29 -

Table 1 -Utilization of Health Care by Those Reporting Sick by Poverty Level 1992-2000
                             No/self treatment      Government        Private
1992 lowest 20%                      54.14               17.62                28.23
      Highest 20%                    36.27               16.52                47.22
     Total                           44.87               18.06                37.07
1997 lowest 20%
                                     56.92                18.90               24.18
      Highest 20%                    35.79               17.94                46.28
      Total                          44.80               20.88                34.32
2000 lowest 20%
                                     43.92                18.93               37.15
      Highest 20%                    20.97               19.13                59.89
      Total                          30.58                19.79               49.63


Source: Household Surveys quoted in PER Sept. 23, 2002

Table 2 ­ Summary of Progress in DHSP Outputs by Components for 16 Pilot Districts
Indicators            Status      Status      Status    Target               Comments
                       1995        1999         2002
District            60%         72.5%       75%         89%     Absorption of DHSP funds much less
absorption                                                      from 16% to 43%
capacity
Application of      33%         63%                     80%     Proportion of district funds spent on
EHP                                                             actual delivery of EHP
Services contracted5.7%         12%                     30%     To CBOs, NGOs and private firms.
out
User fee collection                                            User fees abolished in 2001 in
                                                               government units below hospitals.
OPD Utilization     64%         68%         increased   80%     All districts
                                            (no user
                                            fees)
Service delivery    72%         51%         46%         80%     UDHS data. Outreach workers lost
DPT 3                                                           allowances. UNEPI figures higher.
DHTs trained in     35%         77%                     100%
management
Equipping of        32%         100%        100%        100%
health offices
Rehabilitation of   0 units     42          130         200
health units
HMIS monthly        66%         81%                     100%
submission
Financial           0%          66%                     80%     Proportion of un-earmarked funds
decentralization
Downsizing the      400 staff   220                     200
MOH
Staffing of MOH     40%         69%                     80%    Lower figures in Annual Reviews
MOH                 35%         59%                     80%     Technical guidance now key role of
departments                                                     MOH
with technical
guidelines
Source: Konde-Lule J. et al. Final Evaluation of DHSP 2002.

Table 3 ­ Type and Level of DHSP Support to Districts
Category of District       Key Activities           Period of  Rounded Average Annual Support
                                                    Support    per District in Shillings
Pre-pilot (Gulu, Kabale,   · Needs assessment       1994-2000: 100 million



                                                         - 30 -

Tororo)                     · Training                6 years
                            · Service delivery
Pilot (Gulu, Kabale,       · BOD study                1995-2000: 5 200 million
Tororo, Apac, Kiboga,      · Training                 years
Kamuli, Iganga, Lira,      · Supervision
Masindi, Mukono,           · Pilot service delivery
Mubende, Rukungiri,        · Rehabilitation of
Soroti)                    health units
                           · Service delivery
Capacity building 1 (Arua, · Training                 1997-2000: 3 100 million
Hoima, Kasese, Kisoro,     · Supervision              years
Mbale, Mpigi)              · Rehabilitation of
                           health units
                           · Service delivery
Capacity building 2 (rest   As above mainly           1998-2000    50 million
of the districts)           through NGOs
Source : Konde-Lule J. et al. Final Evaluation of the DHSP. 2002.


Table 4 ­ Proportion of District Health Expenditures on EHP
District                                   1995/96                             1998/9
Apac                                          6%                               47%
Gulu                                          NA                               65%
Iganga                                       19%                               48%
Bugiri                                        NA                               19%
Kabale                                       26%                               68%
Kamuli                                       29%                               67%
Kiboga                                       19%                               70%
Lira                                         38%                               69%
Masindi                                      31%                               66%
Mubende                                      10%                               56%
Mukono                                       53%                               57%
Rukungiri                                     7%                               57%
Soroti                                       18%                               81%
Katakwi                                       NA                               80%
Tororo                                        2%                               67%
Busia                                         NA                               70%
Average                                      33%                               62%
Source : Konde-Lule J. et al. Final Evaluation of the DHSP. 2002.




                                                            - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                             US$ million   US$ million
Pilot Activities & Demonstraton                               24.27           13.02             54
Capacity Building for District Health Administration          32.01           34.88            109
Restructuring and Capacity Building for the Ministry of       18.82           17.36            174
Health

Total Baseline Cost                                           75.10           65.26
                         Total Project Costs                  75.10           65.26
                   Total Financing Required                   75.10           65.26


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            2.00             0.00         11.20          0.00       13.20
                                    (2.00)           (0.00)      (10.20)         (0.00)    (12.20)
2. Goods                            13.80            1.00          0.70          9.70       25.20
                                   (13.80)           (1.00)      (0.70)          (0.00)    (15.50)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         12.20          13.90      26.10
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.20)         (0.00)    (12.20)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          5.10          5.50       10.60
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (5.10)          (0.00)     (5.10)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                            15.80            1.00         29.20          29.10      75.10
                                   (15.80)           (1.00)      (28.20)         (0.00)    (45.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                                             19.21        0.85           5.98      26.04
                                      ()            (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            9.86             0.03         0.06           1.03      10.98
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                         0.53             12.29        5.26           2.47      20.55
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00             4.35         2.14           0.26       6.75
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
                                                  - 32 -

 6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                                10.39             35.88              8.31             9.74             64.32
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

  1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

  2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
    of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
    managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Annex 2 ­ Details of Component-Specific Activities and Achievements
Component 1 Pilot and Demonstration Activities
1. Identification of cost effective services

Burden of disease/cost-effectiveness (BOD/CE) study. Through the efforts of DHSP, a Burden of
disease/cost-effectiveness (BOD/CE) analysis for 13 pilot districts was carried out between
November 1995 and February 1996. District health teams (DHTs) were assisted to collect the
necessary health data. They had been trained to carry out data analysis using the computer.
Information obtained from the analysis would be used for health planning and budgeting. The
following were the key outputs of the BOD/CE study:

    · The burden for each of the top-ten diseases was quantified,
    · Health funding was estimated by source,
    · The cost of the essential health package (EHP) as defined by each DHT was
      determined and funding gaps were estimated,
    · The cost-effectiveness of common health care interventions was determined,
    · The mismatch between budgetary allocation and disease burden was determined.
2. Implementation of Cost ­Effective Services to selected districts (Delivery of EHP to
District Populations) In the pilot districts, DHSP has been the major source of funding for the
delivery of the EHP to the district populations. DHSP on average provided about 40% of the
funds spent by pilot districts in the delivery of the EHP (Excluding wages, hospital costs and most
costs of drugs).
3. Provision of District Level Supporting Services including:

     ·   Strengthening of district health team supervision. DHTs were trained in support
         supervision, given the necessary guideline and provided with operational funds and
         logistics to carry out supervision
     ·   IEC materials and services on various components of the EHP.
     ·   Social mobilization of the community by DHT on various health problems.
     ·   Provision of continuing education to health care providers. This was e central feature of
         the DHSP support to the district capacity building component
     ·   Training community based heath workers such as Traditional Birth Attendants (TBAs)
         and Community Health Workers (CHWs). This was a major target under the capacity
         building component of DHSP. TBAs were in addition equipped with the delivery kit.
     ·   Equip and rehabilitate buildings and health facilities. In order to enhance the capacity of



                                                        - 33 -

         health facilities to provide the health facility based aspects of the EHP, their rehabilitation
         and equipment became imperative. DHSP deployed a significant portion of its resources
         for this task.
    ·    Develop sustainable repair and maintenance services for health equipment, facilities and
         transport. This was to include development of procedures for contracting out these
         services. DHSP supported this initiative through provision of resources to pay contractors,
         provision of information to districts on the relative cost of services and technical support to
         districts in the contracting process.
    ·    Conduct necessary operational research. This effort was supported by DHSP through
         two ways. Students on MPH Program of Makerere University attached to districts
         undertook research relevant to districts with project funding. Districts separately
         identified operational research needs for which they budgeted and implemented though
         district work plans.
    ·    Design and implement monitoring and evaluation system. During the development of
         district work plans, indicators for monitoring performance were identified. Monitoring and
         evaluation was one of the areas in which DHTs were trained. The HMIS supported by
         DHSP, is one of the monitoring tools.
4.       Test resource mobilization and efficient use options

·        Improved financial management and accounting system implementation

·        Assessing feasibility of facility pricing proposals/ Establishing user-fees for publicly
provided health care services. Since colonial times, public sector health services in Uganda have
been provided free of charge. Various post independence governments have maintained this policy.
From early 1980s, following a period of severe economic decline in the country, health sector
funding could no longer sustain the large health care infrastructure that had been established, or the
growing demand for health care. As a result, informal and illegal charging for health services in
the public sector became widespread. An attempt was made between 1987 and 1993 to formalize
user-fee as a national health policy. A bill that would enshrine the policy was however rejected by
the parliament. But the Local Government Act of 1997 allows local authorities to charge fees, at
their discretion, for services they provide. This formed the basis for national user-fee policy
development. DHSP promoted and supported districts in establishing user-fees with two main
objectives: first, to introduce the population to being cost-conscious about healthcare. Second,
once this notion is well established, the risk of health care costs to households would form the basis
for introducing a national health insurance. Other objectives, such as revenue generation, were
considered to be of secondary importance. Most DHSP support has been for developing and
disseminating user-fee guidelines and for training health workers and committees to use the
guidelines. The guidelines also provide guidance on exemption and waiver mechanisms, which are
implemented by both health workers and community leaders. The support included the provision
of logistics such as safes, cash boxes and receipt books. While user-fees were applied widely, they
were not applied in all districts or health units. A study carried out revealed that most health units
had user-fee management guidelines. User-fee collections were found to have improved over the
previous 2 or 3 years. The collections represented about 0.5% to 10% of the total health
unit/hospital expenditures. It was interesting to find that hospitals with previously low user-fee
collection dramatically increased their collection simply by reducing the number of collection
centers. The efforts of DHSP culminated into a draft policy on user-fees. Government has
however, revisited the issue of user fees upon realization that many people were not accessing
heath services because they cannot pay user-fees. In referral and district hospitals, private wings
have been established where those who can afford will be attended to. The second wing will offer


                                                       - 34 -

free services to those who cannot afford costs of the private wing.

·        Feasibility of drug revolving funds. DHSP supported efforts to establish drug revolving
funds. Various studies under DHSP and the DANIDA funded Uganda Essential Drugs Support
Program (UEDSP) however, have shown that it is not feasible, under the existing circumstances, to
establish a revolving fund at the district level. Districts receive drugs, (free of cost to themselves),
from many sources. The immediate problem facing districts is therefore that of a multitude and
uncoordinated methods of drug supply, funding and delivery. Against this background, the need to
create a revolving fund proved difficult. The lack of supplies/logistics and a management system at
the district level have compounded this situation, which has resulted in the poor management and
distribution of drugs and supplies within districts.

Therefore, MOH working with different donor agencies financing drugs in the country
commissioned reviews to assess the drug situation. The agencies included DANIDA, DHSP, STIP,
DFID, the National Drug Authority and National Medical Stores. The reviews identified poor
prescription culture and inefficient management and use of drugs throughout the country as some
of the key problems. DHSP and DANIDA, in association with the National Drug Authority,
supported the implementation of recommendations, which included training of health workers in
rational drug use and in assessing district drug needs.

·        Test community income generating activities. Community Based Income Generation for
Financing Health Services. This initiative was meant to raise the income levels of communities so
that they are able to pay for health services. Two schemes for income generation were supported
through DHSP as pilots. One was a potato-growing project in Kabale district. A seed fund of U.
Shs. I million was given to women's group to start the project. Two years later, it had generated
over U. Shs. 10 million worth of assets and income. The women and their families have benefited
through improved nutrition, as they were able to buy nutritious food from the proceeds of the sale
of potatoes. Improved income is also expected to have made it easier for them to access health
care. The other scheme, less successful, was a bakery in Gulu, started by health workers. Due to
insecurity and difficulties with transportation, it was not possible to find a market for the bread.
The project did not therefore last long or provide the envisaged benefits. However, questions about
the extent to which the health sector should get involved in income generation were raised. It was
concluded that directly supporting income generation was not the role of health sector, which
lacked the necessary institutional framework to provide back up services.

·        Test local health insurance proposals. Two prepayment pilot schemes were supported in
Tororo and Kisiizi Hospitals. In Tororo, peasant farmers were advised to pay in advance for their
hospital expenses at the time of harvesting maize and rice. The scheme was successful for a couple
of years, mainly as a result of a vigilant coordinator and good harvests. As a result of poor
harvests in the subsequent seasons, the scheme became unsustainable. The second, more
successful scheme in Kisiizi Hospital was partly financed by DFiD. It was launched in September
1996 and evaluated in April 1997. The enrolled membership was 3 times what had been estimated.
The success of this scheme has been attributed to: (a) the existence of sickness societies (or
Engozi) where risk sharing is not an alien culture (b) availability of a good quality hospital C slow,
non-pressuring community mobilization. The Top Management of the Ministry of Health however,
observed that the success of the Kisiizi scheme was too short to be conclusive. It was
recommended that the pilot be extended to 8 hospitals in different parts of the country before a
decision could be taken on whether and how to adopt prepayment as a national policy.




                                                      - 35 -

·        Assessing the Feasibility of Social Health Insurance in Uganda. A study financed through
DHSP to assess feasibility for health insurance in Uganda, proposed three types of insurance: (a)
mutual funds for large firms and civil servants (b) voluntary health care plans for the rural
population and people without formal employment, and (c) a Medi-Save program in which
members can save on the money they have prepaid for healthcare. In addition, the study proposed
further development of private insurance, rationalization of the third-party car insurance and of
mutual accident funds. A study to assess the feasibility of providing a package of health services
for workers was carried out by the Health Planning Department through DHSP support. While it
was found to be economically feasible for such services to be provided through insurance,
insurance requires an enabling legal framework. At the moment it is deemed politically and
financially not viable

5. Improve collaboration with private sector and NGO providers. The initiatives strengthened
or initiated by DHSP regarding Private- Public Collaboration have been concretized in the National
Health Policy. A portion of funds allocated to the Ministry of Health from the national treasury,
is now used to fund NGO hospitals and health units
·        Review existing barriers. It was envisaged that better collaboration with the private sector
would increase the capacity of the districts to deliver the EHP to district populations. In order to
enhance the delivery of the EHP by the private sector, it was found necessary to review the laws
and regulations governing private medical practice and to identify possible entry barriers to the
health care market. Several barriers were identified and recommendations to eliminate them made.
Many of these recommendations are being incorporated for adoption in the new health policy and
Health Services bill. Other recommendations, such as those related to contracting, grants for
NGOs, and exploring the feasibility for a wider role of health insurance are being implemented.
·        Involve private sector in health planning and implementation. Districts have been
encouraged to allow private providers to participate in the development and implementation of
district work plans with project funding. There was little success however, as districts, which had
traditionally been under funded considered private providers to be competitors for scarce resources.
It can be argued however, that DHSP was not assertive in promoting this collaboration because
under the STI project, the same arrangement worked.
·        Direct support to private organizations. The project provided financial support to over
100 private providers to implement approved proposals. The proposals covered core components
of the EHP namely: malaria control, reproductive health, and water and sanitation and school
health. The DCA provided for USD 500,000 for the establishment of private units in undeserved
areas. Each private unit was to be provided with up to USD 25,000 for equipment. This has not
been done because private for profit health providers are demand and profit driven. It was realized
that health facilities that are not demand-driven, and hence unsustainable, would be established
through the grant.
·        Training. DHSP financed the training of district health staff without discrimination
between public and private. The main types of training have been operational and mid level
management courses
·        NGO Panel. A national NGO Panel was formed at the MOH to promote and put in place
modalities for private-public collaboration. When districts failed to collaborate with the private
sector in work plan implementation, the Panel selected private sector proposals for DHSP funding.
Alongside district authorities, the panel also supervises the implementation of private sector
activities funded by the project. District NGO Panels were not found necessary as an equivalent
body, the District Health Management Team, already existed in each district, and comprises of
DDHS's core team (or, the District Health Team, DHT) and representatives of NGOs, CBOs and
hospitals


                                                     - 36 -

·        Contracting Non-core Services to the Private Sector. DHSP supported and strengthened
the contracting by hospitals to the private sector of non-core services such as repair and
maintenance of vehicles, equipment, buildings, gardening, cleaning and catering. Support included
funding for contracted out services and technical support supervision. As a result of these efforts,
the proportion of health expenditure on contracted services grew from 5.7% to 12% between
1995/1996 and 1998/1999 in the 13 pilot districts.
·        Contracting selected Health Centers to or From NGOs and Private Providers. The DCA
specifically required that studies and experimenting of contracting to NGOs be carried out
nationwide, and in particular in Kamuli district and health centers in Kampala. The study to
determine optimal ways of contracting was carried out in 4 districts. Kamuli district leadership
however, preferred a government district hospital to be built rather than contract services from an
NGO hospital. This is being done through a loan provided by the Spanish Government.
Contracting out of health centers in Kampala was not carried out. This was expected to benefit
from the strategic health plan for Kampala and the greater autonomy for Mulago Hospital. Both
studies were supported by DHSP.
·        Provision of Medical Equipment to NGO Health Facilities. NGO Health facilities
including Kamuli Hospital and Vira Maria Hospitals benefited from medical and, laboratory
equipment procured through DHSP. All the NGO health facilities heading health sub-districts
benefited from this procurement.
·        Supervision. The DCA provides for NGOs with good performance record to supervise
Government health units and community-based activities. This kind of collaboration already
existed in districts and has been enhanced further through the establishment of health sub-districts.
NGO health units with good performance are in charge of a health sub-district with several health
units including Government ones, to supervise. DHSP provided funds for supervision carried out
by NGO facilities and personnel.




·        Evolving Alternative Options for Paying Health Workers. It was envisaged that health
workers paid adequately and promptly were vital for the delivery of the EHP. In light of the poor
remuneration of government, which was also not paid on time, DHSP was to evolve alternative
options for paying health workers. A study financed by DHSP was carried out in Kabale district
to identify and recommend different ways of motivating staff. The study recommended (a) prompt
payment of salaries and allowances (b) performance based rewarding (c) allowing co-ownership of
motorcycles or bicycles (d) provision of housing (e) prompt appointment, confirmation and
promotion of staff. The study noted that the salary of most staff was below the basic monthly
expenditure. The staff therefore spent a good part of their work time making a living by other
ways, such as trading and farming. The most important incentive to health workers would be to
meet their basic living cost. A DHT bonus scheme was briefly tried in Kabale but was stopped, as
members were not being rewarded by performance but by seniority. Motivating health workers
though appropriate pay is the mandate of the Ministry of Public Service and is a core component in
the on going Civil Service Reform Program. The Ministry of Health through DHSP could not
carry its efforts forward though fully aware that motivated health workers are critical for the
delivery of the EHP to the population



                                                     - 37 -

 5. Support PHC Activities

 ·        Evolving a Community Based Mechanism for Sale and Maintenance of Impregnated
 Bed-nets. Through DHSP, funds have been provided to the districts to procure Impregnated
 Mosquito Nets, which were to be sold to users and funds used to procure more nets. This effort
 was hampered by two problems namely: the prohibitive cost of the nets to users as they were until
 recently, taxed and the lack of a promotion strategy by the Ministry of Health which created the
 impression that communities do not appreciate the use of impregnated nets as an effective strategy
 for malarial control. DHSP lobbied against the taxes, and the nets are now tax-free.
 ·        Increase use of Pit latrines and availability of Clean Drinking Water. DHSP has provided
 materials for latrine construction to community members, and has supported the construction of
 latrines in schools and other public places, The public is being sensitized about the importance of
 using latrines through various ways including mass media campaigns. Through the project, water
 sources also have been protected and some limited sinking of bore holes done. It should be noted
 however, the mandate for provision of water lies with the Ministry of Water, Lands and
 Environment.
 ·        Procure Drugs, Vitamins, Equipment and Supplies. DHSP has, to a limited extent, funded
 the procurement of essential drugs by districts from the National Medical Stores. The main source
 of for the health sector has been the Uganda Essential Drugs Program funded by DANIDA
 (Denmark).

Component 2 ­ Capacity Building for District Administrations

1. Institutional Development of the District Health Teams

·Logistical Support. The project provided districts with: Transport (Motor vehicles; Motor
cycles; Bicycles; Ambulances; Tricycles); Office Equipment (Computers; Photocopiers; Manual
Typewriters; Duplicating machines; Generators; Fax machines; Safes; Filing cabinets and shelves;
Furniture
·Human Resources Development. Government and NGO health workers at the district level were
trained to improve service delivery, planning and budgeting, management, computing, monitoring
and evaluation, support supervision. Decentralization. DHSP funded the restructuring of the
district department of health, which was a basis for further decentralization of health services to
the health sub district level. This has enabled the DDHS to concentrate on planning, monitoring
and technical support with health sub districts. Planning. Every DHT and staff of lower level
health units have been trained in planning, district planning guidelines have been supported and
DHSP has also funded the annual planning exercise during which central facilitators guide the
development of district work plans. DHSP introduced an element of certainty in the planning
process (planning ceilings, which were always adhered to were known before hand), which has
contributed to the emergence of a culture of rational and realistic planning. Districts now know
the top ten diseases and the cost-effective interventions.
·HMIS. DHSP has contributed to the development and strengthening of a system for collecting,
collating, analyzing, disseminating and utilization of health related data. Specific actions
supported with regard to HMIS include: Training of DHTs, Hospital and Health unit
management teams in HMIS; printing of HMIS forms; support supervision of health units by
DHTs. As a result of these efforts, the % of health facilities submitting monthly HMIS returns
has increased from 66% in 1995 to above 80% in 1999. Filing System. Because of the increasing
number of records handled by the heath department at the district level and to ensure easy retrieval
and utilization of information, DHSP supported the development of a filing system. Besides


                                                       - 38 -

provision of filing cabinets and meeting recurrent costs, DHSP hired a consultant who trained
trainers who in turn trained DHTs and staff of health units in filing, which has improved records
management at the district level.
·Stores Management. Besides constructing stores, DHSP supported the revitalization of the
system for managing stores: stores management training, and stock cards procurement As a result,
it is now possible to know in the district stores, what has been received, issued to who and the
balance with regard to drugs and other supplies
·Accounting System. DHSP funds at the district level were managed within the existing financial
management structure. Guidelines and formats have now been provided for utilization and
accounting for project funds. This is a result of training accounts staff attached to the department
of health, provision of guidelines and regular support supervision by the PCO.
·Support Supervision. DHSP supported the strengthening of the support supervision system at the
district level (DHT) and central programs
·Strengthening the Public Health Directorate of NRA ( UPDF)
2. Testing Greater Autonomy of Government Health Units. It was envisaged that if
government health units were more autonomous, they would be more effective and efficient. A
study commissioned by DHSP recommended ways of making Mulago Hospital more autonomous.
The recommendations are under consideration by the MOH. A consultant funded by DHSP has
also reviewed the structures of referral hospitals. The structures are consistent with the greater
autonomy aspirations that referral hospitals are expected to have. Hospitals, for example, have
management committees that are responsible for day-to-day issues. They also now have
responsibility for procuring drugs and other supplies for which they directly receive funds from the
treasury. District hospitals have been decentralized to District Local Authorities. The next step is
for district hospitals to gain sufficient levels of autonomy to operate efficiently without much
interference from either the MOH or district authorities.
 3. Measures to Improve the Effectiveness of Government Training Institutions. A study to
 propose ways of improving health training in Government health institutions was carried out with
 DHSP funding. Several proposals were made and as result of the study, the HRD policy and plan
 for the health sector has been drafted. However, the restructuring of the Government has overtaken
 the implementation of the proposals. In the new structure, all health-training institutions have been
 removed from line ministries and placed under the Ministry of Education. The MOH is now only
 responsible for providing technical guidance on the training policy and for national human resource
 planning for the health sector.
Component 3 ­ Restructuring and Capacity Building for the MOH
1. To restructure the Ministry around its new responsibilities. Through DHSP, consulting
services were procured for the restructuring of the Ministry of Health to align it with its new role.
The districts also clearly understand that direct service delivery of health care to the population is
now their role. The Ministry now has a better functional definition and grouping and is now
organized around its constitutional mandate, which includes:

     ·    Policy formulation,
     ·    Setting Standards
     ·    Quality Assurance
     ·    National Epidemic Control
     ·    Capacity building of districts and other providers
     ·    Technical Support
     ·    Coordination
     ·    National Planning



                                                        - 39 -

    ·    Coordination of Research
    ·    Monitoring and Evaluation
    ·    Resource Mobilization

Regional referral hospitals were also restructured through the efforts of DHSP. The exercise
prepared the hospitals for autonomy. This has not yet been granted but the hospitals are now
self-accounting and have management committees for decision making on day-to-day operational
issues. Such decisions as determining need for drugs and other supplies and undertaking
procurement are now taken by referral hospitals.
 2. Training. Many officers of the Ministry have been trained at home and abroad in various
 disciplines to enhance their capacity to undertake roles consistent with the mandate of the Ministry
 of Health. Capacity for policy formulation, strategic planning, monitoring and evaluation,
 provision of technical support, development of guidelines has improved. The National health
 policy and Health Sector Strategic Plan were for example, developed with little external technical
 assistance. The Ministry staff is moving forward the SWAp process again with little external
 technical assistance. The Ministry has officers trained in such new areas such as environmental
 health and health insurance and telemedicine with DHSP support.
 3. Logistical Support. The project provided Ministry of Health with logistical support namely:
 Transport (Motor vehicles, Ambulance ( Mulago Hospital); Office Equipment (Computers,
 Photocopiers, Generator, Fax machines, Filing cabinets and shelves, Furniture)
 4. Strengthen Heath Planning and Inspection Departments
5. Introduce a Quality Assurance Program in Ministry of Health. In accordance with its
mandate, it was imperative for the Ministry of Health to develop a system for ensuring that health
care standards are adhered to by private and public heath care providers. DHSP has supported the
Ministry of Health to develop this Quality Assurance System. As a result of DHSP support, the %
of MOH departments with guidelines has increased from 32% in 1995 to 59% in 2000.Specific
actions funded include:

    ·    Paying salaries of staff of the quality assurance unit that was originally not part of the
         Ministry structure and staffing.
    ·    Based on the successful pilot, the Quality Assurance Department was included as part
         of the regular structure of the Ministry of Health through a restructuring process funded
         by DHSP. Quality Assurance Departments have also been established in other
         ministries such as Water and Mineral Development based on the successful pilot of
         DHSP.
    ·    DHSP has funded the development of guidelines and standards covering many program
         areas such as malaria, school health, environment health, nutrition, and reproductive
         health.
    ·    DHSP has funded the training of government and non-government providers on quality
         assurance.
    ·    Quality Assurance visits have been regularly funded by DHSP.
6. Movement of the Ministry of Health headquarters to Kampala. Through DHSP, the
Ministry of Health Headquarters was reconstructed and relocated to Kampala. This has improved
the operational capacity of the Ministry as most departments are now accommodated in one
building making coordination easier.     The relocation has also made it easy for the clients of the
Ministry to access its services.
 7. Formulate and implement action plans for health services decentralization and
 restructuring. Through DHSP, the process and system for health care planning at the national and



                                                      - 40 -

 district levels has been strengthened. DHSP has supported the development of the National Health
 Policy and health Sector Strategic Plan. These two documents provide overall guidance to the
 planning process in the entire health sector ­ public and private. Public sector funding for the
 health sector is based on an agreed work plan that must be consistent with the national health
 policy and health sector strategic plan. The development of planning guidelines and facilitation of
 the planning exercise at national and district levels has been supported by DHSP. Owing to its
 central role in the reform of the health sector, the Health Planning Department was targeted for
 support by DHSP. Support included: training, logistical support and operational funds to execute
 the functions of the department.
 8. HMIS. DHSP has contributed to the development and strengthening of the System for
 collecting, collating, analyzing, disseminating and utilization of health related data. This system
 has now been constituted into the Resource Center of the Ministry. Specific actions supported with
 regard to HMIS and later the Resource Center include: Redesigning the HMIS system- DHSP co
 -funded with DANIDA and UNICEF the consultation process; Prevision of computers to central
 HMIS Unit; Training of DHTs, in HMIS; Support supervision of DHTs by the central team
 9. Financial Management. Though DHSP funding and technical assistance obtained through
 DHSP, districts and hospitals have been assisted to strengthen the system for management of
 funds. Regular field visits funded by DHSP helped in institutionalizing the system. Training of
 accounts staff at the central levels has contributed to the building of a strong financial management
 system. Computers have also been provided by DHSP making it possible to computerize the
 system.
 10. Procurement. The expertise developed through DHSP in the area of procurement is assisting
 the Ministry of Health in executing its regular procurement functions. The PCO system will form
 the foundation of the new procurement unit, which is being, formed in the Ministry of Health in
 consultation with the Ministry of Public Service.
 11. Moving Forward the SWAp Process. By design, DHSP had characteristics of a SWAp.
 Many donors were expected to fund a common program of work through the project that was
 largely sector wide. Some institutional aspects of SWAp such as using regular systems of
 government had some similarities with the design of DHSP. (DHSP operates within government
 systems particularly at district level). The design of the Uganda SWAp has therefore had a lot to
 learn from DHSP. Project staff has also been instrumental in the design and implementation of the
 SWAp because of their experience. Further support to the SWAp process includes:

     ·     Various consultations and joint reviews have been funded by DHSP.
     ·     The process of developing the National Health Policy and Health Sector Strategic Plan,
           which served as the foundation of the SWAp, also benefited from DHSP funding.

 Study Tours to countries that adopted the SWAp concept earlier than Uganda were funded by
 DHSP. This enriched the development of the Uganda SWAp.
12. Main streaming Gender in the Health Sector. In the design of DHSP, mainstreaming of
gender in the health sector was not a specific requirement. In the course of implementation
however, it became clear that gender issues could not be ignored. The following actions were
undertaken with project support as a contribution to the on going efforts to mainstream gender in
the health sector:

(a) The review of laws and regulations governing the health sector funded by DHSP included a
gender perspective. As a result, midwives are now allowed to operate
 maternity homes



                                                       - 41 -

(b) DHSP funded the review of the draft health policy to include a gender perspective. The final
edition of the policy has specific actions for bridging gender gaps in the health sector.

(c) As a result of the DHSP initiative and the ongoing discussion on the need to address gender
issues, several programs of the Ministry were reviewed to identify and bridge gender-gaps.

(d) Following restructuring, which was funded by DHSP, an analysis of the allocation of key
positions at the Ministry headquarters, districts and hospitals, was done by DHSP. The analysis
revealed serious under representation of women in key leadership/decision making positions. This
information was made available to top management with a view that it would inform the process of
recruitment and promotion and deployment.

(e) Selection of candidates for training under the project had gender as part of the criteria.
Women were given special consideration, given their under representation in key
leadership/decision making positions. As a result, more women than men were trained overall.

(f) Whenever a woman who was selected from in country training was breast-feeding, DHSP paid
for the baby-seater and extra milk for the baby if required.

(g) Under the user fees scheme in government health facilities developed with DHSP support,
there was a waiver mechanism for those unable to pay. Most beneficiaries were women.

(h) The Ministry of health headquarters although not a very tall building has lifts, making it
friendly to people with disabilities.




                                                      - 42 -

 Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

not applicable




                                       - 43 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/1993                   8    1 Sr. Public Health Specialists
                                             1 Operation Officer
                                             1 Economist
                                             1 Field Manager - ODA
                                             2 USAID
                                             2 Representative from SIDA


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              5/1994                  14     1 Sr. Public Health
                                             Specialists
                                             2 Operation Officer
                                             3 Economist
                                             1 Staff Assistant
                                             5 Representatives ( ODA
                                             USAID, SIDA, DANIDA
                                             2 Peer Reviewers


 Supervision

              10/26/1995                8    2 Operation Officer                  S               S
                                             1 Sr. Economist
                                             1 Representative - ODA
                                             1 Task Manager
                                             2 Representative from SIDA
                                             1 Implementation Specialist
              04/26/1996                6    2 Operation Officer                  S               S
                                             1 Sr. Economist
                                             1 Representative - ODA
                                             1 Task Manager
                                             1 Implementation Specialist
              11/08/1996                7    2 Operation Officer                  U               S
                                             1 Sr. Health Economist
                                             1 Representative - ODA
                                             1 Task Team Leader
                                             1 Consultant
                                             1 Disbursement Analyst
              05/29/1997                8    3 Public Health Specialists          U               U
                                             2 Economist
                                             1 Team Leader
                                             1 Communications
                                             1 Implementation Specialist)
              11/14/1997               12    3 Public Health Specialist           S               S
                                             1 Operation Officer
                                             4 Economist



                                              - 44 -

                 1 Team Leader
                 1 Health Program Officer
                 1 STD Advisor
                 1 Implementation Specialist
05/28/1998    9  1 Team Leader                   S    S
                 1 Public Health Specialist
                 1 Health Specialist
                 1 Implementation Specialist
                 1 Procurement Specialist
                 1 Program Officer
                 1 Sr. Health Advisor
                 1 Public Health Specialist
                 1 Sociologist
04/30/1999    8  1 Public Health Specialist      S    S
                 1 Mission Leader
                 1 Sr. Health Specialist
                 1 Health Specialist
                 1 Health Economist
                 1 Consultant
                 1 Sr. Health Advisor
                 1 Procurement Specialist
11/05/1999    15 1 Team Leader                   S    S
                 3 Health Specialists
                 1 Procurement Specialist
                 1 Consultant
                 1 Malaria Specialist
                 1 Health Economist
                 1 SIDA, Regional Adviser
                 2 SIDA Consultant
                 1 USAID, Tech. Adviser
                 1 Macroeconomist
                 1 Macroeconomist-Uganda
                 1 Financial Mgt. Specialist
04/18/2000    7  1 Mission Leader                S    S
                 1 Pr. Health Specialist
                 1 Health Specialist
                 1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
                 1 Financial Mgt.
                 2 Pharmaceuticals Specialist
10/27/2000    4  1 Team Leader                   S    S
                 1 Lead Health Specialist
                 1 Health Specialist
                 1 Sr. Procurement Specialist
03/21/2001    2  1 Team Leader                   S    S
                 1 Health Specialist
11/21/2001    4  1 Team Leader                   S    S
                 1 Team Member
                 1 Procurement Specialist
                 1 Member Financial Mgt.


6/2002        3  1 Sr. Health Specialist
                 1 Team Leader



                 - 45 -

                                            1 Procurement Analyst

 ICR
               1/2003                 3     1 Team Leader, 1 Health              S
                                            Specialist, 1 Public Health
                                            Specialist




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         163.60                              105
  Appraisal/Negotiation                71.00                           62.80
  Supervision                        790.60                              998
  ICR                                      21                              75
  Total                             1046.62                           1240.80




                                            - 46 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 47 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Beaton G. et al. Effectiveness of Vitamin A Supplementation in the Control of Young Child Morbidity and
Mortality in Developing Countries. University of Toronto Report to the Canadian International
Development Agency, 1993.

Berman P. et al. A Feasibility Analysis of Social Health Insurance in Uganda. Dec. 2001.

Child Health and Development Center (Makerere) and UNICEF Kampala. A Situation Analysis of Women,
Adolescents and Children in Uganda: An Analysis for the Health Program, Sept. 1999

Hutchinson P. Ongoing Progress on Decentralization in Uganda's Health Sector. Mimeograph Uganda
Resident Mission. 1998

Hutchinson P. Household Demand for Health Services in Uganda. Assessing Outcomes for a
Comprehensive Development Framework. October 1999.

Konde-Lule J. et al. Final Evaluation of the District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
(DHSP). September 2002.

KPMG. Recommendations for Restructuring of the MOH in Uganda. 10 Mar. 1998.

Ministry of Health. White Paper on Health Policy Update and Review.1993.

Ministry of Health. Mid-Term Review Report District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Report.
Uganda ­ IDA Credit No. 2679-Ug. Sept. 1998.

Picazo O. Uganda District Health Services Pilot Project Mid-Term Review of Health Care Financing
Aspects. Oct. 12-23 1998.

Pyle D. et al. Nutrition Policy and Strategy; Opportunities for Programming and Impact. John Snow
International, May 2000.

Uganda Bureau of Statistics, Macro USA. Demographic and Health Survey. 1995.

Uganda Bureau of Statistics, Macro USA. Demographic and Health Survey. 2000/01.

World Bank. DHSP Aide-Memoires Supervision Missions, MTR, and PSR reports.




                                                  - 49 -

Additional Annex 8. Comments from MoH and Borrower's Implementation Completion
Report

Borrower's Comments on the draft Implementation Completion Report Prepared by IDA

1.       Comments of the Borrower on the ICR

1.1      The ICR prepared by IDA displays a good understanding of the design and scope of the project and
the environment in which it was implemented.

1.2      We would like however, to make the following observations on some of the assessments made in
the ICR.
a)       Quality at Entry. In our assessment, the quality at entry was marginally satisfactory.
The assessment of the ICR does not take full account of the following positive factors:
l The project was consistent with government priorities for the health sector as reflected in the 1993-96
    health policy and plan.
l The project benefited from a baseline study.
l The reform element of the project was in line with other on going government reforms such as
    decentralization and civil service reform. There was a positive environment for reform.
l DHSP inherited some officers, personnel, and logistics from the First Health Project that ensured a
    quick project take off.

We agree with the identified factors, which negatively affected quality at entry.

b)       Achievement of objectives and out puts. Our assessment is that given the complex design of the
project and the challenging environment in which it was implemented, its overall achievement was
satisfactory. The assessment of the ICR does not take full account of the following:

l The project made a significant contribution to the revitalisation of the health sector. It introduced the
    concept of the Essential Health Package (EHP) which is now the basis for planning and resource
    allocation. There is now, as a result, more rational use of resources. The project also provided the
    financial resources for delivering the EHP to district populations in the 13 and later 16 pilot districts.
    Support services such as community mobilisation and IEC necessary for delivering the EHP were also
    supported.

l In terms of capacity building, the project supported human resource and institutional development,
    infrstustrctural and systems development and provision of logistics at the district and central levels.
    The public health sector is now one of the most vibrant government institutions. DHSP also made a
    significant contribution to the institutionalisation of the collaboration between public and private
    sectors in health care delivery through support to NGOs.

l The Project's institutional development impact is high. DHSP has enhanced the capacity of the health
    sector to use human and material resources for improved health care delivery. DHSP laid the
    foundation for the current SWAp process, which has provided a basis for further development of the
    health sector in a coordinated manner.

l The sustainability of the project is rated as likely because many of the reforms and initiatives started or
    supported under the project are now part of the HSSP and have already been integrated in the regular



                                                      - 50 -

    operations of the MOH through budget support and SWAp arrangements.

2.      BANK AND PARTNER PERFORMANCE

Bank

2 1     Lending

The Bank performance was satisfactory at identification and preparation phases. At the preparation phase,
the preparation team clearly identified the critical heath sector issues, which were consistent with
Government of Uganda's priorities in addressing heath care as reflected in the 1993-1996 Health Policy
and Plan and the Health Sector White Paper. The Bank also built partnership with other development
partners in supporting heath sector development some of whom funded the pre-investment studies and later
on agreed to co-finance the project.

At appraisal, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal mission included a team with
a comprehensive skills mix. At appraisal project institutional arrangements both at the center and districts,
phasing of project implementation, the role of the NGOs, linkages with existing heath sector programs
supported by other development partners were further reviewed and agreed with government.

2.2     Supervision

The Bank's performance was satisfactory as the Bank met its formal supervision requirement of twice a
year during project implementation and was able to develop good rapport and working relations with the
government team. This ensured timely and adequate follow up of agreed actions and early resolution of
emerging issues. DHSP was a complex project whose successful implementation would not have been
possible without a very supportive IDA task team.

2.3     Overall Bank performance

The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory.

Partner Performance

The project was co-funded by the Government of Sweden through SIDA and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany through KfW.

i)      SIDA: The performance of SIDA is rated as very satisfactory. SIDA provided three technical
        advisers who were very instrumental in the implementation of the project and overall reform of the
        health sector. SIDA promptly responded to issues raised.
ii)     KfW: The performance of KfW is also rated as very satisfactory. KfW provided technical
        support and was prompt in releasing funds and responding to issues raised. No KfW funds were
        cancelled because the KfW agreement expired only after all the KfW funds had been utilized.
____________________________________________________________________________________
Summary of Borrower's Implementation Completion Report Prepared by MOH

District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project
(IDA-26790: Project ID: P002791)




                                                      - 51 -

1.       Assessment of Development Objective and Design and Quality at Entry

1.1      Background

The District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project was a successor to the First Health Project.
Following the completion of the First Health Project (FHP) funded through a World Bank credit, it became
imperative for the Government of Uganda (GOU) to plan a systematic development of the health sector.
FHP had been conceived as an emergency program to restore the functional capacity of a number of health
facilities and services. The GOU and IDA had originally proposed CHAP, Community Health and AIDS
Project as a successor to FHP to address health policy issues and contain the AIDS epidemic. Given the
seriousness and urgency of the AIDS epidemic however, the original project was split into two projects: the
DHSP and the Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (STIP) with the latter being launched earlier than
DHSP.

2.2       Objectives

Specific Objectives of DHSP which never changed through the life of the project were:

i)           To pilot and test new sector policies which will facilitate theimplementation of essential health
services.

ii)      To strengthen planning and management capacity at district levels so that they are prepared to
deliver essential health services.

iii)     To restructure Ministry of Health and build its capacity to provide health policy leadership and to
support the government's policy of decentralisation.

The objectives of the project were clear and consistent with the aspirations of government for the
development of the health sector.

1.3      Original Project Components

The project had four original components namely:

i)       Pilot Activities
ii)      Demonstration Activities
iii)     Capacity Building for District Health Administrations
iv)      Capacity Building and Restructuring for the Ministry of Health

1.4      Revised Project Components.

Project components remained the same, but the strategy for implementing the components was changed
where by pilot and demonstration components were implemented without distinction because the conditions
for moving to demonstration from pilot could not be met in one year as originally envisaged.

The project components were consistent with the project objectives set out above. DHSP was however, a
very complex project considering the number of reforms it was expected to undertake and the decentralized
framework in which it was implemented.



                                                    - 52 -

1.5      Original and revised Project Cost

The total project costs as estimated and planned at project inception amounted to US. $75.1 Million. Only
USD 66 Million was however realized because DANIDA (Denmark) and ODA (United Kingdom) who
were originally to co ­fund the project, changed plans and channeled their funding to the health sector
through other arrangements. Government counterpart funding was later revised to 5% due to cash flow
problems. Because of this shortfall several initiatives such as support to NGOs were scaled down.

1.6      Quality at Entry

The quality at entry is considered marginally satisfactory for the following reasons:

l The project was consistent with government priorities for the health sector as reflected in the 1993-96
    health policy and plan.
l The project benefited from a baseline study.
l The reform element of the project was in line with other on going government reforms such as
    decentralization and civil service reform.
l DHSP inherited some officers, personnel, and logistics from the First Health Project that ensured a
    quick project take off.
l Project implementation manuals were however, not put in place by project effectiveness and this
    negatively affected the take off of the project.
l Lessons learned from previous projects particularly the First Health Project, were taken into account in
    the design of DHSP but not to a satisfactory level. The project was for example, complex contrary to
    lessons and recommendations from FHP.

2.           ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS

The project made a significant contribution to the revitalisation of the health sector. It introduced the
concept of the Essential Health Package (EHP) which is now the basis for planning and resource allocation.
There is now, as a result, more rational use of resources. The project also provided the financial resources
for delivering the EHP to district populations in the 13 and later 16 pilot districts. Support services such as
community mobilisation and IEC necessary for delivering the EHP were also supported.

In terms of capacity building, the project supported human resource and institutional development,
infrstustrctural and systems development and provision of logistics at the district and central levels. The
public health sector is now one of the most vibrant government institutions. DHSP also made a significant
contribution to the institutionalisation of the collaboration between public and private sectors in health care
delivery through support to NGOs.

The Project's institutional development impact is high. DHSP has enhanced the capacity of the health
sector to use human and material resources for improved health care delivery.

The sustainability of the project is rated as likely because many of the reforms and initiatives started or
supported under the project are now part of the HSSP and have already been integrated in the regular
operations of the MOH through budget support and SWAp arrangements.



Overall the project achievement is rated as satisfactory




                                                      - 53 -

3.       BANK, BORROWER AND PARTNER PERFORMANCE

Bank

3.1      Lending

The Bank performance was satisfactory at identification and preparation phases. At the preparation phase,
the preparation team clearly identified the critical heath sector issues, which were consistent with
Government of Uganda's priorities in addressing heath care as reflected in the 1993-1996 Health Policy
and Plan and the Health Sector White Paper. The Bank also built partnership with other development
partners in supporting heath sector development some of whom funded the pre-investment studies and later
on agreed to co-finance the project.

During preparation, the Bank fielded a team with varied expertise. Technically, the project was well
prepared, and provided sufficiently detailed analysis and review of heath and other related issues in the
country. The preparation benefited from several reports and experiences from government and other donor
projects including previous IDA funded projects such as the First Health Project, the changing structure of
government arising from decentralization, the role of NGOs and the linkages with existing donor programs
support were reviewed and incorporated during preparation.

At appraisal, the Bank's performance was satisfactory. The Bank's appraisal mission included a team with
a comprehensive skills mix. At appraisal project institutional arrangements both at the center and districts,
phasing of project implementation, the role of the NGOs, linkages with existing heath sector programs
supported by other development partners were further reviewed and agreed with government. These,
particularly NGO participation were later to prove useful during project implementation. Key relevant
safeguard policies were discussed and agreed with government including necessary actions government
needed to undertake to ensure successful project implementation.


3.2      Supervision

The Bank's performance was satisfactory as the Bank met its formal supervision requirement of twice a
year during project implementation and was able to develop good rapport and working relations with the
government team. This ensured timely and adequate follow up of agreed actions and early resolution of
emerging issues. DHSP was a complex project whose successful implementation would not been possible
without a very supportive IDA task team. In the initial years, supervision missions involving
comprehensive teams took on average two weeks. This ensured that adequate support was given to the
PCO and other implementers and emerging problems resolved promptly. The duration and composition of
supervision missions was to reduce markedly in last two years due to the recruitment of a health specialist
in the country office who ensured continuous support to the PCO. Several of the programmes supported by
the project became part of the joint GOU-Donor Joint reviews of the health sector towards the end of the
project.

3.3      Overall Bank performance
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. During identification, preparation, and appraisal the
Bank fielded comprehensive teams with appropriate skill mix and incorporated other development partners.
Supervision teams included the required expertise and local bank staff who continuously monitored project
activities. These ensured good working relations between the government and Bank staff.




                                                      - 54 -

 Borrower

 3.4     Preparation

 The Borrower's performance in lending is rated as satisfactory. During preparation the Borrower provided
 the necessary leadership and support to the Bank that facilitated project development. The availability of
 the health policy and plan, 1993-1996 and the White Paper on Health developed with active participation
 of stakeholders were especially beneficial. The Borrower facilitated wide participation of stakeholders in
 preparation including the development partners. Because of these government was able to raise USD
 17.4M from some of the donors to co- finance the project.

 3.5     Government Implementation performance

 The government's overall performance is rated as satisfactory. This is based on the fact that government
 fulfilled most of the key conditions of the credit.

 3.6     Implementing Agency:

 The performance of the Implementing Agency- Ministry of Health is rated as satisfactory. The competent
 leadership from the MoH boosted implementation of project activities including compilation and
 preparation of timely and comprehensive reports. While there were substantial delays with procurement
 and disbursement in the early stages of the project implementation, once the PCO had mastered IDA
 procedures, these were largely resolved resulting in improved disbursement and project implementation.
 Despite the above delays, which were compounded by the closure of some banks where the project held
 accounts, the project closed as scheduled on 31st December 2002. There are adequate arrangements in
 place for sustainability and smooth transition to SWAP/budget support arrangements through which the
 Health Sector Strategic Plan is being implemented.

3.7        Overall Borrower performance:

Overall Borrower performance is assessed as satisfactory. Over the life of the project the government
maintained its leadership and commitment to heath care delivery and overall health sector reform which
greatly contributed to success of the project.

3.8        Partner Performance

The project was co-funded by the Government of Sweden through SIDA and the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany through KfW.

i)       SIDA: The performance of SIDA is rated as very satisfactory. SIDA provided three technical
         advisers who were very instrumental in the implementation of the project and overall reform of the
         health sector. SIDA promptly responded to issues raised.
ii)      KfW: The performance of KfW is also rated as very satisfactory. KfW provided technical
         support and was prompt in releasing funds and responding to issues raised. No KfW funds were
         cancelled because the KfW agreement expired only after all the KfW funds had been utilized.




                                                     - 55 -

4.       Key Lessons Learned

i)       In the design of a project, it is vital to assess the capacity of other support systems even when they
are under other sectors. For DHSP, it was envisaged that the Ministries of Local Government and Finance
had or would build the financial management capacity of districts. This was not the case and DHSP had to
embark on the training of local government accounts staff whose role was vital in project implementation.

ii)      A public sector project that has a major focus on reforms is very sensitive to the political
environment. An assessment of the political climate is vital in the design and implementation of such a
project like DHSP.

iii)     A decentralized project requires more flexibility in design because of the dynamics of the local
government environment. The size of the special account for example, should be more carefully determined
to take into account the longer replenishment cycle associated with a decentralized project.

iv)      Effective donor coordination is vital for the improved performance of the health sector. During the
life of DHSP, districts were burdened by multiple planning and reporting arrangements of different un
coordinated donors.

vi)      Considerable time is required for lessons to be learnt from a pilot on the basis of which a
         demonstration is made. This was not considered in the design of DHSP where pilot and
         demonstration components were distinct.

vii)     Many of the factors that determine health outcomes are outside the control of the health sector.
         While DHSP provided resources for delivery of EHP, it had no control over the recruitment and
         payment of health workers or ability of the population to pay for heath services. These factors are
         critical to health care delivery.

viii)    For capacity building in health to lead to improved heath care, it must be holistic and coordinated.
DHSP had little to do regarding an important aspect of capacity building for improved health care namely,
recruitment and motivation of health workers. Laboratory equipment has been provided to some health
facilities without laboratory personnel.

ix)      The monitoring and evaluation strategy including monitoring indicators needs to be agreed well in
         advance. The monitoring of the project was negatively affected by the failure, due partly to lack
         conceptual concurrence, in resolving this vital issue.

x)       The Civil Society is a viable partner with government in the delivery of health services. Effective
         and resourceful Civil Society Organizations are however few. To reap the benefits of working with
         Civil Society Organizations, there is need to relax regulations for example, in procurement. Under
         DHSP, NGOs found it difficult to procure through the Local Government Tender Board.

xi)      Vertical programs need to be minimized or eliminated completely if a decentralized health care
delivery system is to function effectively. Vertical programs affected implementation of the project, which
in accordance with the policy of decentralization, supported districts to develop, approve and implement
their integrated workplans.




                                                        - 56 -

- 57 -

