Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
TF020052
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2679 UG
Swedish Grant Agreement
(District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project)
between
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds provided by
THE KINGDOM OF SWEDEN
Dated September 30, 1996
TF020052
AGREEMENT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2679 UG
SWEDISH GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1996, between THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA (the 
Grantee) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as 
Administrator (the Administrator) of the Swedish Grant, (as hereinafter defined) 
provided by the Kingdom of Sweden (Sweden).
WHEREAS: (A) Sweden has agreed to make available a grant (the Swedish Grant) 
through the Administrator, to the Grantee to assist in the financing of the District 
Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project (the Project) described in Schedule 2 
to the Development Credit Agreement dated April 19, 1995, (the Development Credit 
Agreement) between the Grantee and the Association, on the terms and conditions 
hereinafter set forth;
(B)
by a letter agreement dated March 22, 1996 and April 10, 1996 between 
Sweden and the Association (the Administration Agreement), Sweden has requested the 
Association, and the Association has accepted, to administer the Swedish Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement;
(C)
the Grantee acknowledges that the financial assistance extended to the 
Grantee under this Agreement (the Swedish Grant Agreement) shall be considered as part 
of the bilateral develop\1fment aid extended by Sweden to the Grantee; and
(D)
the Administrator has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing 
Page  2
to extend the Swedish Grant to the Grantee in support of the Project, upon the terms 
and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement subject, however, to the following modifications 
thereof:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Swedish Grant 
pursuant to the Administration Agreement, except in the phrase "member of the 
Association" in Sections 2.01 (5), 4.02 (b) and 6.02 (e);
(b)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grantee;
(c)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Swedish Grant Agreement;
(d)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Swedish Grant;
(e)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the trust account opened by the Administrator in its books in the name of the Grantee 
to which the amount of the Swedish Grant is credited (the Trust Account);
(f)
in Section 6.02 the term "Association" shall also include the Association 
acting in its own capacity;
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
 "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date, or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Grantee 
and the 
Administrator, the Grantee shall prepare and furnish to the 
Administrator a 
report of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the 
activities referred to in the 
Preamble to the Swedish Grant Agreement, 
the performance by the Grantee and the 
Administrator of their 
respective obligations under the Swedish Grant 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Swedish Grant."; and
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 
and Article XII are deleted.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the Administration 
Agreement, and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings; and
"Swedish Kroner" or "SEK" means the currency of Sweden.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Grantee, on the terms 
and conditions herein set forth or referred to, a grant in an amount of fifty million 
Swedish Kroner (SEK 50,000,000) or such other amount as shall have been made available 
by Sweden to the Administrator for this purpose pursuant to the Administration 
Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Swedish Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Page  3
Trust Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as 
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Grantee and 
the Administrator for expenditures made (or if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required for the 
Project.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the 
Grantee on goods and services or in the importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply thereof.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Swedish Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that the 
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Swedish Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way 
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Administrator under 
this Agreement, by notice to the Grantee, cancel such amount of the Swedish Grant as, 
in the Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Swedish Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Grantee 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Grantee declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, with due diligence and 
efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and public 
health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Grantee shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Grantee shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator, as soon as avail\1fable, but 
in any case not later than six months after the end of 
each 
such year, a certified copy of the report of such 
audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other informa\1ftion 
concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof 
as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Page  4
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Trust 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Grantee shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accor\1fdance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts 
reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator 
has received the audit for the fiscal year in which the 
last 
withdrawal from the Trust Account was made, all 
records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date first above 
written and shall continue in effect until the Swedish Grant has been fully disbursed 
and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Representative; Transfer of Rights
and Obligations
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Planning of the Grantee shall 
be the representative of the Grantee for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Grantee:
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
P.O. Box 8147
Kampala, Uganda
Cable address:
Telex:
FINSEC
61170
Kampala
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 INDEVAS
248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
Page  5
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
Section 6.03. In accordance with the provisions of the Administration Agreement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to Sweden. The Grantee accepts and agrees that, upon notice by the 
Administrator to the Grantee to that effect, Sweden shall, ipso facto, from the date 
specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the 
Administrator under this Agree\1fment as if Sweden had been an original party to this 
Agreement, without any further action or formality being required on the part of any 
party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By  /s/ Jehoash Mayanja-Nkangi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by the Kingdom of Sweden
By /s/  Callisto E. Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Swedish Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Swedish Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Swedish Grant to 
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each 
Category:
Amount of the
      Grant Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
 Expenditures
Category              
    SEK)       
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
100% of foreign
expenditures and 80%
of local expenditures
(a) for Part A of 
2,000,000
    the Project
(b) for Part B of
5,000,000
    the Project
Page  6
(2)
Training
      33,000,000
90% 
(3)
Vehicles
      10,000,000
      __________
TOTAL
      50,000,000
      ==========
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
