Report No. PID10336
Project Name                     Yugoslavia (Serbia / Montenegro)-Private...
Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           ECSPF
Project ID                       YFSF74145
Borrower                         Government of Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Privatization of Serbia
16 Srpshih vladara St.
Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Phone 381 11 3617 699
fax. 381 11 3617 640
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           May 9, 2001
Date Initial PID Prepared        April 10, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 2000
Projected Board Date             N/A
1. Country and Sector Background
The real sector in Yugoslavia is in very poor condition. The past decade
brought macroeconomic instability, the loss of markets and contacts, and
isolation from technological advances. As a result, FRY embarks on its
renewed transition with a state-and socially-owned enterprise sector that is
thoroughly accustomed to soft budget constraints and, as a result,
inefficiently organized, substantially loss-making and excessively indebted.
The private enterprise sector, mainly composed of SMEs, has been much more
dynamic and profitable. However, it is small and severely constrained by
overregulation and an uneven playing field tilted towards the larger and
socially owned companies. To deal with the severely deteriorated situation
in the larger firms, and to unleash the potential in the private sector,
reform is urgently needed in two areas:
- Launching a multi-track strategy to address the problems of state and
socially owned enterprises. This will include the privatization sale
of entire companies, the reorganization of some firms prior to
privatization, liquidations leading to sales of assets, and workouts to
identify and extract viable business lines from a select set of failing
firms -- generally the very large and those of acute social importance
-- to put them back into production again.
- Improving the business environment by removing unnecessary bureaucratic
obstacles to the entry and growth of new private firms (generally
recognized in all transition countries as the primary engine of growth
and job creation), developing a network of supportive institutions,
enhancing access to capital and improving the investment climate for
FDI.



Such reforms would help Yugoslavia meet the challenge of restoring economic
growth. Near-term growth would be spurred by some "early win"
privatizations of medium-sized firms, reduced barriers to business
development, improved access to credit, and improved instructional capacity
to facilitate foreign investment and SME support new foreign investment law.
Other reforms (the bulk of privatizations, legal and judicial reform,
government support for SMEs) would have a more substantial impact in the
medium-term.
2. Project Objectives
The objective of the proposed project is to provide urgent assistance to
Serbia in an effort to jump-start production and economic activity and to
unleash the potential of the private sector. Specifically, the project would:
a. Support the rapid privatization of thirty-four important firms through
internationally accepted methods;
b. Strengthen the capacity of the Agency for Privatization to undertake a
complex privatization program; and
c. Support foreign investment and the deregulation of the business
environment by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Agencies
for Foreign Investment and for SME Development, which will supervise the
implementation of the new liberalized policies.
The proposed project is envisaged as a first step, "early win" operation
with a limited goal of helping to build up institutional capacity and human
capital, as well as FRY's international reputation, in preparation for the
larger structural reform effort. In that light, this project has an
intentionally narrow focus and does not address the comprehensive reform of
the business environment, which will be the subject of future assistance by
the Bank and other donors.
3.   Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Because of limited Bank resources for Serbia and the large financing role of
other donors, our strategy is based on two principles: (i) investing in areas
where the Bank has a comparative advantage; and (ii) investing in strategic
areas for private sector development. The Bank has extensive knowledge and
experience in the privatization process in formerly communist countries. It
is in a unique position to furnish best practices advice on privatization and
to help in the design of privatization programs and supervision of their
execution. Recent Bank experience in designing and supervising case-by-case
privatization programs in Latvia and Lithuania and designing, financing and
supervising case-by-case programs in Uzbekistan and Romania have provided
invaluable experience. FIAS has extensive experience in helping the
governments identify the essential attributes of a sound investment
environment. The World Bank Group SME Department is well positioned to
provide expertise and advice based on international best practices in the
four key areas of SME support: business environment for SMEs, access to
finance, capacity building and information technology. Southeast Europe
Enterprise Development facility, established and managed with the IFC
participation, will provide continuity of the WBG efforts for small business
support. The World Bank will also assist in implementation of the project
through hands-on supervision and imparting knowledge of Bank procurement
methods to FRY counterparts.
4. Description
The proposed grant will have four main components.
-2 -



i) Privatization of State and Socially Owned Enterprises: Under this
component, funding will be provided for technical assistance to support
rapid privatization of important firms through case-by-case and pool
privatization techniques using internationally reputed investment banks
and sales agents hired through internationally competitive tender\
ii) Program for strengthening the capacity of the Agency for Privatization:
The component will provide technical assistance to build up
institutional competence to undertake the complex government component
of running a successful privatization program by Agency for
Privatization.
iii) Assisting the Agency for Foreign Investment and the Agency for SME
Support: This component will finance the following activities:
- advisory services to establish a Foreign Investment Agency in an
effort to attract foreign investment, including (i) a review of
relevant laws and regulations; (ii) support for training of the
Agency staff; and (iii) technical assistance to develop a targeted
investment promotion strategy once the business environment is
conducive enough and the investment promotion agency is active on
the ground.
- Assistance to the Agency for SME support, including (i) technical
assistance to support finalization of the design of comprehensive
and balanced SME support strategy and prioritization of SME support
programs, based on the internationally proven best practices; and
(ii) support for training of the Agency staff and key staff of its
regional networks.
iv)     Project Implementation Support: This component will support the project
implementation capacity.
5. Financing
Total project cost is estimated at US$7.0 mln. Bank financing will be in the
amount of US$7.0 million, and would finance consultant services, training and
equipment. Counterpart funding is expected to be in the form of tax
exemptions and in-kind contributions for the agencies involved.
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over an thirty months period. The Ministry of
Economy and Privatization (MOEP) is the main counterpart for the project. The
overall coordination of the project would rest with the Project Management
Unit (PMU), which has been established in the MOEP. The PMU will move to the
Privatization Agency, once this Agency has been established. The PMU will be
headed by a Director (currently the Deputy Minister of MOEP)), who will have
overall responsibility for the project. He will be assisted by a Project
Administrator (currently the Advisor to the Minister) who will oversee the day
to day operations of the project. The PMU director will ensure that all
project objectives and monitorable targets as specified in the PIP are on
track and achieved. Technical expertise on a short term basis will be provided
to the Project Administrator as and when required. The PMU, apart from the
Project Administrator, has a procurement specialists, and an accountant.     The
PMU will be responsible for the day to day operations of the project,
procurement and financial management, including reporting to the Government
and to the Bank.
7. Sustainability
The grant will support PSD reform programs for privatization and in business
- 3 -



development that will enhance both Serbia's short and long-term prospects for
economic growth and development. The bulk of the country's economy is still
state hands or socially held and the initiatives put forward in this document
will start the country on the necessary path to industrial reform and
progress. In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, all of these actions
will promote development of a market-based economy with stronger governance,
management, transparency and participation, leading to sustainable economic
growth.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank experience in other transition economies has demonstrated that
adequate institutional framework is an essential condition for the success of
broad-based structural reforms. Lessons learned in the transition process
indicate that institutional reform should be a key component of an early
assistance strategy. Accordingly, the proposed grant emphasizes developing
the local institutional capacity, thus creating the foundation for the future
structural reforms
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has been placed in
Category "C" and does not require an environment assessment.
Contact Point:
InfoShop
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
E-Mail: pic@worldbank.org
Project Team Leader
Itzhak Goldberg
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 473-6289
Fax No.:   (202) 522-0073
Note:     This is information on an evolving project.    Certain components may
not necessarily be included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 4 -



