Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 22321 YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$6.0 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANT
June 28, 2001
Private and Financial Sector Development
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 27, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar
1 Din. = US$0.0143
US$1 = 69.9 Din.
RECIPIENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS  -  Country Assistance Strategy
CFA  -  Central Fiscal Authority
CPA  -  Central Procurement Authority
CPO  -  Cash Payment Offices
DFID - Department of International Development
DTI -  Department of Trade and Industry
EAR  -  European Agency for Reconstruction
EBRD - European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EIA  -  Environmental Impact Assessment
ERTP  -  Economic Recovery and Translation Program
EU  -  European Union
FDI -  Foreign Direct Investment
FIAS - Foreign Investment Advisory Services
FMS  -  Financial Management System
FRY  -  Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
FY  -  Fiscal Year
GTZ  -  German Technical Cooperation
IAS  -  International Accounting Standards
IC  -  Individual Consultant
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
ICSID - International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
ICU  -  Interim Credit Unit
IDA  -  Intemational Development Administration (World Bank)
IFAC - International Federation of Accountants
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IFI - International Financial Institutions
Vice President: Joharnes F. Linn
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman
Sector Director: Paul Siegelbaum
Task Manager: Itzhak Goldberg



IPO - Initial Public Offering
IS - International Shopping
ISA - International Standards on Auditing
IT - Information Technology
LACI      Loan Administration Change Initiative
LIB - Limited International Bidding
MEBO  -  Management Employee Buy Out
MFER - Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
MOEP - Ministry of Economy and Privatization
MOF - Ministry of Finance
MOT - Ministry of Trade
NBY - National Bank of Yugoslavia
NS - National Shopping
PAD - Project Appraisal Document
PAS - Procurement Accredited Specialist
PIP - Project Implementation Plan
PIU  -  Implementation Completion Report
PMR - Project Management Report
PMU - Project Management Unit
PPF - Project Preparation Facility
PSD - Private Sector Development
QCBS - Quality and Cost Based Selection
RPA - Regional Procurement Assistance
SA - Special Account
SAC - Structural Adjustment Credit
SBCQ - Selection Based on Consultant Qualification
SITPA - Serbian Investment and Trade Promotion Agency
SME - Small and Medium Enterprise
SOE - Socially Owned Enterprises
TOR - Terms of Reference
TSS - Transitional Support Strategy






FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A.       PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE  ....................................................2
1.    Project Development Objective ......................................................2
2.    Key Performance Indicators ......................................................2
B.        STRATEGIC  CONTEXT ......................................................3
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy goal ............................................3
2.    Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy ................................................3
3.    Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices ............1  1
C.    PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY                                          ..................................... 12
1.    Project Components .....................................................                           12
2.    Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project .................. 14
3.    Benefits and Target Population .....................................................               14
4.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements .......................................... 15
D.       PROJECT  RATIONALE .....................................................                                  16
1.    Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejections ....................... 16
2.   Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other
Development Agencies ...........................................                                  17
3.     Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design .................................. 17
4.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ................................. 18
5.    Value Added to Bank Support in this Project ...........................................   19
E.   SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS                                          ..                     ......................... 19
1. Economic ..................                                                                           19
2. Financial ..................1  9
3. Technical ..................                                                                          19
4.  Institutional ..................                                                                     20
5. Social ..................                                                                             21
6. Environmental ..................                                                                      22
7.  Participatory Approach ..................                                                            22
8.  Checklist of Bank Policies ..................                                                       22
9.  Safeguard Policies ..................                                                                22
10. Business Policies ........................                                                          23
F.   SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS                                       ........................ 23
1. Sustainability ........                                                                               23






FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA REGIONAL OFFICE
ECSPF
Date: June 28, 2001                             Team Leader: Itzhak Goldberg
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman           Sector Manager: Ira Lieberman
Project ID: P074145                             Sector: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Grant    Theme(s): Institution Building
Poverty Targeted             []  Yes [X] No
Intervention:
Proiect Financing Data
[ ]   Loan   [ ]  Credit        [X] Grant       [  Guarantee   [ ]           Other [Specify]
]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Project Cost US$ mln    7.0           Cofinancing: N/A   Contact person: Itzhak Goldberg
(ECSPF) E-mail: igoldberg@worldbank.org
Total Bank Financing US$ mln   6.0
Borrower: N.A.
Guarantor: N.A.
Implementing Agencies:      Republic of Serbia - Ministry of Economy and Privatization
Contact person:             Deputy Minister Mirko Cvetkovic, Republic of Serbia - Ministry of Economy
and Privatization of Serbia
Address: Srpskih vladara 16    Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beograd 11000, Yugoslavia
Tel: 381 11 361 7599           Fax: 381 11 361 7640    E-mail: mirko.cvetkovic@mpriv.sr.gov.yu
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY        2001    2002       2003
Annual     0.3     4.0      1.7
Cumulative  0.3    4.3      6.0
Responsible agency: Republic of Serbia - Ministry of Economy and Privatization
Project implementation period: 07/01/01 to 12/31/03 - 30 months: FY02-FY03



A: PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1.    Project development objective (see Annex 1)
The objective of the proposed project is to provide urgent assistance to the Republic of
Serbia in an effort to jump-start private sector production and economic activity, and to
unleash the potential of the private sector. Specifically, the project would:
a.    Support the rapid privatization of approximately 27 important firms through
internationally accepted methods, using best practices that ensure
transparency, competitive tendering, and appropriate sales techniques for the
companies being privatized;
b.    Strengthen the capacity of the Republic of Serbia Agency for Privatization to
undertake a complex privatization program using best practices; and
c.    Support foreign investment and the deregulation of the business environment
by strengthening the institutional capacity of the Republic of Agencies for
Foreign Investment, for Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Development,
and the SME Department of the Ministry of Economy and Privatization,
which will supervise the implementation of the new liberalized policies.
The proposed project is envisaged as a first step, "early win" operation with a limited
goal of helping to build up institutional capacity and human capital and improving the
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia's (FRY) international reputation in preparation for the
larger structural reform effort. This project, therefore, has an intentionally narrow focus
and does not address the comprehensive reform of the business environment, which will
be the subject of future assistance by the Bank and other donors.
2.    Key performance indicators (see Annex 1)
The grant will finance consultant services, training, and equipment.  Progress in
achieving the development objective will be assessed on the basis of:
a.    number of firms privatized and the levels of participation by strategic
investors;
b.   improved performance and competence of the Agency for Privatization to
number of sales agents hired, and the number of companies privatized by
the Agency outside the scope of the Project; and
c.   the institutional capacity of the Agency for Foreign Investment as
reflected in the number of foreign investors' inquiries processed by the
Agency and the institutional capacity of the Agency for SME
Development as reflected in the number of SMEs assisted by the Agency
network.



-3 -
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1.    Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the
project
The proposed project is consistent with the Memorandum to the Executive Directors of
IBRD and IDA on the Proposed Trust Fund for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
approved by the Board on March 30, 2001 and the Transition Support Strategy (TSS) for
the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, approved by the Board on May 8, 2001. The TSS
recognizes that growth will be led by the private sector and calls for the rapid
privatization of most viable firms and the creation of a legal and institutional framework
to support the development of an adequate business environment. The TSS also calls for
investing in improved governance and effective institutions; thus the emphasis of this
project on a transparent privatization process-establishing good corporate governance
through strategic investors and supporting three government agencies-is consistent with
the TSS priorities. This project will lay the groundwork for the Private and Financial
Structural Adjustment Credit (PFSAC) proposed in the TSS, which would focus on
improving the business climate and encouraging enterprise privatization and restructuring
as well as banking reform. Specifically, building the capacity of the Privatization
Agency is essential for the privatization and restructuring processes envisaged under the
PFSAC.
The project will support the implementation of the Performance Benchmarks under FRY
TSS (FY02) and the "structural benchmarks" under the IMF Stand-by Arrangement
(April 2001-March 2002).
The proposed project was developed in close collaboration with the Bank's Foreign
Investment Advisory Services (FIAS) team and the SME Department. The project is
consistent with the Private Sector Development (PSD) strategy for FRY, as discussed
with the Government, European Union (EU), European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (EBRD), and other donor partners. An informal donor conference has
taken place during the appraisal mission with participation by the following donors:
EBRD, USAID, GTZ, European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), and representatives
of the Italian, Swiss, and Greek governments.
Relevant Documents: World Bank/European Commission, Economic Recovery and
Transition Program (ERTP), May 2001; World Bank TSS, May 2001; IMF Stand-by
Arrangement, April 2001; WBG SME Department SME Country Mapping, April 2001;
EBRD Action Plan, April 2001.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy
a.    Background
The real sector in Yugoslavia is in very poor condition. The past decade brought
macroeconomic instability, the loss of markets and contacts, and isolation from



- 4 -
technological advances. It also retarded the evolution of market-oriented ownership
structures that had begun to emerge at the end of the 1980s. As a result, FRY embarked
on its renewed transition with a state and socially owned enterprise sector that is
thoroughly accustomed to soft budget constraints and, as a result, inefficiently organized,
substantially loss-making, and excessively indebted. The private enterprise sector,
mainly composed of SMEs, has been much more dynamic and profitable. However, it is
small and severely constrained by over-regulation and an uneven playing field tilted
towards the larger and socially owned companies. Repressive regulation has pushed
much economic activity into the "gray" or informal economy, while the uneven playing
field has resulted in a severe lack of investment and working capital. To deal with the
severely deteriorated situation in the larger firms, and to unleash the potential in the
private sector, reform is urgently needed in two areas and can be achieved by:
i.  Launching a multi-track strategy to address the problems of state and socially
owned enterprises. This will include the privatization of entire companies, the
reorganization of some firms prior to privatization, liquidations leading to sales of
assets, and workouts to identify and extract viable business lines from a select set
of failing firms -- generally the very large and those of acute social importance --
to put them back into production.
ii.  Improving the business environment by removing unnecessary bureaucratic
obstacles to the entry and growth of new private firms (generally recognized in all
transition countries as the primary engine of growth and job creation), developing
a network of supportive institutions, enhancing access to capital and improving
the investment climate for FDI.
Such reforms would help Yugoslavia meet the challenge of restoring economic growth.
Near-term growth would be spurred by some "early win" privatizations of medium-sized
firms, reduced barriers to business development, improved access to credit, and improved
institutional capacity to facilitate foreign investment and SME support. Other reforms
(the bulk of privatizations, legal and judicial reform, government support for SMEs)
would have a more substantial impact in the medium-tenn.
b.    State and Socially Owned Enterprises
The striking difference in profitability (and by implication, productivity) between the
private and the non-private sectors is the cornerstone for the proposed strategy of
enterprise reform:
i.  Selling to strategic investors what is marketable. The privatization process in
Serbia has so far lacked both quality (focusing particularly on sales to insiders)
and speed (few firms have been sold). The Republic of Serbia government is
addressing these problems through a complete overhaul of the privatization
process. The immediate priority is the adoption of a new privatization law to
replace the flawed Act on Ownership Transformation. To attract core owners
capable of undertaking efficient restructuring, investment, and good corporate



governance under hard budget constraints, the new law will require a majority of
capital to be offered for sale to strategic outside investors. In parallel, the new
law requires new institutional arrangements. These include a clear separation of
the roles of the Privatization Ministry (policy formulation, drafting of laws and
supporting regulations, establishment of a robust privatization program) and of a
new Agency for Privatization to implement the privatization program (see below).
ii.  Breaking up non-marketable, failing firms and putting their assets to
productive use. Thousands of socially owned enterprises may fail to attract
strategic external investors when offered as is. Such firms can only play a
productive role in the restructured economy if they are reconfigured into smaller
viable parts. This process will spin off business units to be acquired and run by
foreign and local entrepreneurs. The new Republic of Serbia Privatization Law
will include a provision allowing restructuring through out-of-court procedures
that run in parallel, but are separate from, formal bankruptcy procedures. This
provision will also facilitate privatization of companies that must be restructured
before sale because they are too complex in organization, or are encumbered by
debt that must be worked out.
c.    Improvement of the Privatization Law
The first Yugoslav privatization law was passed in 1989 and allowed experimentation
with private ownership in formerly socially owned enterprises. Under this law, workers
received the right to purchase a substantial percentage of a firm's capital, using a
generous installment payments plan, at large discounts. In 1991, Serbia passed its own
privatization law. However, in 1994, an amendment to the privatization law revalued
capital to take inflation into account. Because the law applied new, higher values to past
transactions, this had the effect of reversing much of the privatization that had taken
place. The upshot was popular discontent, extensive litigation, and a failed attempt at
privatization.
In July 1997, the Serbian Government adopted the Act on Ownership Transformation (the
Law in effect up to early 2001). Once again, the employees were to decide whether or
not to privatize, and, again, the terms were generous. Firms were permitted to distribute,
for free, 60 percent of their shares to employees, former employees, and pensioners. A
further 30 percent of shares were made available for sale (first, exclusively) to
employees, for cash, with a discount related to years of employment. Ten percent of the
shares in firms so privatized were transferred to the Serbian Pension Fund.
Given the major shortcomings of this Privatization Law, the new government of Serbia
suspended its operation in February 2001. However, approximately 1,000 enterprises
(out of more than 7,000 total) that had begun their privatization transformation will be
allowed to complete the process.  The government is not willing to reverse the
privatizations completed or substantially under way; to do so would have created major
political problems.



- 6 -
The new government of Serbia has adopted a radically different approach to
privatization. The government has drafted a new privatization law with assistance from
the World Bank, the EBRD, and Department of International Development (DFID). The
three characteristics that set apart the new approach from the previous one are: (i) it aims
to establish clearly defined ownership and dominant owners, offering at least 70 percent
of every enterprise to strategic investors; (ii) it does not give preferential treatment to
employees and management in the sale of enterprises; and (iii) it will be conducted under
strict rules that will emphasize the transparency of the entire process.
The shares reserved for employees and the Privatization Register, (to which 15 percent of
the shares in enterprises sold through tenders, will be transferred for eventual distribution,
free of charge, to citizens at large), will not be allocated until after the sale of capital (to
an investor) has taken place. This sequencing is important because experience shows that
a sale to a core investor should precede any free allocation of shares to employees or to
the public.
Given FRY's recent history and present investment climate, however, it is clear that a
large number of firms will not easily attract core external investors. The proposed
Privatization Law allows restructuring outside the bankruptcy courts. This provision is
important for the privatization of companies that must be restructured before sale because
they are too complex in organization; for example, disparate lines of business attracting
different buyers or companies encumbered by debt that must be worked out.
d.    Strengthening the Capacity of the Agencyfor Privatization
The Government of Serbia has reorganized its Ministry of Economy and Privatization
(MEOP). The primary role of the Ministry is policy formulation, such as drafting the
new privatization law and the supporting regulations and ensuring that a robust
privatization program is put in place and implemented. Complementing the Ministry, the
Govemment has submitted to Parliament a Law on the Privatization Agency that would
have implementation responsibility for the privatization program. The Agency will be
reporting to the MEOP, and it will carry out the privatization and restructuring of Serbian
state and social capital firns under the new Privatization Law. The advantage of creating
such an agency is that it can attract necessary talent from the private sector, pay market
wages, and be more easily dissolved when the substantial part of the privatization and
restructuring agenda has been implemented.
The Agency will have three functional responsibilities:
i.  Tenders: The larger, more attractive enterprises will be sold through a tender
process where they are handled on a case-by-case basis, adequate documentation
is prepared, and the companies are sold through competitive tender for cash.
Seventy percent of the companies' shares will be offered to strategic investors to
assure that the companies attract a qualified owner. All the companies privatized



- 7 -
through the Bank's program for case-by-case privatization will be sold through
the tender mechanism.
ii.  Auctions: Auctions will be used for the bulk of the companies. It is expected that
most of the sales will be through cry-out auctions for cash.
iii.  Restructuring through out-of-court procedures:  This method will allow the
privatization of companies too unattractive, as is, to attract satisfactory buyers.
Under this methodology, companies can be reorganized and restructured and their
commercial parts sold, either through asset sales or through the sale of shares in
reorganized companies or parts of companies.
Working in coordination with MEOP, the Agency will also prepare and implement an
effective public education plan to inform the population of the modalities of the
government's privatization prograrn and its benefits (see Appendix 7 in the PIP for the
draft Public Education Plan).
The government is in the process of finding resources to staff the Agency for
Privatization and to supply it with necessary financial resources to carry out the country's
comprehensive privatization program.
e. Improvement of the Foreign Investment Climate and Assistance to SMEs
If FRY continues its recent reform momentum, it will want to position itself as a new,
efficient, and low-cost location for foreign investors seeking to serve European markets.
It can and should try to attract export-oriented FDI and develop a vibrant SME sector.
Creating a stable, neutral, and efficient environment for business should bring in new
investment and improve the productivity of existing investment. Higher levels of
investment and productivity are key to stimulating growth in FRY and raising standards
of living.
Improving foreign investment climate
The Bank's FIAS has been working with the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations
(MFER) on a revision of the Federal Foreign Investment Law. The redrafted Law is
currently being delayed by discussions with the federal government, but it is hoped that it
could receive final assent by early Autumn of 2001.
The main remaining problem in the new Foreign Investment Law is the constitutional
constraint, which requires "reciprocity" for foreign investment, namely the requirement
that Serbian residents must be permitted to invest in the country of the foreign investor
seeking to invest in Serbia. Most Central European countries no longer limit the entry of
foreign investors based on reciprocity. To satisfy what is a constitutional requirement,
the MFER has prepared a negative list of countries with whom Serbia does not have
reciprocity, and the intention is that investors from these countries will need to register
(using an automatic, time-bound, and consent-by-silence approach) with the MFER



- 8 -
before registering in court. If, in the future, the constitution is amended, this extra
registration with the MFER can be dropped.
The new Law includes a number of other important changes: (i) The removal of the
existing condition for special approval if more than 49 percent ownership is planned; (ii)
the introduction of clear procedures for access to international arbitration, including a
fresh application to join the International Center for the Settlement of Investment
Disputes (ICSID); and (iii) the removal of distortionary incentives.
The Serbian Government is also in the process of establishing an Agency for the
Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment, under the MFER. The Govermnent has made
several important decisions in this context:
i.  In February 2001 a new joint function agency - Serbian Investment and Trade
Promotion Agency (SITPA) - was created by Government decree.
ii. In April 2001 a public announcement was made that an Executive Director
had been appointed to the new agency;
iii. A decision has been made to locate the new agency (at least initially) directly
within the MFER; and
iv.  A decision has apparently been made to start off with a total staff number of
some 8 - 10, possibly growing to 15 - 20 after one year.
In May 2001 a joint FIAS/MIGA mission held discussions with the Ministry and with the
new Executive Director, and advised on both the organization and structuring of the new
agency. In particular, FIAS/MIGA advised caution on a number of key issues:
First, that there were possible dangers in locating the agency directly within the
Ministry - SITPA will need to develop a private sector culture with the requisite
skills and methodologies for dealing with private foreign investors, and requiring
the hiring of staff with private sector experience. This will be a very different
type of organization from a mainstream Ministry and co-location has, in the cases
of other promotion agencies, caused considerable tensions. A better solution
would be to work towards a quasi-govemment status for SITPA.
Second, the creation of a joint function investment and trade promotion agency,
although making sense in cost efficiency terms, will also raise some difficult
issues for them. The two activities are essentially very different - with different
client groups, different activities, requiring different skills, marketing strategies
and messages - and although there are examples of agencies around the world
that house both functions, those that are successful have strived very hard to keep
the two functions quite separate from each other.
Third, the planned staffing numbers appear somewhat light for a joint function
agency. The number of 8 - 10 staff is unlikely to allow them to undertake the full
range of activities needed for both investment and trade promotion.



On foreign investment promotion, FIAS/MIGA have advised that this should be a full-
service promotion agency to facilitate entry for foreign investors, marketing the country
to potential investors, working to improve its image by effective diffusion of good news
about improvements in FRY, and attracting specific potential investors through a focused
and pro-active promotional effort. The agency should provide a full facilitation service
for interested investors and should also provide an aftercare service for existing foreign
investors in Serbia. Finally, the agency will have an important role to play in providing
the Government with continuous and reliable feedback about potential difficulties or
shortcomings in the policy, legal, and administrative framework related to FDI. Through
this policy advocacy function, such an agency will become an important element in the
policy reform process.
The legal framework within which the new agency will be placed is as yet unclear, as is
its formal mandate from the Government. Some further work is necessary to clarify and
formalize these arrangements as, without them, the agency will experience difficulties in
the future in terms of its relationships within government and the private sector.
Similarly, as the new agency enters the start-up phase, it will need advice on issues
relating to organization, structure, budget, and staffing.
Strong government commitment to devoting resources and giving institutional support to
the newly established agency over a period of years is essential for its effectiveness and
success. FIAS and MIGA have made proposals within this program to work with the
MFER to assist in establishing the basic foundations for the new agency, recognizing that
the government wishes to get the agency up and running as soon as possible.
FIAS/MIGA propose to work with the MFER on four broad areas:
i. The establishment of the Agency, which involves the creation of an appropriate
legal and regulatory environment and the draft of a new law for the formal
establishment of the agency, a mandate, and appropriate governance framework
for its operation;
ii. Assessment of the FDI environment, which involves undertaking a
comprehensive assessment and survey of business views and experiences
(separately funded by FIAS), recommendations for improvements in the business
environment and undertaking regular monitoring of improvements in the
environment;
iii. The development of a strategy and a one-year and three-year business plan for the
agency, including the development of sector targets and sector marketing plans,
promotion materials, outreach activities; and
iv. The development of the Agency's promotion capacity, which involves the
provision of networked computer equipment, the development and production of
promotion materials, the development and implementation of investor facilitation
systems and transport, and the design of an internet strategy.
Government assistance to SMEs
SMEs in FRY are burdened by a myriad of regulations governing their operations.
Deregulation is an immediate measure that can bring early success in stimulating



- 10-
economic growth without external resources. This could include simplification of
required reporting by SMEs to the Govermment; streamlining registration procedures,
reform of labor legislation and regulations (including allowing flexible hiring for part-
time, seasonal, and casual labor, and relaxation of the rigid benefits and severance
packages that hinder job creation); tax reform (especially by simplifying the system,
gradually lowering the rate of wage taxation to encourage official rather than informal
employment), and introducing a standard method for calculating lump sum tax (payments
for sole proprietorships); and ending all special privileges given to favored and selected
firms by the previous regime.
Policy reform in the deregulation area is complicated because the issues involved belong
to the jurisdiction of different ministries. In order to overcome this problem and initiate
immediate deregulation measures in the areas mentioned above, the SME Department of
the MOEP will propose to establish an inter-ministerial working group composed of
representatives of the MOF, MFER, Ministry of Trade (MOT), and other ministries that
have jurisdiction over regulatory issues. The objective of the working group is the
formulation of recommendations on deregulation, particularly in the areas of:  (i)
registration streamlining, in cooperation with USAID, (ii) labor legislation liberalization;
(iii) tax administration, including recommendations on the development guidelines for
lump sum tax calculation; (iv) elimination of administrative barriers and cumbersome
procedures of all kinds (decrease in reporting requirements, simplification of accounting
for SMEs, simplification of procedures for obtaining of building permits, etc.,
introduction of framework for controlling activity of inspections and other supervisory
bodies).
The challenge for the new Serbian government in supporting SMEs will be doing this
effectively without introducing new distortions into the economy. Many transition
governments have moved to highly interventionist SME strategies, including large
bureaucratic machinery supported by donor funding, and requirements for banks to
provide subsidized credits to SMEs. Most of these efforts have failed to work. Subsidies
are not sustainable. Most often, the scarce resources offered through subsidies are
allocated to the well-connected or those paying bribes, not those with the best
commercial potential. The planned establishment of a Serbian Small Business Agency is
welcome. This agency should be initially supported by government, but should seek to
operate on cost-recovery principles. Over time, the Agency should become self-
sustaining as an increasing percentage of its budget should come from fees for its services
from its private sector clients. It should create the sense of public-private partnership
with respect to SME development and facilitate an on-going business-government
dialogue on the issues of business concerns. The measures to achieve this could include
appointment of an Ombudsman in the Agency; the establishment of business advisory
council; and the holding of periodic open meetings between the government and the
private sector to transparently discuss changes in laws and regulations prior to their
enactment, and to any recurring problems faced by the sector; advertising widely all
proposed changes to laws and regulations; and conducting periodic surveys of small
businesses to ensure that policy measures and other actions have actually addressed
business needs.



- I1 -
The new Serbian Government has expressed its commitment for SME support through
the recent establishment of the SME Departrnent in the structure of the Ministry of
Economy and Privatization (MOEP), which will focus on the legal framework and
government policy for small business support. The Government is also planning the
creation of an operationally independent Agency for SME Development, which will be
authorized and responsible for implementation of the SME support strategy and particular
programs, as well as for setting up an institutional infrastructure that promotes creation
and growth of small enterprises. The SME Department and the Agency envisage their
priorities as monitoring small business health through: a number of research projects and
enterprise surveys; initiation of legislative amendments aimed at the elimination of
existing constraints for SME dynamic growth; creation and capacity building of the
regional network of SME support institutions capable of delivering consulting, training,
and information services that meet SME particular needs, facilitation of
internationalization and business-to-business links of SMEs. A draft Law on the
establishment of an Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises is being developed and
discussed. The Bank has been working with the MOEP to assist in establishing the
agency and to develop the program of capacity building for the agency and the SME
department of the Ministry. It coordinates its assistance with the EAR and other donors
interested in support for SME development in Serbia. A donors' working group met
during appraisal to coordinate comments on the proposed SME Agency Law. The donors
recommended that the management bodies of the Regional SME Agencies be controlled
by local organizations and that the Central Agency hold no more then 3/5 of the seats on
their boards. There is an urgent need for: (i) technical assistance with review of selected
legislation and establishment of the mechanism for de-regulation of business activities;
(ii) technical expertise to finalize the design of a comprehensive and balanced SME
support strategy and prioritization of SME support programs, based on internationally
proven best practices; (iii) capacity building of the Agency and its regional networks; and
(iv) training of the representatives of local authorities and other local stakeholders in the
design and implementation of the local economic development programs with the focus
on SME promotion.
3.    Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project provides technical assistance (consultant and advisory services), training, and
equipment to support the government's program to undertake important privatizations
early in its reform program to help increase the country's credibility and visibility, and to
improve the business and investment climate. Specifically, the project will address:
a. The need to privatize quickly and carefully the important firms through case-by-
case and pool privatization techniques using internationally reputed investment
banks or sale agents, in order to establish the government's commitment to the
new reform program. The implementation of this component will allow rapid
privatization of 27 enterprises in a transparent and effective manner that could
provide the government with initial public credibility essential for the long-term
sustainability of the country's comprehensive privatization program;



- 12 -
b. The lack of capacity to conduct tenders, auctions, and, for failing companies, out-
of-court restructuring and liquidations. The new Agency for Privatization will
need significant help to carry out its implementation responsibility for the
privatization program. This component aims at strengthening the understanding
by the Agency for Privatization staff of alternative privatization methods and
techniques, principles of enterprise valuation and alternative approaches to
valuation, privatization processes and procedures, working with financial advisors
and strengthening the capacity of Agency for Privatization to implement the
privatization program; and
c. The lack of capacity to improve the business climate as well as promote and
attract foreign investment. The implementation of this program will assist with
the capacity building of the SME Department and the establishment of an SME
Agency and a Foreign Investment Agency.
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1.    Project components (see Annex 2 for a Project Preparation Plan)
a.    Privatization of State and Socially Owned Enterprises
Under this component, funding will be provided for technical assistance to support rapid
privatization of important firms through case-by-case and pool privatization techniques
using internationally reputed investment banks and sales agents hired through
internationally competitive tenders. The assistance will cover the costs for the fixed fee
component for investment banks to undertake case-by-case and pool privatization of
large firms.
The fixed fees for investment banks will include other fees for lawyers and technical
specialists hired by the investnent banks to work on the privatizations.
b.    Agency for Privatization
The component will provide technical assistance to build up institutional competence to
undertake the complex task of running a successful privatization program by the Agency
for Privatization. The assistance will cover the following:
i. Advisory services for establishing the Agency for Privatization and for assisting
the Agency with technical know-how for the privatization program, for tendering
procedures, for auctioning procedures, for IPO procedures, for restructuring, and
for the valuation of companies;
ii.  Intensive, comprehensive training for the staff of the Agency for Privatization in,
inter alia, privatization methods and techniques, principles of enterprise
valuation, privatization processes and procedures, and how to work with financial
advisors;
iii. Drafting the new privatization regulations;



- 13 -
iv. Procurement of hardware and software for the operation of the Agency for
Privatization;
v.  Advisory services and goods for conducting a public relations campaign to
educate the general public on the benefits of privatization; and
vi. Advertising efforts for recruiting a first-rate international privatization consultant.
c.    Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME Support
This component will finance the following activities:
i. Advisory services to establish a Foreign Investment Agency in an effort to attract
foreign investment, including: (i) a review of relevant legal and regulatory
framework for the agency - recommendations for developing/strengthening the
institutional framework for investment promotion in the FRY; (ii) diagnostic
support to assess and improve the environment for FDI; (iii) technical assistance
to develop a targeted investment promotion strategy, including the identification
of key sector targets; (iv) support for the purchase of some basic computer
equipment and the production of promotion material; and (v) support for the
training of Agency staff.
ii. Assistance to the SME Department of the Ministry of Economy and Privatization
and support for establishment of the SME Agency, including: (i) a review of
relevant legislation and establishment of the mechanism for deregulation of
business activities; (ii) technical assistance to finalize the design of a
comprehensive and balanced SME support strategy and prioritization of SME
support programs, based on the internationally proven best practices; (iii) support
for the training of representatives of local authorities and other local stakeholders
in the design and implementation of the local economic development programs
with the focus on SME promotion; and (iv) support for the purchase of some basic
computer equipment
d.  Project Management and Implementation
This component will support the work of the Project Management Unit (PMU). The
assistance will finance the following:
i. A project administrator, who is well-versed in Bank procurement, disbursements,
and contracting procedures;
ii.  Three local specialists: one local procurement specialists, a disbursement
specialist, and an accountant; and
iii. Immediate operational expenses of the PMU, including the cost of advertising in
the international press for the recruitment of top-quality privatization specialists.
iv. Audit expenses and financing for a financial management system for the Agency,
including training for the staff.



-14 -
Component                     Sector         Indicative  % of  Bank-        % of Bank-
Costs      Total  Financing  Financing
(US$ mln)          (US$ mln)
Privatization of State and    Institutional
Socially Owned Enterprises    Development        4.28      61       3.56         59
Agency for Privatization      Institutional
Development        1.35      19       1.09         18
Agency for Foreign            Institutional
Investment/Agency for SME   Development
Support
0.87      12       0.85        14
Project Management and        Institutional
Implementation                Development        0.50       7       0.50         8
Total                                            7.00     100%      6.00       100%
2.    Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The proposed Technical Assistance Program would build on and complement the
structural reforms initiated by the new government to support the growth of the private
sector, which includes the privatization of the state and socially owned enterprises.
These reforms are inevitably linked to the dynamic entry of new firms and the growth of
the existing private sector. This technical assistance aims to stimulate reforms by: (i)
accelerated privatization of approximately 27 socially owned and state enterprise (SOEs)
across a wide spectrum of sectors; (ii) improving the capacity of the Agency for
Privatization to carry out further privatizations; and (iii) strengthening the country's
capacity to identify, monitor, and remove administrative barriers to businesses, and
increasing the visibility and marketability of Serbia to foreign investors. It is important
to note that the proposed grant emphasizes developing the local institutional capacity,
thus creating the foundation for the future broad-based structural reforms.
3.    Benefits and target population
Implementation of structural reforms in the enterprise sector supported under this
operation will enhance Serbia's prospects for growth and will reinforce the sustainability
of its macroeconomic stabilization. The transparent and professional method of sale
proposed under this project, combined with the strengthening of the proposed Agency for
Privatization will provide the country with the much needed credibility to proceed with
its long-term privatization program. The proceeds of the privatization will be a welcome
source of finance to the country's strained budget. The program will also lead to
increased FDI. The general population will ultimately benefit from the improved
management, competitiveness, and profitability of enterprises.  The program  will
facilitate the elimination of regulatory barriers to SME establishment and growth, which
will in turn ensure job creation and absorption of the labor force released by the large



- 15 -
SOEs. In addition, the program will promote competition and create constituency for
market and democratic reforms.
4.    Institutional and implementation arrangements
The project will be implemented over a 30-month period. The MOEP is the main
counterpart for the project, working in close coordination with the Ministry of Foreign
Economic Relations regarding the foreign investment promotion component. The overall
coordination of the project would rest with the PMU, which has been established in the
MOEP. The PMU will move to the Privatization Agency, once this Agency has been
established. This transition will be monitored and assisted by the Bank's Financial
Management System (FMS) specialist. The PMU will be headed by a Director (currently
the Deputy Minister at the MOEP), who will have overall responsibility for the project.
He will be assisted by a Project Administrator (the proposed head of the Privatization
Agency) who will oversee the day-to-day operations of the project. The PMU director
will ensure that all project objectives and targets that can be monitored, as specified in the
Project Implementation Plan (PIP), are on track and achieved. Technical expertise on a
short-term basis will be provided to the Project Administrator as and when required. The
PMU, apart from the Project Director, has a procurement and disbursement specialist and
an accountant. The PMU will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project,
procurement, and financial management, including reporting to the Government and to
the Bank.
Project Financial Management System and Audit
In order to maintain project accounts and produce reports in accordance with standards
acceptable to the Bank, an interim project-specific financial management system has been
developed at the PMU. Once the Privatization Agency is established, a financial
management system for the new Agency will be developed and the interim system will be
absorbed into this new system. Financing for the new system will be provided under the
Grant. The Terms of Reference (TOR) for this assignment have been agreed on with the
Bank. In order to ensure that the Special Account, project accounts, and institutional
accounts would be audited in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank, PMU has been
informed on the process for selection and engagement of auditors. Draft TOR for these
assignments were discussed and agreed on with PMU. The PMU would provide the
Bank, within four months of the end of each Government Fiscal Year, with an audit
report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate
opinion by the independent auditor on disbursement against certified SOEs (or SA in case
of LACI) and a full audit report on the project.



- 16 -
D:    PROJECT RATIONALE
1.    Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Two alternative methods for case-by-case privatization were considered and rejected:
a. Implementing privatization internally ("in-house") by government officials rather
than hiring investment banks or sales agents. This would be similar to the method
for privatization adopted, for example, by Romania in 1995 where a state property
fund undertook the management, sale, and workout of commercial state
enterprises, and using outside agents sparingly. This model was rejected because
of its lack of success in other countries and because the Agency for Privatization,
similar to other transition countries, has had very limited experience in doing
privatizations.
b. Using local sales agents and investment banks to undertake trade sales and IPOs
in local and foreign markets.  This would be similar to the method for
privatization adopted, for example, in Indonesia where privatization was
undertaken by a number of local financial intermediaries. This was not judged
viable given the lack of local investment banks, sales agents, and financial
markets.
In the current environment, engaging reputable investment banks and sales agents using
Bank procurement procedures is the most practical and effective proposal for a start-up to
the privatization process. This method will provide transparency, bring best practices to
bear, and provide rapid deployment of qualified professionals to advise the government
and undertake the privatization process.
Regarding assistance to FDI and SMEs, the alternative of adopting a "hands-off'
approach to foreign investment and SME development was considered, under the
assumption the deregulation alone will suffice. Experience in other transition economies
shows that the deregulation legislation alone is insufficient because the vested interest
opposed to foreign investors and private entrepreneurs is able to suppress entry; and thus
public support is required at the initial stages.
Monitoring the business environment is an important tool to provide the government with
feedback about the effects of the deregulation policies discussed above. A proposal to
finance such a monitoring exercise under this grant was considered in order to prepare the
ground for the SAC. However, the budget and approval schedule of the proposed grant
do not allow the time or funds to adequately prepare this component, and it will thus be
postponed until the preparation of the Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC), envisaged in
the TSS. Under the forthcoming PSD SAC, a set of periodical surveys of barriers to
entry and expansion of SMEs should be conducted to provide such feedback, and the
progress identified by the surveys should be part of the benchmarks of the SAC.



- 17 -
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
(completed, ongoing, and planned):
Sector Issue          Project                                                    Latest
supervision (PSR)
Ratings. (Bank
Projects Only)
FSD - Financial Sector   Financial Sector Development Technical Assistant Project (SF-    Under Preparation
TA                    P074127)                                                  I
Other development agencies
Privatization and     Initial advisory assistance, enterprise data base          DFID
Enterprise Restructuring
Legal advisors on privatization laws, regulations, etc.   EBRD
Requested - Support for auctions and restructuring        GTZ, USAID
Private Sector/ Micro,   Proposed - Assistance to small private banks for micro-finance,    EBRD, EAR, IFC,
Small and Medium      SME lending/ savings including re- capitalization of the banks,    KFW, USAID,
Business:             development of lending/ savings products (SMEs and /or micro-    Other
finance), other institutional capacity building measures such as MIS
and portfolio controls, branch expansion, training in commercial
loan appraisal etc.
Proposed - Advisory services for SMEs, fimding of the Regional   EAR, USAID, IFC
l_______________ SME Agencies                                                    (SEED), GTZ
Proposed - Legal, regulatory changes--collateral laws, concessions, US AID,
bankruptcy, de-regulation, improvements in the business   EBRD
.______________ _   =enviromn ent
3.     Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Bank's experience in other transition economies has demonstrated that adequate
institutional framework is an essential condition for the success of broad-based structural
reforms. Lessons learned in the transition process indicate that institutional refonn
should be a key component of an early assistance strategy. Accordingly, the proposed
grant emphasizes developing the local institutional capacity, thus creating the foundation
for future structural reforms.
The project design also reflects some useful lessons from Bank's experience in the area
of privatization assistance in the past decade, as discussed in numerous retrospective
policy studies and debates. Vouchers have been popular with governments seeking
equity in the public distribution of state assets in many transition economies. While
attractive in concept, vouchers have proven conceptually and administratively
cumbersome. Their use has led to abuses by enterprise and investment fund managers,
poor corporate governance, and little or no return for the average voucher holder. It is,
therefore, a positive feature of the proposed Privatization Law that it does not envisage
the use of vouchers. Instead, the draft Law provides that 15 percent of the shares in
enterprises sold through tenders will be transferred to a Privatization Register for
eventual distribution, free of charge, to citizens at large.



- 18 -
Case-by-case privatization techniques have been widely used throughout the world as the
preferred technique for privatization of large state firms.  Experience shows that
successful case-by-case privatizations are carried out using transparent procedures,
competitive tenders, and qualified outside advisors, particularly international advisors
where foreign strategic and other investors are sought. It is encouraging that the new
privatization law emphasizes tender privatizations as a method for privatization of the
more important state and socially owned firms, and it allows for clear, transparent
procedures, equitable treatment of foreign investors, and the sale of control blocks of
shares in companies to strategic owners. The supporting regulations emphasize the use of
best practices.  The proposed Bank privatization program will finance the use of
reputable investment banks and sales agents, and will impose the procurement
requirements of the Bank on the process to ensure transparency.
In the post-socialist countries, insider privatization has proven detrimental to good
corporate governance and thus to efficiency and growth. It is highly advisable that there
be no concessions for special groups, for example, existing management. Therefore, it is
noted as a very positive development that, in the draft Privatization Law, the Government
agrees not to allow Management Employee Buy Outs (MEBOs) as a separate method of
privatization because, as experience in the region shows, they favor insider privatization.
In terms of more specific lessons about project design, the Bank's previous experience
with TA projects indicates that projects with a sizable amount of technical assistance
should have:
a. The active support of ministry and government officials, to ensure properly
considered and timely decision making on crucial issues;
b. A Well-defined procurement plan, including terms of reference for consultants
and studies drafted and agreed on with the borrower prior to negotiations;
c. A PMU with well qualified and competent staff who are properly compensated
for their work; and
d. Donor co-ordination to avoid duplication of efforts and to leverage available
resources in the most efficient way.
4.    Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
Immediately upon its appointment in January 2001, the Government of Serbia has
requested Bank's support in designing the PSD agenda. In late January, the Bank, at the
Government of Serbia's request, organized a Privatization Seminar, with the participation
of senior-level practitioners from Poland, Hungary, Estonia, and Slovenia, to help in the
design of a new privatization strategy.
Since January 2001, the Bank has also been heavily involved in reviewing the existing
legal framework relating to PSD. The government has engaged international legal
advisers to assist in drafting a new privatization law and supporting regulations. The
governnent welcomed the Bank's recommendations on the new legislation and
regulations and has asked for the Bank's advice on the design and setting up of the new



- 19 -
Agency for Privatization, which will carry out the privatization and workout program for
the government. The government has targeted this component as a keystone to its
recovery strategy and has already started to gather and engage staff for the new Agency
for Privatization. The government has given the passage of the new law top priority, with
the Law's final approval by Parliament presently scheduled for mid-June, 2001. The
SME Department has been established in the structure of the MEOP and the work on the
Law on SME Agencies is underway. The Serbian Government is also in the process of
establishing an Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment, under the
MFER.
5.    Value added of Bank support in this project
Because of limited Bank resources for Serbia and the large financing role of other donors,
our strategy is based on two principles: (i) investing in areas where the Bank has a
comparative advantage; and (ii) investing in key reforn areas, including private sector
development. The Bank has extensive knowledge and experience in the privatization
process of fornerly communist countries. It is in a unique position to furnish best
practice advice on privatization, and to help in the design of privatization programs and
supervision of their execution. Recent Bank experience in designing and supervising
case-by-case privatization programs in Latvia and Lithuania, and designing, financing,
and supervising case-by-case programs in Uzbekistan and Romania have provided
invaluable experience. FIAS has extensive experience in helping the governments
identify the essential attributes of a sound investment environment. The Bank's SME
Department is well positioned to provide expertise and advice based on international best
practices in the four key areas of SME support: business environment for SMEs, access
to finance, capacity building, and information technology. Southeast Europe Enterprise
Development facility, established and managed with the IFC participation, will provide
continuity of the Bank's efforts for small business support. The Bank will also assist in
implementation of the project through hands-on supervision and imparting knowledge of
Bank procurement methods to FRY counterparts.
E:    SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1.    Economic
Not applicable.
2.    Financial
Not applicable.
3.    Technical
Successful privatization requires high-quality advice and expertise in a number of areas.
These technical skills are currently weak in Serbia. The project would ensure that the
Government of Serbia has access to the necessary expertise, through top-level advisors
and consultants, to facilitate the achievement of its reform objectives in a timely manner.



- 20 -
An important element of the project will be for the hired experts to train and transfer
these skills to their in-country counterparts.
Retroactive financing
Due to the essential requirements of the project to recruit qualified staff and provide
FMS/Procurement training and IT equipment for the PMU, as well as the immediate need
to start the search for top-quality privatization specialists by advertising these positions in
international media, the funding for these tasks will be made available using retroactive
financing method. Expenditures up to US$600,000 which have been paid between May
1, 2001 and the signing date for the purposes identified above, and minimal office
equipment, would be eligible to be financed retroactively from the grant funds.
Reimbursement will only be available after the project becomes effective.  The
procurement for these expenditures will be according to relevant World Bank Guidelines.
4.    Institutional
4.1 Executing agencies: Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MEOP)
A project management unit has been established under the MEOP. This unit will move to
the Privatization Agency, once the Agency has been established.
4.2. Project management:
The overall coordination of the project would rest with the PMU, which has been
established in the MEOP. This unit will move to the Privatization Agency, once the
Agency has been established. The PMU will be headed by a Director (currently the
Deputy Minister at the MEOP), who will have overall responsibility for the project. He
will be assisted by a Project Administrator (the proposed head of the Privatization
Agency), who will oversee the day-to-day operations of the project. The PMU Director
will ensure that all project objectives and targets that can be monitored, as specified in the
PIP, are on track and achieved. Both the PMU director and the project administrator will
work closely with the representatives of the MFER on issues related to the foreign
investment promotion component. Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be
provided to the Project Administrator as and when required. The PMU, apart from the
Project Director, has a procurement specialist, a disbursement specialist, and an
accountant. The PMNJ will be responsible for the day-to-day operations of the project,
procurement, and financial management, including reporting to the Government and to
the Bank.
4.3. Procurement issues:
The procurement officer does not have prior experience in Bank procurement procedures.
To mitigate this problem, training will be provided to the officer, which will be financed
from the grant. In addition, funds under the grant have been allocated to hire a
procurement consultant to provide hands-on training, and to help the PMU during the
initial phase of project implementation.



- 21 -
4.4. Financial management issues:
Although no country financial assessment has been carried out, from a financial
management perspective, the risks associated with the Private Sector Technical
Assistance Project are limited. The grant amount is relatively small, with a limited
number of large contracts paid directly from the Bank's headquarters in Washington.
Financial flows for smaller contracts would be from the Special Account directly to the
consultants or suppliers. To mitigate any unforeseen problems, an Operational Manual
has been prepared, which clearly specifies all the fiduciary responsibilities of the PMU,
including the responsibilities of the individual staff, and the procedures and guidelines for
approving and authorization of payments. The project's financial management system
will have the relevant safeguards to protect data entry and data integrity. Procurement
procedures will be closely monitored by the Bank. Qualified staff have been selected for
the PMU. However, training will be provided for both financial management and
procurement staff to enhance their understanding of Bank procedures. The project will
be audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank.
5.    Social
The companies to be privatized under the proposed project were chosen so that they will
produce the minimum number of lay-offs. Special attention will be given so that timely
measures are taken to mitigate the negative effects of the potential lay-offs. The current
labor law stipulates very generous benefits to laid-off employees and is unsustainable.
The Government is now in the process of re-drafting regulations with the assistance of
the Bank in an attempt to make the system more sustainable by reducing the size of
benefits. The Government has demonstrated a high degree of sensitivity to this issue
because the success in achieving the privatization goals will largely depend on the social
acceptability of relevant policies. Therefore, special attention will be given to the
sequencing between the proposed grant, on the one hand, and the forthcoming Bank
operations including the social assistance adjustment grant and structural adjustment
credit, on the other hand. In addition timely support will be provided to mitigate the
expected social effects of large-scale privatizations. Meanwhile, the SME component of
this project will support creation of new jobs, which could eventually absorb some of the
displaced labor.



- 22 -
6.    Environmental                  Environmental category: C
As the proposed grant is not expected to have direct impact on the environment, the
environmental category "C" was assigned to it. However, the project would set in motion
a privatization process that could ultimately have significant environmental effect. It was
agreed with the Government that both the policies and regulatory aspects of
environmental liability in privatization, and the environmental policies and procedures
for implementing these regulations would be reviewed and, if necessary, strengthened.
7.    Participatory Approach
7.1  Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The MEOP and the proposed Agency for Privatization as representing government
ownership in SOEs are the primary beneficiary. Representatives of the MEOP, including
its SME Department, the proposed management of the Agency for Privatization and the
SME Development Agency have all participated closely in the design of the proposed
project. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations has been consulted in
relation to foreign investment promotion components.
7.2  Other key stakeholders:
The MOF, National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY), and the business community are
beneficiaries and have also been involved in the design of the proposed project.
8.    Checklist of Bank Policies
9.    Safeguard Policies
9.1   (check applicable items):
Policy                             Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01)                       No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                         No
Forestry (OP 4.36)                                       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                            No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                             No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.30)                       No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37)                                 No
Projects on International Waterways (OP 7.50)            No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60)                     No



- 23 -
10.   Business Policies
10.1 (check applicable items):
Financing of recurrent costs (OMS 10.02)
Cost sharing above country 3-yr average (OP/BP/GP 6.30)
Retroactive financing above normal limit (OP/GP/BP 12.10)
Financial management (OP/13P 10.02)
Involvement of NGO's (GP 14.70)
Other (provide necessary details)
10.2. Describe issue(s) involved, not already discussed above:
Not applicable.
F:    SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1.     Sustainability
The grant will support PSD reform programs for privatization and in-business
development that will enhance both Serbia's short- and long-term prospects for economic
growth and development. The proposed project is envisaged as a first step, "early win"
operation with a limited goal of increasing institutional capacity and human capital, and
improving Serbia's international reputation, in preparation for the larger structural reform
effort. A much larger Structural Adjustment Credit planned for FY'02 will support PSD
reforms in the long run. The bulk of the country's economy is still in State hands or
socially held, and the initiatives put forward in this document will start the country on the
necessary path to industrial reform and progress. In addition to broad macroeconomic
benefits, all of these actions will promote development of a market-based economy with
stronger governance, management, transparency, and participation, which will all lead to
sustainable economic growth.
2.    Critical Risks: (see Annex 1)
Risk                         Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Continuing commitment of      S       Additional government revenue from privatization
government to privatize SOEs          sales; additional foreign exchange from
privatization sales; IMF Standby program
Continued government support to  S    IMF Standby program. The project team has also
develop and enact improved new        discussed this issue with the government, and it is
business enabling legislations        generally believed that the new government is
committed to major and sustainable reform in PSD,
Close supervision of the project will be maintained,
along with strong policy dialogue and a public
information campaign to support the reforms
Political uncertainty and regional  H
instability



-24 -
From Components to Outputs
Timely recruitment and contract   S   Structure of success fees and retainer fees
with investment banks and sales
agents
PMU's capability to perform  M        The Project will fund consultant fees for one project
Financial Management activities       director, one accountant, one procurement
required by the Project              specialist, and one disbursement specialist to assist
with the Financial Management and Procurement
requirements of the project
Overall Risk Rating          S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
G:   MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS
1     Effectiveness Conditions:
a. Subsidiary Agreement to the Legal Agreement is signed between the FRY
Government and the Government of Serbia.
2.    Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
a. The PMU is to maintain satisfactory FMSs, including records and accounts,
and to prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting standards
satisfactory to the Bank; the PMU is to provide annual project accounts and
institutional audits to the Bank within four months of each fiscal year (with
the audit to be carried out by independent auditors in accordance with
international auditing standards, and TORs satisfactory to the Bank).
b. The selection of auditors will be agreed upon during negotiations and
reflected as a dated covenant by October 15, 2001.
c. A mid-term  review to be conducted by November 30, 2002, based on
satisfactory TORs.
H:    READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
The PIP has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I:    COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
(signature)
Team Leader:        zh   Golr
(signature)
Sector Manager:      asW. Lieberman



- 25 -
(signature)             _     _       _     _
Country Director:  ChristiaanPoortman



- 26 -
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Hierarchy of Objectives               Key Performance Indicators                  Monitoring and Evaluation   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:              Sector Indicators:                          Sector/ country reports:    (fr. Goal to Bank
Mission)
Promote structural reform and private  * Increase in total private investment     * National statistics       An improved private
sector development                                                                                            sector environment
will successfully
induce greater
investment
Project Development Objective:        Outcome/Impact Indicators:                  Project reports:            (from Objective to
Goal)
Enhance the private sector's role in the  * Number of enterprises sold            * ESW on Private Sector     *  New laws for
economy through the transfer of state-  * Increase in Foreign Direct Investment.    Development               privatization and
owned assets and the creation of an   * Increase in the number of newly established    * Bank supervision reports   foreign investment are
enabling environment conducive to prtvate SMEs.                                   *  Agency records           enacted
sector growth and development                                                                                 *  Continued
implementation of
other economic
policies and reforms
* Availability of
domestic and
international capital
and entrepreneurial
skills
Output from components:               Output Indicators:                          Project reports:             (from Outputs to
Objective)
Case-by-case privatization of large SOEs   . Pool privatization of at least 27 medium and   *  Bank supervision reports   * Continuing
and pool privatization of medium and large   large SOEs                           *  Progress reports submitted  commitment of
SOEs                                                                              by the PMU                   Government to
Increase the capacity of the Agency fDr    . Agency for Privatization is fully staffed,  *  Consultants' reports  privatization of SOEs
Privatization                           trained, and operational                  *  Agency records            *. Continued
Supporting the development of framework  * Number of foreign-investor inquiries                                government support
to improve the business environment   processed by the Agency for Foreign Investment                          to develop and enact
steadily increases                                                     improved new
* Number of SMEs assisted by the Agency for                             business enabling
SME Development steadily increases                                     legislations
* Political stability
Project components:                   Inputs: (budget per comp.)                  Project reports:            (fr. Components to
Outputs)
Privatization of State and Socially Owned  * US$ 3.56 million                      * Bank supervision reports   *  Timely
Enterprises                                                                       *  Progress reports submitted  recruitment and
Agency for Privatization              * US$ 1.09 million.                         by the PMU                  contract with
Agency for Foreign Investment / Agency   * US$ 0.85 million                        * Consultants' reports     investment bank and
for SME Support                                                                                               sales agent
Project Management and Implementation   * US$ 0.5 million                                                     *  PMU's capability
to perform Financial
Management
activities required by
the Project



- 27 -
ANNEX 2: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
The proposed project will consist of four components:
By Component:
Project Component 1 - Privatization of Socially Owned and State Owned
Enterprises - US$3.56 million
The first Yugoslavian law was passed in 1989, allowing experimentation with private
ownership in formerly socially owned enterprises. Under this law, workers received the
right to purchase a substantial percentage of a firm's capital, using a generous installment
payment plan, at large discounts. The law allowed firms to be privatized (substantially to
insiders) if the employees wished, but it was not obligatory. Some privatization began,
but progress was slow due to the evolving crisis of the Yugoslav State.
In 1991, Serbia passed its own privatization law. Hyperinflation in the early 1990s
accelerated privatization, as it had the effect of easing the already attractive terms on
which workers could acquire equity.  However, in 1994, an amendment to the
privatization law revalued capital to take inflation into account. Because the law applied
new, higher values to past transactions, it had the effect of reversing much of the
privatization that had taken place.  The upshot was popular discontent, extensive
litigation, and a failed attempt at privatization.
In July 1997, the Serbian Government adopted the Act on Ownership Transformation (the
law in effect up to early 2001). Once again, the employees were to decide whether or not
to privatize and, again, the terms were generous. After obtaining the approval of the
Valuation Agency regarding the price at which the company would be sold, firms were
permitted to distribute, free of charge, 60 percent of their shares to employees, former
employees, and pensioners. Then, in a second round, a further 30 percent of shares
would be first made available for sale exclusively to employees, for cash, with a discount
related to years of employment. Ten percent of the shares in firms so privatized are
transferred to the Serbian pension fund.
The 1997 Law provided a "special privatization program" for some 75 companies of
supposedly strategic importance, but the definition of "strategic" was not decided on and
details of this last initiative were left vague.



- 28 -
No company has been restructured or sold under the 1997 Privatization Law. The Law
has numerous features that render it unsuitable for efficient private sector-led
restructuring and investment.
Given the major shortcomings of the existing Privatization Law to implement the
proposed privatization program, the Government of Serbia has suspended its operation.
However, approximately one thousand enterprises (out of more than 7,000 total) that had
begun their privatization transformnation will be allowed to complete the process. The
government is not willing to annul the Law and reverse the privatizations completed or
substantially under way; to do so would create major political problems. These high
potential firms will most likely remain controlled by insiders and suffer from diffused
ownership. Under the circumstances, it is unlikely many will attract external investment.
A new Privatization Law has been prepared. The most important provisions are
presented below:
a. Initiators. Management and workers will continue to have the authority to initiate
privatization for the majority of socially owned enterprises, but the law will
stipulate that the state also has the right to initiate privatization;
b. Timing.   Enterprises will not be allowed to "prepare" for privatization
indefinitely. Firms should be privatized within a maximum time frame, and
incentives given to employees who initiate an early process;
c. Sales method. The preferred privatization methods will be simple, speedy, and
transparent-- the ones most likely to result in a core investor taking over the firm.
Tenders, auctions, and workouts will be allowed;
d. Financial advisors. The law will encourage the use of reputable, professional
financial advisors and investment bankers to facilitate the transactions;
e. Limitations on percentage of equity set aside for social purposes. Mandated
distributions of shares to employees and others will be limited to 15 percent of an
enterprise in tenders, 30 percent (reducing to 10 percent in later years) in auctions,
and zero in workouts. The objective in this case is to maximize the marketability
and value of enterprises by reserving a legal controlling majority for a core
investor; and
f. Financial restructuring. The law should authorize the Ministry of Finance to
workout all or part of debts owned to the Budget by enterprises, but only when
they are actually privatized under the revised law.
The proposed project was designed in response to Serbia's urgent requests to the Bank
for support of the government's ambitious privatization program, involving the
privatization of over 4,000 enterprises. Bank assistance was also requested to support the
governnent in handling some important privatizations early in the program, which would
increase the governnent's credibility and show progress on reform.
The proposed project will support the rapid privatization of important firmns through case-
by-case privatization techniques using internationally reputed investment banks or sales



- 29 -
agents hired through international competitive tenders. This will be a starting point that
can produce valuable "early wins," which will signal to external investors that the
privatization program in Serbia will be conducted under commercial principles. Even the
sales of a small number of firms in this manner could have a powerful positive effect on
FRY's economy and image with foreign investors.
Under this component, the project will support payments to investment banks hired
according to Bank procurement procedures that will privatize pools of companies. There
will be seven or eight pools of an average of four to five companies. The grant will pay
the investment banks' retainer (up front) fees with the subsequent success fees paid from
the sales proceeds.
Project Component 2 - Agency for Privatization- US$1.09 million
To carry out the privatization program for some twenty-seven firms selected under the
previous component and to implement the country's ambitious privatization program, the
govermment asked the Bank to assist with the build-up of institutional competence in the
Agency for Privatization and to improve its capacity to run a successful privatization
program. The Agency for Privatization is a nongovernmental body authorized to channel
trust funds and grants from donors and loan funds from the IFIs. It would also be the
vehicle for identifying a future policy-based operation, and to help continue the
restructuring of the industrial and related service sectors through privatization.
A strong level of cooperation has already been established with the government, mainly
with the Ministry of Economy and Privatization and the staff that have been assigned to
manage the new Agency for Privatization. With the support of EBRD and DFID,
international lawyers have already been hired and are working with the Bank and the
government to prepare the new Privatization Law and supporting regulations. The Bank
also provided foreign privatization experts, using DIFD funds, to support the setting up of
the new Agency for Privatization and establishing its procedures.
Training the Agency staff is also an urgent priority. The staff will require training with
respect to, inter alia, privatization methods and techniques, enterprise valuation and
alternative approaches to valuation, privatization processes and procedures, and how to
hire and work with financial advisors. Estimated training requirements are $250,000,
front-loaded at the beginning of the program.
The component will provide technical assistance to build up institutional competence to
undertake the complex government challenge of running a successful privatization
program by the Agency for Privatization:
a. Advisory services for the Agency for Privatization to assist it in choosing
privatization candidates, organizing the Agency effectively, managing the
privatization process, and working with investment banks and sales agents;
b. Intensive and comprehensive training for the staff of the Agency for Privatization
with respect to, inter alia, understanding enterprise privatization methods and



- 30 -
techniques, principles of enterprise valuation and alternative approaches to
valuation, privatization processes and procedures, and how to work with financial
advisors;
c. Funding assistance in funding the retainers (fixed fees) of investment banks;
d. Drafting new privatization regulations;
e. Advisory services for conducting a public relations campaign to educate the
general public on the benefits of privatization; and
f. Procurement of hardware and software for the operation of the Agency for
Privatization.
Project Component 3 - Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME Support -
US$0.85 million
Assisting the Agency for Foreign Investment
In the near term, the return to growth of the Yugoslavian economy requires a business
environment conducive to the development of the private sector. Attracting new foreign
investment into the country is key; Fl brings with it not only the much needed new
investment, jobs, and income but also export opportunities, new technologies, and new
skills. It creates supply opportunities for domestic companies and, in the longer term,
contributes to the diversification and development of the overall economy.
A strong and effective promotion effort will lie at the heart of Serbia's attempts to attract
such investment. Essential to this will be the establishment of a good and improving
environment conducive to competitive business, and the creation of a strong agency
capable of promoting Serbia's strengths and providing services to prospective investors.
FIAS and MIGA have made proposals to work with the MFER to assist in establishment
of this base. FIAS/MIGA propose to work with the MFER on four broad areas:
a. The establishment of the Agency, involving the creation of an appropriate legal
and regulatory environment, the draft of a new law for the formal establishment of
the agency, a mandate, and the appropriate governance framework for its
operation;
b. Assessment of the FDI environment, which involves undertaking a
comprehensive assessment and survey of business views and experiences
(separately funded by FIAS), making recommendations for improvements in the
business environment, and undertaking regular monitoring of improvements in the
environment;
c. The development of a strategy and a one-year and three-year business plan for the
agency, including the development of sector targets and sector marketing plans,
the development of promotion materials, and outreach activities; and



- 31 -
d. The development of the Agency's promotion capacity, involving the development
and production of promotion materials, the development and implementation of
investor facilitation systems and transport, and the design of an internet strategy
In the Agency's first year of activity it will require additional technical assistance to
develop its internet presence, and to introduce, as business referrals grow, an investor
tracking system. In light of this, MIGA has agreed to review, with the new agency, the
possibilities of making complementary proposals for additional donor funding to cover
the development of its IT promotion capability.
Assisting the Agency for SME Support
In the near term, the return to growth of the Yugoslavian economy requires a business
environment conducive to the development of the private sector. SMEs are at present
burdened by excessive taxation and social charges, inflexible labor legislation, and a
myriad of regulations governing their operations that are inappropriate to the
development of a market economy. Also, financial police seeking rents regularly harass
them. The principal tactic should be support by the Government for the dynamic entry
and growth of de novo firms free of burdensome regulations. De-regulation could
provide the Government some early success in stimulating economic growth, and it could
earn great support from the private sector.
Positive first steps would be the removal of restrictions on private sector entry and
expansion, and the legitimization of the informal sector. Government could rapidly
bundle a number of policy measures and other actions to improve the business
environment in order to build business confidence. This can be done without external
resources and would constitute an "early win" for the governnent with respect to pro-
market reforms. Concrete efforts would include:
a. reform  and liberalization of labor legislation and regulations, substantially
lowering the rate of taxation and contributions on employees wages to encourage
SMEs to pay their workers officially and not in the gray economy; flexible hiring
for part-time, seasonal, and casual labor; and relaxation of the current rigid
benefits and severance packages that hinder job creation;
b. simplification and lowering of taxation of SMEs by developing a standard method
for calculating lump sum tax payments for sole proprietorships and limiting tax
inspections of private businesses;
c. simplification of all other areas of regulations and required reporting by SMEs to
the streamlining and simplification of registration procedure, possibly in
cooperation with USAID;
d. simplification of all other areas of regulations and elimination of administrative
barriers and cumbersome procedures  of all kinds (decrease in reporting
requirements, simplification of accounting    for SMEs, simplification   of



- 32 -
procedures for obtaining of building permits, introduction of framework for
controlling activity of inspections and other supervisory bodies, etc.); and
e. elimination of maximum limits of withdrawal on SME bank accounts, presently
set at 500 dinar per withdrawal.
To support the govermment to improve the legislative and regulatory framework,
promote SME development, and facilitate business-government dialogue, the
proposed project will finance:
a. Advisory services to the SME Department of MOEP on deregulation and SME
support policy = 1 foreign consultant for a period of 10-12 months. The scope of
work will include inter alia:
i.  technical assistance to review existing commercial regulations and assist
with the formulation of recommendations on deregulation, particularly in
the above mentioned areas;
ii.  facilitation of activity of the inter-ministerial working   group on
deregulation that would include representatives of different ministries
involved in regulation of business activities and would consider and
endorse recommendations for deregulation of business activity and
promote their implementation; the establishment of the working group is
to be initiated by the MOEP before the end of May, 2001.
iii. Advice on the development of a state strategy for SME support in close
coordination with EAR, GTZ, and other donors interested in supporting
SME development;
iv.  Support for SME forum/conference planned for February-March, 2002
b.    Local consultant support for the SME policy design and  implementation, with a
major focus on the improvement of the regulatory environment for new business
establishment and growth, facilitation of business-government consultative mechanism,
and establishment of the SME Agency. TOR for the first four local consultants will
cover: a legal expert who will support de-regulation activities; an expert in SME policy
and business-government dialogue; a local consultant who will be supporting, in the next
few months, the establishment of the SME Agency (development of statute, registration,
interaction with local authorities, and other key local stakeholders, etc.); and an expert in
data processing and statistical analyses;
c.    Capacity building for monitoring SME "health," administrative barriers removal,
and changes in the regulatory costs over a period  of time to assess the impact of the
government de-regulation policy: the monitoring function/unit will be allocated with the
SME Department for the time being, it might be moved to the SME Agency once it is
established. In addition to the above-mentioned local consultant, the support measures



- 33 -
will include: purchase of necessary equipment and a local contract for IT/information
services, which might include purchase and tailoring of required software.
d.    Training program in local economic development (LED) with the focus on SME
promotion will be delivered in 4-5 pilot regions. The target audience - core economic
development teams from several regions - will include representatives of local
authorities, the local business community, and business services providers (possibly, a
regional agency). The program will comprise three components: (i) in-country training to
introduce the local economic development concept, LED best practice, current LED
initiatives and lessons learned, local authorities' role in supporting SME development,
methods and techniques they could use to support private sector growth; (ii) study visit to
one Central European country where the LED programs were successfully implemented;
(iii) follow-up consultancy support for local project development.
Project Component 4 - Project Management and Implementation - US$0.50 million
The project will finance consultants and the immediate operational expenses of the PMU,
including the cost of advertising in the international press for recruitment of top-quality
privatization specialists. The Grant will also cover a financial management system for the
Agency, the audit of the project account, and training for the PMU staff. The consultants
financed under this component will include a Project Director and three local specialists -
- a local procurement specialist, a disbursement specialist, and an accountant. They will
carry out the following tasks:
a. Monitor project expenditures and costs (local and foreign), process loan
disbursement applications, and track disbursements of the loan and government
funds; maintain project records and accounts; prepare physical and financial
forecasts of future activities required to implement the components and for
inclusion in budgetary proposals for the succeeding implementation year;
b. Ensure compliance with the procurement procedures agreed on with the World
Bank in the acquisition of equipment, the administration of suppliers' and
technical assistance contracts, and the consolidation of requests and procurement
of goods and services in accordance with World Bank guidelines;
c. Finalize TORs for the specialist services, feasibility studies, and training required
in their respective areas of the project, prepare advertisements in international
media for recruitment of privatization specialists, assign bid evaluation
committees, evaluate proposals received for consulting services, and process the
award of contracts;
d. Monitor the implementation of training and seminars, identify and tap local
expertise to assist in activities such as preparation of detailed procedures, and
update implementation schedules;
e. Ensure preparation and distribution of consolidated periodic reports (Progress
Report) to the relevant government and other participating institutions, including
the World Bank, reflecting: (a) the status of implementation progress, problems



- 34 -
encountered and corrective actions needed; and (b) current costs of each project
component and estimated costs of completion; quarterly Financial Management
System (FMS) reports, including annual audit reports of project expenditure and
Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) and institutional accounts;. and
f. Formulate a development strategy for the Borrower with the assistance of external
consultants.



- 35 -
ANNEX 3: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
_______________________   LOCAL    FOREIGN   TOTAL
Project Cost By Component                              -- US $ million ----------
Privatization of Socially Owned Enterprises               0.75          3.50          4.25
Agency for Privatization                                  1.02          0.30          1.32
Agency for Foreign Investment /Agency for SME             0.20          0.64          0.84
Support
Project Management and Implementation                     0.30          0.23          0.53
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.27          4.67          6.94
Unallocated                                               0.03          0.03          0.06
Total Baseline Cost                                       2.30          4.70          7.00
Interest during construction
Front-end fee                                    _____        _ _  _
Total Financing Required                                  2.30          4.70          7.00
Local         Foreign      Total
Project Cost by Category                         ---------- US $ million ----------
Goods                                                    0.00          0.21          0.21
Works                                                     0.00          0.00
Services                                                  0.50         4.23          4.73
Training/Study tours                                      0.00         0.23          0.23
Incremental Operating Cost                                1.77         0.00          1.70
Unallocated                                              0.03          0.03          0.06
Total Project Costs                                      2.30          4.70          7.00
Interest during construction
Front-end fee
Total Financing Required                                 2.30          4.70          7.00



- 36 -
ANNEX 4: COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



- 37 -
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



- 38 -
ANNEX 6: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Procurement
Procurement of goods financed by the Bank under the project would be carried out in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published in
January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999). Consultant
services would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers published in January 1997 (revised in September 1997
and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the Grant Agreement.
Assessment of agency's capacity to implement procurement
An assessment of the capacity of the Privatization Project Management Unit (the PMU) to
conduct procurements indicated in the project design has been undertaken. While the PMU
leadership has identified staff to perform the needed functions of, e.g., program planning and
direction, procurement administration, disbursement, accounting, etc., the PMU, as an entity
without recent Bank-funded project administration experience, does not currently possess the
capacity to perform the indicated procurement administration functions. PMU management has
identified prospective employees who possess relevant backgrounds (for example, the
Procurement Director Designate has a legal background) and the potential to acquire skills and
abilities that will be needed to administer project activities; such staff will need inputs and
training from external sources to begin and later independently execute their projected
responsibilities. Funding has been included in the PSD project budget to engage procurement
training and external specialist advice needed to begin procurement administration and, over the
initial months of project implementation, to expand the PMU's capacity to responsibly execute
Bank procurement administration requirements.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Procurement methods described below and their estimated amounts are summarized in Table A.
Threshold estimated contract values defining applicable procurement methods are indicated in
Table B.
Procurement of Goods
Goods to be procured under the project include computers, printers, communications and office
equipment, and publications (about US$180,000) and office incremental operating services,
materials and supplies (budgeted, except for salaries, at about US$40,000 per year). If the need
arises, goods will be grouped in packages of that would be procured though ICB procedures.
Otherwise, goods which must be imported that are below US$100,000 per package, such as
computers, office and communications equipment and supplies, etc., would be procured using IS
procedures, up to an aggregate limit of US$140,000. Periodic purchases of office supplies,
utilities, equipment, and publications and communications support services, etc. under Operating
Expenses financing (up to US$100,000) would be purchased using competitive, e.g., commercial
practices, procedures. This procurement method would also be employed for publications



- 39-
technical services via designated professional journals. National shopping may be used for e.g.,
travel/study tours and related local expenses.
Selection of Consultant Services and Training
Consulting services include technical assistance for privatization, restructuring and liquidation
activities, public relations services, diagnostic assessments, business advisory work, the provision
of services for bankruptcy proceedings, audits, and for program and staff training. QCBS would
be used to obtain public relations services (US$300,000). The bulk of consultant services (about
US$3.54 million) would be procured for Case-by-Case Privatizations, using the Least Cost
procurement method as successfully implemented elsewhere in the Region. Individuals will be
engaged to advise on privatization assessments and provide assistance with foreign investment
and small and medium enterprise development activities. Privatization agency staff and PMU
administration functions and, e.g., legal diagnostic and advisory services, totaling about $670,000
will be procured using a competitive selection method acceptable to the Bank. IC procurements
are expected to total about US$0.89 million in the aggregate. Several training support activities
are expected to total about US$230,000, and be procured using the Consultants Qualifications
method. Annual audit services (US$40,000) would also be procured using the Least Cost
method.
Prior review thresholds
The prior review thresholds are summarized in Table B.
Bank's prior review would be required for a) any ICB; b) the first package of a goods or
consultant services method being used for the first time, and any IS or NS package which is
expected to exceed US$50,000 in value. Consultant services contracts with individuals above
$50,000, and for consultant firms above $100,000, and amendments which would cause a
contract to eclipse these levels, would likewise be subject to prior review. PMU operating plans
and budgets, which would outline expected operations expenses procurements for a fiscal year,
would be reviewed and approved by the Bank on an annual or semi-annual basis.
Procurement Plan
A detailed project Procurement Plan will be prepared by PMU staff as part of their initial
Operations Plan and Manual development exercise. The Operations Manual and Plan will be
approved by the Bank, as will Manual changes and additions and annual Procurement Plan
updates.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to indicated prior reviews, it is recommended that a full project launch mission be
implemented and an extended procurement supervision mission be effected within the first two
months of Grant Effectiveness to ensure administration preparedness and functioning. Full
procurement missions should be conducted thereafter at midyear on an annual basis to monitor
progress and carry out post reviews of procurement actions. Such post-review field analyses
should cover a random sample of not less than 10 percent of contracts signed during the prior
year.



- 40 -
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement Method
ICB           Othera    N.B.F    Total Cost
(including
Contingencies)
1. Goods                                   0.0            0.21b                           0.21
(0.0)          (0.21)           0             (0.21)
2. Services                                                4.73                           4.73
(4.73)           0             (4.73)
3. Study tours and trainingc                               0.23                           0.23
(0.23)           0             (0.23)
4. Incremental Operating                                   0.77           1.0             1.77
cost'
(0.77)           0             (0.77)
5. Unallocated                                             0.06                           0.06
(0.06)           0             (0.06)
Total                                      0.0             6.0            1.0              7.0
_________________________                 (0.0)           (6.0)            --            (6.0)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
a/ Includes goods to be procured through international and national shopping, consulting services, training, subprojects,
and operating costs.
b/ Includes training support expenses (US$30,000).
c/ Includes workshops, meetings, and study tours and all training related expenses, such as rent of training facilities, per
diem and transportation of trainees, except instructors' fees that will be hired as consultants.
d/ Includes incremental expenditures for administrative staff, publications and promotional materials, maintenance of
equipment and vehicles, utilities, communications expenses, rent, and office supplies.



- 41 -
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(in US$ million equivalent)
Consultant Services   Selection Method                                           Total Cost
Expenditure                                                                      (including
Category                                                                         contingencies)
QCBS    QBS    SFB        LCS       CQ    Other  N.B.F.
A. Firms               0.30              _       3.54      .23                       4.07
(.30)                   (354)   (.23)                       (4.07)
B. Individuals                                                    0.89               0.89
1  ___ _     _ _     _ _   (0.89)    (0.89)
Total                  .30                       3.54      .23    0.89     1.0       4.96
_______                (.30)     -              (3.54)   (.23)   (0.89)    --       (5.96)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS   Least-Cost Selection
CQ =Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



- 42 -
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
US $ thousands                           US $ millions
1. Goods
>100,000             ICB                   All
up to 100,000           IS             First one + over
$50K
50,000-100,000          NCB               All, if any
<50,000              NS              First one + over
$50K
2. Consultant
Services
(a) Individual        >50,000              Indiv.               All
<50,000             Indiv.         TORs-budget-CV +
first
(b) Firms           >100,000             QCBS                  All
>100,000              CQ                   All
<100,000              CQ            TOR/budget/short
list + first
>100,000              LC                   All
<100,000                            TOR/budget/short
list + first
Estimated Prior Review Proportions:
Goods:            58%
Consultant Services: 70%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:
High     [
Average
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 month(s)
includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



- 43 -
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The proposed Grant would be disbursed against the project components as shown in
Table C. It is expected that the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed over a period of
thirty months. The project Completion Date is December 31, 2003 and the closing date is
June 30, 2004.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category      Amount in US$ million      Financing Percentage
Consultants' services                                   _       _
Services by individuals                     0.89                       84%
Services by firms, including                3.84                       97%
auditing services
Goods                                          0.21                     100%
Training/Study tours                           0.23                     100%
Incremental Operating
Cost
Cost of incremental PMU                     0.10                       86%
Staff
All other incremental                       0.67                      100%
Operating costs
Unallocated                                    0.06                     100%
Total                                          6.00
Total Project Cost                             7.00
Retroactive financing
Due to the essential requirements of the project to recruit qualified staff and provide
FMS/Procurement training and IT equipment for the PMU, as well as the immediate need
to start the search for top-quality privatization specialists by advertising these positions in
international media, the funding for these tasks will be made available using retroactive
financing method. Expenditures up to US$ 600,000 which have been paid between May
1, 2001 and the signing date for the purposes identified above, and minimal office
equipment, would be eligible to be financed retroactively from the grant funds.
Reimbursement will only be available after the project becomes effective.  The
procurement for these expenditures will be according to relevant World Bank Guidelines.
Use of statements of expenses:
Some of the proceeds of the grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement
of Expenditures as follows: (a) goods costing less than US$50,000 equivalent for each
contract with the exception of the first contract; (b) service contracts for individuals
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first contract; (c)



- 44 -
service contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each with
the exception of the first contract; (d) training under contracts costing less than $50,000;
and (e) all incremental operating costs, all under such terrns and conditions as the
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Disbursements against goods and
services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and
respective procurement guidelines. Statements of expense will be certified locally by the
Ministry of Economy and Privatization. Related documentation in support of statement
of expenses will not be submitted to the Bank, but will be retained by the PMU for at
least one year, after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement is made. The PMU will make these documents available to the auditors
and supervision missions for review. If ineligible expenditures, including those not
justified by evidence furnished, are financed from the Special Account (SA), the Bank
will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Bank may exercise this
right until the Recipient has refunded the amount involved; or (if the Bank agrees)
submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible
amounts.
Special account:
To facilitate timely Project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account (SA) in US dollars in
a commercial bank. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
US$500,000, representing approximately four months of eligible expenditures. Upon
effectiveness of the Grant Agreement, the Borrower may withdraw US$300,000. When
the funds withdrawn from the Grant Account and any outstanding Special Commitments
amount to $900,000 , the Borrower may withdraw the remaining amount of US$200,000-
-by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications are
to be submitted at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements
as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
Project Financial Management:
An interim project specific financial management system has been established at the
PMU. The accounting system will be maintained in accordance with international
standards, based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping. The Bank has informed the
PMU of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and records in accordance with
International Accounting Standards (IAS). This system is capable of providing accurate
and timely information regarding project resources and expenditures, including planning,
accounting and financial reporting relating to the project. The project accounts will be
based on a Chart of Accounts drawn-up by the appraisal mission with the assistance of
the PMU. The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture
sources and uses of funds, assets and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based
reporting requirements. The proposed system will, in addition to producing periodic and
cumulative budgeted and actual expenditures, link the financial data to measures of
output and procurement activities of the project. The Project Management Reporting
(PMRs) formats were discussed and agreed to with the PMU during project preparation.



- 45 -
Once the Agency has been established, a new financial management system for the
operation of the agency will be established, to be financed from the Grant. The interim
system will be incorporated into the new system. TOR for this assignment has been
agreed with the bank and can be found in the PIP.
Disbursement arrangements under the project will commence on the basis of traditional
disbursement methods (e.g., direct payments, replenishments of the Special Account on
the basis of SOEs and full documentation). Once the PMU's capacity and experience has
improved with regard to internal controls, implementation, budgeting and forecasting, the
PMU, in consultation with the Bank, will decide on the timing and transition to the use of
the quarterly PMRs for disbursement purposes. It is expected that PMU will have the
capacity to prepare the first full set of PMRs by December 31, 2001.
Internal Controls
Operational procedures and guidelines for overall project management, including
financial management will be documented in an Operational Manual, encompassing all
levels of project management and administration. A draft of this Manual is being
prepared by the PMU. The Manual will include, apart from other administrative
procedures, financial management procedures and staffing, identification of accounting
and auditing standards and procedures used for the project, project reporting and
monitoring, procurement procedures, procedures for cash management and formats of
project management reports. Further actions to strengthen project financial management
is listed below. The PMU will prepare project information for all components and
prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) including a financial report,
project progress report and procurement management report, for project monitoring and
reporting for submission to the Bank. An outline of reports contained in the system and
the format for the PMRs were discussed with and provided to the PMU during
preparation.
Auditing Arrangements
The PMU will appoint independent auditors under tenns of reference acceptable to the
Bank.  The auditors selected for the Project are required to be members of the
International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). Audited Project Financial Statements
will be submitted to the Bank with the audit report four months after end of each year
audited. Cost of the audit will be financed through the Bank Loan.
Financial Management Action Plan
1. The PMU will send to the Bank for approval the operational manual by June 1,
2001.
2. The PMU will produce Report IA (Sources and Used of Funds), IB (Uses of
Funds by Detail) and IE (Special Account) by September 30, 2001.
3. The PMU will prepare full PMRs by December 31, 2001.



- 46 -
4. The financial management system for the Agency will be established by
December 31, 2001
5. The PMU staff will attend training courses before the end of the year.



- 47 -
ANNEX 7: PROJECT PROCESSING BUDGET AND SCHEDULE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Project Schedule                     (b) Planned (at final  (c) Actual
PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project    4
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)  3/19/2001
Appraisal mission departure          05/02/2001
Negotiations                         06/04/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness        07/01/2001
Prepared by: Ministry of Economy and Privatization, and the World Bank
Preparation assistance: None
Bank staff that worked on the project included:
A. Project Preparation Team
|      _Name _Bank Unit                  Role/Responsibility
|Core Team n 
| Itzhak Goldberg   | ECSPF            | Team Leader, Lead PSD Specialist
James R. Dick Welch   ECSPF             Senior Privatization Specialist
Irina Astrakhan    |      C              SME Development Specialist
Ramin Shojai         ECSPF              Private Sector Specialist
Alexander Pankov     ECSPF              Private Sector Analyst
Hiran Heart          ECSPF              FMS, Sr. Financial Analyst
Frank Kenefick       ECSPF              PAS
Gennady Pilch        LEGEC              Sr. Counsel
Joseph Formoso       LOAGI              Sr. Disbursement Officer
Quality Assurance
Paul Siegelbaum      ECSPF              Sector Director
Ira Lieberman        ECSPF              Sector Manager
Peer Reviewers
Charles E. Woodruff   PSASP             Lead FSD Specialist
John Nellis          Consultant         Privatization Consultant



- 48 -
ANNEX 8: DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The Project Inplementation Plan consists of Terms of References for the implementation
of technical assistance.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
PSD Review in      Itzhak          The World Bank  $100,000                  March
FRY ERTP           Goldberg                                                  2001
SME Country        Irina Astrakhan  WBG SME                                  April
Mapping                            Department                                2001
C.       Other
*Including electronic files.



- 49 -
ANNEX 9: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
NOT APPLICABLE



- 50 -
ANNEX 10: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Yugoslavia,   Central   middle-
Fed. Rep.      Asia  income        Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                        10.6       475      2,094                       h
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$) 1/                   990      2,150     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       10.5      1,022     2,513
Average annual growth, 1993-99                                                                           T
Population (%)                                          0.2        0.1       1.1
Labor force (I%)                                        0.6        0.6       1.2     GNP              /     \           Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                per                           --i prmary
Poverty (% of population below nabional poverty line)    ..          .    .          capit                          enrolment
Urban population (% of totalpopulafion)                  52        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         72        69         69
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 live births)                13        22         33
Child malnutrition (% of childmen under 5)                2         8         15
Access to improved water source (% of population)        8.          .         6               A - tr. .ufe.
ldlieracy (% ofpopulatbon age 15.)                        -         3         16
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)    69       100        114               -Yugoslavia, FR (Senrb.ltont)
Male                                                  69        101       114                --Lower-middle-income grup
Female                                                70         99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1999      2000               ____                 __
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              -.        .       10.3       9.0
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                     ..      ..       111       14.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                ..      ..       20.8      28.3                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                                        -2.4      -2.5
Gross nabonal savings/GDP                                          6.1       9.9
Current account balance/GDP                                       -7.4      -4.4
Interest payments/GDP                                              0.8       0.5      Domestic         z              Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                       ..    136.1      Savings
Total debt service/exports                                         4.7       2.2     1
Present value of debtVGDP                        ..
Present value of debt/exports                   ..       ..
1979-89  1989-99     1999       2000   2000-03     1n Iht-i-nu
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    ..       ..   -15.7         6.0       4.8                 -   Yugoslavia, FR (Sefb.lhfont.)
GNP per capita                         .o.                                           L          --Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and serVices          .         .    -45.6       18.6      14.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1999      2000     1Ir     nlm nt.n              1
(% of GOP)                                                                            20
Agriculture                                     ..    18.2        26.5        ..    l0a
Industry                                               42.5       35.8         .         o                   _______
Manufacturing                                                                      -9                   9t -20
Services                                         .     39.3       37.7               ,30
Private consumption                                       ..      75.3      77.2      0
General govemment consumption                    .        .       27.1      25.3    -so
Imports of goods and servces                    .         ..      34.2      45.1                    -GDJ    ---GDP
1979-89  1990-99     1999      2000    -           -     ---
(a979-89  1990-99     1999th)    2        Growth of exports and imports (561
(average annual growth)                                                              3n
Agriculture                                      .      -4.1       1.2         .     20
Industry                                        ..    -7.1       -25.6               10
Manufacturing                                  .              ..        .    .
Services                                        ..    -6.5       -32.5        ..             94 t         i     t
Private consumption                              ..       .      -12.9       9.5   -2o
General govemment consumption                    ..       .       -7.1      -3.0     3 o
Gross domestic investment                       ..       ..    -38.1        17.1
Imports of goods and services                    .        ..    -32.8       14.9                     ".E,purn t5    Imeports
Gross national product                          ..        .      -15.6       6.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
1/ Excludes Kosovo and is calculated using the market exchange rate.



- 51 -
Yugoslavia, FR (Serb./Mont.)
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       199g    2000       Inflation (%)
Domestic prnceS12T
(% change)                                                                           10T T 
Consumer prices (e.o.p)                               .           49.9    113.5       80
Implicit GDP deflator                            .        ..      55.6      77.8      ev \f
40
Government frnance 21                                                                 20
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                    o      t
Current revenue                                  . .                  .     38.8              94   95   93   97   9a
Current budget balance                           . .                 .       2.5             -GDP deflator    0  CPI
Overall surplusideficit                          ..                  .       -0.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1999      2000      Export and import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                        ..     1,677    1.923      5,000 o
Food                                                    ..       352
Fuel and energy                                                  35                 4,000
Manufactures                                                     453          .    3,000
Total imports (fob)                              .               3,296     3,772     2ooo                 J     i a        i
Food                                                                                                           _ 330
Fuel and energy                                         ..       396                1.000 -
Capital goods                                   .                725                   o_
Export price index (1995=100)                                                               93   94           95 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                    ..    |                                           Exports      * Imports
Terms oftrade (1995=100)
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979     1989       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                        Cunrent account balance to GDP j%)
Exports of goods and services                             ..    2,148      2,547      
Imports of goods and services                             ..     3,539     4,004     -'- 93   94   93   9    97
Resource balance                                          ..     -1,391    -1,457    -
Net income                                                ..       -41       -62    -3
Netcurrenttransfers                                       ..       668      1119      4                              l   I
Current account balance                                   ..      -764      -400
Financing items (net)                                     ..       653       607     -7
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..       111      -207     4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)           ..       ..         ..      505
Conversion rate (DEC, localWUS$)                ..       2.9       19.6     42.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1999     2000      -             - 
(USS millions)                                                                        Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             ..                       12,267
IBRD                                                                     1,812                     G 572    A 1,812
IDA                                            ..0
Total debt service                                                            56                                    C 151
IBRD                                          ..                             0
IDA                                            ..                            0                                      0: 611
F: 4.118
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..                           271
Official creditors                            ..                           213
Private creditors                             ..                            16
Foreign direct investment                     ..                            25
Portfolio equity                                                             0 .: 5,003
World Bank program
Commitments                                                                  0      A-IBRO                       E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                                                0      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                                         0      C-IMF                       G -Short-term
Net flows                                                                    0
Interest payments                             ..                             0
Net transfers                                                                0
Development Economics                                                                                                  5/29/01
2/ Excludes Kosovo.



