                                         Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                                             Report No: 32662

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (TF-29800 TF-50259 TF-50296 TF-52718)

                                            ON A

                                           GRANT

                             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 6 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                 SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO

                                           FOR A

          PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                 (co-financed by Dutch PSD TA Grant and Swedish PSD TA Grant)




                                         May 25, 2005




Finance & Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe & Central Asia Region (ECA)

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective April 15, 2005)

                           Currency Unit = Serbian Dinar (CSD)
                                  CSD 1 = US$ 0.016
                                  US$ 1 = CSD 63.32

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1     December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




ECA   -     Europe and Central Asia
ECSPF -     Finance and Private Sector Development Unit in Europe and Central Asia
ICR   -     Implementation Completion Report
IDA   -     International Development Association
MOEP -      Ministry of Economy and Privatization
PA    -     Privatization Agency
PFSAC -     Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
PSD   -     Private Sector Development
RS    -     Republic of Serbia
SAM   -     Serbia and Montenegro
SIDA -      Swedish International Development Agency
SOE   -     Socially-Owned Enterprises
TA    -     Technical Assistance
TF    -     Trust Fund
TSS   -     Transitional Support Strategy




                          Vice President:   Shigeo Katsu
                       Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                        Sector Manager      Gerardo Corrochano
       Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alexander Pankov

                               SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO
                            Private Sector Development TA Grant


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P074145                                                  Project Name: Private Sector Development TA Grant
Team Leader: Alexander Pankov                                        TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 23, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Private Sector Development TA Grant                      L/C/TF Number: TF-29800; TF-50259;
                                                                                                     TF-50296; TF-52718
   Country/Department: SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO                                              Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Regulation
                            and competition policy (P); Small and medium enterprise support
                            (P); Legal institutions for a market economy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/18/2001                                     Effective: 10/22/2001                10/22/2001
     Appraisal: 04/18/2001                                         MTR: 11/30/2002                  11/30/2002
      Approval: 06/29/2001                                      Closing: 06/30/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SAM/PRIVATIZATION AGENCY
                      Other Partners:      Co-financing grants from Governments of Sweden (US$1.69 million) and the
                                           Netherlands (US$2.19 million) (actual exchange rates)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Linn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Director:                Fernando Montes-Negret                         Paul Siegelbaum
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexander Pankov                               Itzhak Goldberg
ICR Primary Author:             Anna Sukiasyan; Alexander
                                Pankov


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         HS
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Private Sector Development Technical Assistance (PSD TA) Project, supported by a US$6 million
WB TF Grant and two co-financing grants from the governments of Sweden (US$1.69 million) and the
Netherlands (US$2.19 million), was conceived in early 2001 to provide urgent assistance to the Republic of
Serbia (RS) in an effort to jump-start private sector production and economic activity, and to unleash the
              1


potential of the private sector. More specifically, the project intended to:

    l support the rapid privatization of approximately 27 important firms through internationally
          accepted methods, using best practices that ensure transparency, competitive tendering, and
          appropriate sales techniques for the companies being privatized;
    l strengthen the capacity of the RS Privatization Agency (PA) to undertake complex privatization
          program using best practices; and
    l support foreign investment and the deregulation of the business environment by strengthening the
          institutional capacity of the Republic of Serbia's Agency for Foreign Investment, Agency for Small
          and Medium Enterprise (SME) Development, and the SME Department of the Ministry of
          Economy and Privatization (MOEP), which will supervise the implementation of the new
          liberalized policies.

Assessment of Objectives. The project development objectives were appropriate and realistic. They were
consistent with the both the Government's long-term reform strategy and the Bank's Transition Support
Strategy (TSS) for FRY, approved by the Board on May 8, 2001. The TSS recognized that the economic
recovery of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) after a decade of sanctions and economic
mismanagement will be led by growth of the private sector. To that effect, the TSS called for the rapid
privatization of state- and socially-owned assets and the rapid establishment of a legal and institutional
                                                  2


framework to support the development of a conducive business environment. At the time of appraisal
(Spring 2001), the Serbian enterprise sector was still dominated by inneficient, heavily subsidized
socially-owned enterprises (SOEs), and the emergence of de novo private sector was stifled by the
inconducive business environment. The project objectives were, therefore, of crucial importance to
Serbia's delayed transition to market economy that started after Milosevic's fall from power in October
2000.

It is important to note that the project was envisaged as a first step, "early win" operation, with a limited
goal of helping to build up institutional capacity and human capital and improving Serbia's international
reputation in preparation for the larger structural reform effort. This project therefore had an intentionally
narrow focus and did not address the comprehensive reform of the enterprise sector and business
environment, which was the subject of additional, broader policy and TA support by the Bank and other
donors. Very importantly, the project supported, on a technical level, achievement of objectives of the two
Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credits (PFSAC I and PFSAC II) that had been successfully
implemented in 2002 and 2003-04, respectively, as well as the IMF's Extended Arrangement progam.
________________
1
 The original name of the Recipient was "the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia" (FRY). The Constitutional Charter of Serbia
and Montenegro was adopted by the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Montenegro and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
effective February 4, 2003 and, as of that date, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia name was changed to "Serbia and
Montenegro" (SAM). Due to the highly devolved nature of the FRY/SAM (most areas of economic policy were in the
competence of the authorities of two constituent republics of FRY/SAM), the actual implementor/ beneficiary of enterprise
sector reforms supported by the Project was the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, for purposes of this report, the term
"Government" would designate the Government of Serbia, unless otherwise specified.



                                                              - 2 -

2
 Social ownership was a legacy of former Yugoslavia, whereby economic assets were deemed to be owned by society
generally, and managed by the employees and the local community.



Assessment of Risks. The risks, rated overall as significant, were adequately assessed at the appraisal
stage. SAM was, and remains, a post-conflict country with heightened risk of political instability. Given
that this was one of the first projects after SAM had renewed its World Bank membership, it was also not
clear how committed the new authorities would be to the complex and politically sensitive transition
reforms, such as enterprise privatization. In practice, while overall performance of the main project
counterparts, above all the Privatization Agency (PA), was exceptional, there were certain implementation
delays caused by changes in the PA management as a result of the Serbian Government reshuffle after
parliamentary elections in late 2003.

It is worth noting that, by mid-2003, the regular risk flags were no longer providing an adequate picture in
regards to this project. On macro risk, the project was flagged by virtue of Serbia being a post-conflict
country. However, since assuming membership, Serbia has demonstrated strong macroeconomic
management as evidenced by the consistently sound Country Policy and Institutional Assessment (CPIA)
ratings. On delayed effectiveness flag, the delay was quite short (1.5 months), and was owing to FRY's
cumbersome and multi-layered ratification procedures after 10-year hiatus in Bank lending. On
disbursements, the project was flagged due to slightly delayed effectiveness, even though the disbursements
had caught up by the project's mid-point. Therefore, in mid-2003, given the successful implementation of
the project and Bank's overall program in Serbia, the project team made the case, and obtained approval,
for a "golden flag."

3.2 Revised Objective:

The original objectives of the project were not revised, and remained valid during entire duration of the
project.


3.3 Original Components:

As referenced in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the project originally had four components
financed from the US$6 million PSD TA Grant.

 Component                                                             Cost (US$ million)
A. Privatization of State- and Socially-owned Enterprises                        3.56
B. Agency for Privatization (PA)                                                 1.09
C. Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME Support                          0.85
D. Project Management and Implementation                                         0.50
Total                                                                            6.00

Component A (Privatization of State and Socially Owned Enterprises) focused on providing support for
rapid privatization of important firms through case-by-case and pool privatization techniques using
internationally reputable investment banks and sales agents hired through internationally competitive
tenders. The assistance intended to cover the fixed fee costs of investment banks, including fees for lawyers
and technical specialists hired to undertake case-by-case and pool privatization of large firms.




                                                          - 3 -

Component B (Agency for Privatization) provided technical assistance to build up institutional competence
to undertake the complex task of running a successful privatization program, including: (i) advisory
services for establishing the PA and assisting the Agency with technical know-how for the privatization
program such as tendering, auctioning, and restructuring procedures as well as valuation of companies, (ii)
intensive training of the staff of the PA in privatization methods and techniques, principles of enterprise
valuation, privatization processes and procedures, and in working with international financial advisors; (iii)
drafting the new privatization regulations; (iv) procurement of hardware and software for the operation of
PA; (v) advisory services and goods for conducting a public relations campaign to educate the general
public on the benefits of privatization; and (vi) advertising efforts for recruiting first-rate international
privatization advisors.

Component C (Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME Support) provided TA funding to finance
the following:

   l advisory services to establish a Foreign Investment Agency in an effort to attract foreign
         investment, including (i) a review of relevant legal and regulatory framework for the agency; (ii)
         diagnostic support to assess and improve environment for FDI; (iii) technical assistance to develop
         a targeted investment promotion strategy, including the identification of key sector targets; (iv)
         support for the purchase of some basic computer equipment and the production of promotion
         materials; and (v) support for the training of Agency staff.
   l assistance to the SME department of the Ministry of Economy and Privatization and support for
         establishment of the SME Agency, including: (i) a review of relevant legislation and establishment
         of the mechanism for deregulation of business activities; (ii) technical assistance to finalize the
         design of a comprehensive and balanced SME support strategy and prioritization of SME support
         programs, based on the internationally proven best practices; (iii) support for the training of
         representatives of local authorities and other local stakeholders in the design and implementation of
         the local economic development programs with the focus on SME promotion; and (iv) support for
         the purchase of some basic computer equipment.

Component D (Project Management and Implementation) supported the establishment and operations of
the Project Management Unit at the PA.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components of the Grant were not officially revised. In February 2002, having seen the strong
commitment of the authorities to the privatization program, the Government of the Netherlands offered to
co-finance the PSD TA project with a grant in the order of US$2.19 mln. In May 2002, following the
Dutch, the Government of Sweden has also extended an offer to co-finance the Project with a grant in the
order of US$1.69 mln, bringing the overall Project amount to US$10.12 million, at actual exchange rates
(not including Government contribution, provided mostly in kind). Both Dutch and Swedish co-financing
grants provided additional funding for Components A, B and D, thus supporting substantial expansion and
acceleration of PA's activities. While there were no changes in the definition or a number of the
components, the amounts have been revised to meet actual TA needs during the implementation period. The
revised allocations by component are summarized in the table below.

Component                                                          Cost (US$ million)
A. Privatization of State- and Socially-owned Enterprises                   5.73
B. Agency for Privatization (PA)                                            2.46



                                                       - 4 -

C. Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME Support                      0.82
D. Project Management and Implementation                                     1.11
Total                                                                       10.12

Closing date. Due to implementation delays caused by the extended period of political uncertainty in the
first half of 2004 (see Section 5.1 below), the project closing date was extended once by six months (from
June 30, 2004, to December 31, 2004) to support the ongoing privatizations.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality of entry is rated satisfactory. The project identified critical TA needs for initiation for
much-delayed enterprise sector reform. The project's objectives were clearly in line with the priorities of the
Serbian reform-minded government formed shortly after Milosevic fall from power. As mentioned in
Section 3.1 above, the project was also consistent with the overall strategy and vision outlined in the FRY
Transitional Support Strategy. The project has been prepared in close collaboration with FIAS, and
MIGA, as well as with the key donors such as USAID, EAR, and GTZ. The results framework was also
rated as sound insofar as it was designed to track the progress towards meeting developmental objectives.

The project components were adequate for supporting the achievement of project development objectives.
The activities envisioned in the Components A and B intended to facilitate the commercial transfer of
socially-owned enterprises to private ownership through establishing and sustaining the capacity of the
Privatization Agency and hiring internationally reputable investment banks to support the PA in the process
of preparing the SOEs for privatization. Component C targeted improvement in the business climate by
building the capacity and institutionally strengthening the SME Agency and providing advisory services to
the SME department of the Ministry of Economy and Privatization, as well as boosting foreign investments
through the assistance provided to the Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency (SIEPA).
Component D was instrumental in administering and implementing the project activities in accordance with
the World Bank guidelines on procurement, disbursement, and financial management.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Achievement of objectives and outputs under the PSD TA Grant is rated satisfactory. Before going into
detailed justification of the rating, it should be noted that the project was instrumental in supporting the
initiation and implementation of a comprehensive enterprise privatization program in Serbia. The project
also supported the creation of basic instututional framework for improving business environment and
promoting foreign investment. As noted elsewhere, the PSD TA Project played a key role in providing
timely and high-quality technical assistance to the Serbian authorities for achieving the relevant policy
objectives set in the Bank's PFSAC and PFSAC II programs. The overall scope, pace and quality of these
early measures, especially on the enterprise privatization front, compared favorably to similar stages of
reform in other transition economies.

Progress in achieving the developmental objective can be assessed on the basis of the following indicators
listed in the original Project Appraisal Document:

    l number of enterprises sold;
    l inrease in foreign direct investments (FDI); and
    l increase in the number of newly established small and medium enterprises (SMEs).




                                                       - 5 -

Outcome and impact targets for sale of SOEs, and the increase in FDI and number of SOEs have all been
met and surpassed. More specifically:

l Privatization. According to PA's data, 1,138 companies were privatized from the beginning of 2002
    until the end of December 2004, generating more than US$1.5 billion of revenue for the budget, almost
    US$1 billion of new investment commitments and around US$400 million for social programs. From
    this number, 42 large SOEs have been sold through tender procedure, and some 1,050 through auction.
    The largest transactions included the sale of Serbia's two cigarette factories to Philip Morris (US) and
    British American Tobacco (UK), and the sale of the fuel retailer Beopetrol to LUKoil (Russia) in 2003.


l FDI. According to UNCTAD World Investment Report for Serbia and Montenegro, the FDI flows
    amounted to US$165 million in 2001, US$475 millions in 2002, US$1,360 million in 2003, and
    US$400 million in 2004. The general political instability and the resulting slowdown in privatization
    in 2004 are responsible for a slowdown in 2004. Strong growth of FDI resumed in the first two months
    of 2005 reaching US$289 million compared with US$113 million in the same period of 2004.

l SME Development. The number of registered SMEs in Serbia has grown from 180,431 in 2000 to
    more than 220,000 at the end of 2003. Their share in total enterprise sector assets has increased from
    19.5 percent in 2001 to 28.3 percent in 2002, and to 30.9 percent in 2003, which is indicative of SMEs
    becoming a more important segment of the economy. According to the data of the Republic Statistical
    Office, the small enterprises comprised 96.2 percent of the total number of enterprises active in Serbia,
    and the medium-sized enterprises accounted for additional 2.9 percent. Of the overall number of
    employees working in the enterprise sector in 2003, some 339,900 employees (or 29.4 percent) worked
    in small-sized companies and around 260,600 employees (or 22.6 percent) in medium-sized companies.




4.2 Outputs by components:

Component A. Privatization of State- and Socially-owned Enterprises. This component is rated as
highly satisfactory. It provided the technical assistance to the PA for implementation of an ambitious,
multi-track privatization program aimed to release the assets held by the SOEs for productive use. The
Privatization Law (issued in 2001, amended in 2003) stipulates three methods of privatization: (i) tenders
of large enterprises, offering to a strategic investor at least 70 percent of the shares; (ii) auctions of small
and medium-sized enterprises; and (iii) restructuring and subsequent tenders and auctions of a select group
of large, presently loss-making but potentially viable enterprises or parts thereof. The subject project
provided support for the first two tracks.

Tenders. The Project financed the retainer fees of qualified privatization advisors, led by investment banks,
to prepare and execute the sale of a number of large SOEs using open international tender process. The
objective was to provide potentially viable companies with strong, commercially oriented owners who
would bring good management practices, modern technology, investments, environmental and social
protection as well as access to capital markets. To that end, the PA has engaged expert privatization
advisors for 54 large SOEs, organized in twelve pools by industry. Six pools had been financed by the WB
Grant, and three each by the Dutch and Swedish grants. As of April 2005, 23 enterprises have been
successfully sold, mostly to foreign strategic investors. This represents a success rate of >42 percent,
which is quite high considering the difficult political environment in Serbia and unfavorable global



                                                       - 6 -

investment climate. Tenders are still ongoing or planned for 7 more enterprises. 10 more SOEs have been
moved to auctions after the tender failed, and the remaining enterprises are now undergoing restructuring
prior to being re-tendered.

Auctions. In July, 2002, the Prime Minister announced an Accelerated Auction Privatization Program,
aimed at privatization of small and medium-sized SOEs. Per Government's request, the Project provided
funding for consulting service to assist the PA by organizing required documentation, encouraging demand
through promotional campaign, and conducting auctions in several locations across the country. Between
July 2002 and December 2004, more than 1,300 SOEs offered for sale through auction, of which some
1,050 were successfully sold, with the total cash price of more than Euro 420 million. This represents a
remarkable success rate of nearly 80 percent.

Component B. Building Institutional Capacity of the Privatization Agency. This component is rated as
satisfactory. The PA has been established on the basis on the Law on the Privatization Agency in June
2001. With the Project support, including a comprehensive public information campaign, the PA has
quickly established itself as one of the most active and efficient public agencies in Serbia.

By the end of project life, the PA has employed over 200 people, both staff and local consultants. The
PA's core business activities are organized around four departments in accordance with privatization
method : (a) auctions; (b) tenders; (c) restructuring; and (d) capital market operations. Other activities of
the PA -- finance, legal, research, etc. -- are all designed to support the four core activities. By
end-December 2004, organizational structure of the Privatization Agency looked as follows:


                                          Supervisory Board


                                                    Director



                                                Executive Director
                                                Director



            Administration         Legal Dept                Auctions                    Finance

            - Public relations   - Legal services                                     - Accounting
            - Human relations    - Transactions               Tenders                 - Budget
            - Research           - Compliance                                         - Internal audit
            - Archives                                    Restructuring               - Procurement
            - Registry
            - General services
            - Regional offices                            Capital markets




Despite increasing competition from the private sector, the PA has been able to recruit highly qualified
local staff and consultants thanks to the ability to offer competetive salaries and fees financed by the
Project. In particular, as the Agency's employees do not have the status of civil servants, the Project was
able to finance the salaries of the Director and a small number of core management staff. In addition, the
Project financed the consulting fees for a number of Serbian project managers and assistant project
managers. Finally, the Project financed two senior international privatization experts to work as resident
advisors to the PA through the implementation period. The role of these advisors in providing day-to-day



                                                        - 7 -

technical guidance to the management and staff, interacting with the investment banks and Bank, and
ensuring the trasparency of privatization process cannot be overestimated.

Component C. Institutional Strengthening of the Agency for Foreign Investment/Agency for SME
Support

This component is rated as satisfactory. It supported the set-up of basic institutional framework for
investment promotion and SME development. The component was developed and supervised in close
coordination with MIGA and FIAS.

Promotion of FDI. The Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency (SIEPA) was established in
September 2002. In coordination with other donors, the Project supported SIEPA capacity building
program, including purchase of IT and presentation equipment, acquiring investment promotion skills,
developing promotional materials, and conducting outreach capacity to potential investor. Very
importantly, the Project financed a senior investment promotion expert with vast regional experience, who
provided strategic and operational advice to SIEPA's management on a regular basis.
By the end of the project, SIEPA employed 25 trained staff. The capacity building program has been
positively influential in terms of enabling SIEPA to become the focal point for investment promotion.
From a handful of enquiries in 2002, the number of investment related enquiries processed by SIEPA
increased to about 300 in 2004. Through its outreach campaign, SIPEA directly targeting 1,650 potential
investors, and plans to run frequent targeted marketing programs in the future. SIEPA played a prominent
role in facilitating one of the largest greenfield investment in Serbia to date - Ball Corporation (Euro 75
million) with 300 employment opportunities, as well as a number of other investments.

Complementary to the SIEPA TA program, the Project financed a preparation of an administrative barriers
study for Serbia. Prepared under closed supervision, the report has been circulated to all stakeholders, and
has served a useful input into the forthcoming Investment Climate Assessment for Serbia.

SME Development. In close cooperation with USAID, the Project provded supported start-up costs
(salaries and fees of core staff and consultant and some IT equipment) for the Agency for SME
Development. Established in summer of 2001, the Agency has been providing a broad range of activities in
the areas of training, information support, business linkages and trade fairs, and facilitating access to
finance. The Agency operates the regional network of SME Centers, providing assistance to entrepreneurs
at the local and municipal levels. In 2003, 3,020 clients contacted the entrepreneurial service of the SME
Agency for assistance in legal and financial consulting. The assistance was given for the creation of 486
business plans, and the services of "help" line were used by 5,895 clients.

The Project also supported the establishment of the Inter-Ministerial Council on Regulatory Reform by
financing the hiring of a full-time Secretary, and part-time techical and legal experts. The Council became
a permanent advisory body to the Government of Serbia on laws and policies affecting businesses by
receiving the authority to review and comment all draft laws and government decrees prior to adoption. The
Council was instrumental in preparing a number of key business environment reforms under the PFSAC
program (business registration reform, drafting of new Company Law).

 (d) Project Implementation Support. This component is rated as highly satisfactory.                Under this
component one of the first Project Management Unit (PMU) in the country has been established at the PA.
The PMU core staff of four have benefited from in-depth training in Bank's procurement, disbursement,
and financial management techniques. Given the scarcity of project implementation capacity in Serbia in
general, it is expected that the PMU will continue to provide project administration services to the Bank


                                                       - 8 -

and other donor on a fee basis.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

Institutional development impact is rated as high. The project played a key role in creating the institutional
capacity for implementing complex transition reforms in the enterprise sector. In particular, the Project
helped to create and strengthen three insitutions that would be crucial in any transition program, i.e., the
agencies for privatization, investment promotion, and SME development. The Bank's successful
coordination of donor support with its own resources had a major impact in both maximizing the impact of
resources by improving efficiency and targeting of assistance and in improving operational efficiency by
ensuring that appropriate support could be provided at the time it was required. Very importantly, the
Bank's assistance was based on international best-practice, with lessons applied from setting up and
running similar institutions in other transition economies.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

General political instability in Serbia has been a major factor affecting the pace of implementation of
politically sensitive reforms supported by the Project. In particular, the assassination of the Serbian Prime
Minister Zoran Djindjic in March 2003 led to prolonged period of political uncertainty, with several rounds
of presidential and parliamentary election held in the course of the year, which finally resulted on the
formation of new coalition government in February 2004. Despite the attempts by the opposition to use
privatization as a political weapon, the Serbian authorities should be given credit for staying on the course
of reform and achieving the planned project outcomes.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Government commitment. The Serbian authorities consistently displayed strong commitment to the
enterprise sector reforms supported under the Project, and, in broader terms, under PFSAC program. After
taking office in February 2004, the new Serbian government reaffirmed its commitment to the project
objectives and made a commendable effort to accelerate the implementation of the Project before the
closing date of December 31, 2004.

PA management issues. Prolonged period political instability in Serbia in 2003 resulted in disruptions in
governance of the PA. The director of the Agency was changed twice in the first half of 2004, reflecting
the shifts in power at the government level. This instability has resulted in a number of skilled staff and
consultants leaving the Agency, although the situation has since been normalized.




                                                      - 9 -

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing arrangements for this project have proven very successful. The only notable problem
occurred in the early stages of project implementation when the PA has contracted out the payment of its
employees' salaries and fees to a third party. Once the PA has been informed of the financial management
risks associated with this arrangement, the situation was rectified to make sure that the people working at
the Agency were to be paid by the PA from a single source only (i.e., either from the Project's Special
Account or from the Agency's own budget) and that they would be employed either solely as staff of the
Agency, or individual consultants to the Agency.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Not applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as highly likely. The activities supported by the Project, above all
privatization of SOEs through tender and auction, are largely irreversible. The enterprise sector reforms
have substantial buy-in across the political spectrum. The authorities are committed to complete the
privatization of remaining SOEs by the end of 2006, with the ongoing policy support under the Bank's
PDPL program.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Appropriate arrangements have been made to continue providing adequate TA to the PA for completion of
divestiture of socially-owned assets. The ongoing World Bank's Privatization and Restructuring of Banks
and Enterprises Technical Assistance Credit (approved by the Board in December 2003) builds upon and
expands the privatization agenda started under PSD TA grant, dealing with the largest loss-making SOEs
that require restructuring prior to being offered for sale. Moreover, the European Agency for
Reconstruction (EAR) has recently agreed to finance privatizations and bankruptcies of remaining large
SOEs through a large grant to the PA, to be provided through the World Bank and largely based on the
PSD TA model. At the same time, both SME Agency and SIEPA have secured adequate budget financing,
which is in the case of SIEPA will be complemented by a planned EAR grant executed by MIGA.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank performance at Lending stage is rated as highly satisfactory. This was one of the first Bank
projects after FRY's renewed membership in the World Bank had been approved; yet the project was
prepared with the record speed (less than three months between concept review and project's approval by
Regional VP) in response to the urgent technical needs of the Client. The Bank team prepared the project is
very close cooperation with the working group for enterprise sector reform comprised of representatives of
Ministry of Economy and Privatization (MOEP), Ministry of International Economic Relations (MIER),
and key donors, including UK DFID, US USAID and EAR. This participatory approach helped crystallize
the authorities' commitment to pursuing difficult project objectives, and built on synergies between various
donor agencies to achieve the maximum impact from the TA.




                                                      - 10 -

To initiate the institution building at the PA even prior to project effectiveness, provisions had been made
for retroactive financing. Pre-implementation mission had been carried out in June 2001 to help build the
capacity of PMU through a week-long series of intensive workshops on Bank procurement, disbursement,
and financial management procedures.

7.2 Supervision:

The bank performance at supervision is rated as highly satisfactory. The Bank team provided focused
supervision of the project supported activities, interacting closely with the counterparts both at the technical
(i.e., PA, SIEPA, and SME Agency) and policy level (MOEP and MIER), and coordinating its activities
with relevant donors as needed. The numerous project implementation issues, inevitable in such a complex
and politically sensitive project, were being diagnosed and dealt with in a timely and efficient manner. The
skill mix of the supervision team was fully adequate, comprising both technical specialists and operational
staff. Very importantly, the same team has been involved in preparation and supervision of the enterprise
sector reform components in PFSAC program.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Beneficiary performance during the preparation period is rated as highly satisfactory. Extensive
consultations were held with the beneficiaries. The reform-minded authorities contributed greatly to the
project design.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The performance during implementation is rated as satisfactory. The project received consistent support
from the Serbian Government given its importance for achieving the policy objectives of Bank's PFSAC
program and IMF program. The authorities can be complimented for providing adequate co-financing and
in-kind support for start-up costs and operation of PA, SIEPA and SME Agency. At the same time, the
authorities could have potentially mitigated the disruptions in PA's operations during the first half of 2004,
resulting from changes in the Agency's management.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of all three implementing agencies was satisfactory. Being responsible for the by far
largest portion of the Project, the PA in particular greatly facilitated the project implementation and proved
to be very efficient in addressing issues within its control.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Overall, the Beneficiary's performance is rated as satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned

The following lessons can be highlighted:




                                                      - 11 -

l Importance of specific drawing lessons from other transition economies.The project design reflected
    best practice lessons from the Bank's prior operations in ECA, tailored to Serbian environment. In
    particular, it recognized the need for a clean and transparent privatization process run by independent
    and efficient agency. Both at the preparation and implementation stages the project benefited
    tremendously from direct experiences of staff and consultants who had practical experience with
    privatization programs in countries such as Lithuania, Poland, Russia, and Romania.

l TA linkage to Bank's policy reform program. Technical assistance in support of politically difficult
    transition reforms have a higher chance of success if designed as an integral part of Bank's broader
    sector assistance strategy, supported at the policy level by relevant conditions in adjustment
    operation(s). The reverse is also true ­ as observed in the ICRs for both PFSAC I and II, the Bank's
    ability to provide extensive technical assistance on a timely basis has been enormously important in
    enabling the PFSAC program to achieve its objectives on enterprise sector reform, as recorded in
    relevant policy conditions on privatization of SOEs and measures to improve the business environment.


l Reform champions at the policy level. The implementation of a complex and politically sensitive TA
    program does not only require a fully functioning implementing agency, but also constant support at
    the level of senior policy-making. In this case, from the very inception the Project enjoyed full support
    of the reform-minded MOEP and MIER, above all ministers themselves, who protected the
    implementing agencies from political risks and ensured the policy environment conducive to achieving
    the project objectives.

l Importance of donor coordination. The effective coordination by the Bank of technical assistance
    provided by bilateral donors can be a critical factor in quickly developing the institutional capacity to
    implement high impact reforms. At every stage of project preparation and implementation, the team
    maintained a robust dialogue with donors in order to avoid duplication of efforts and leverage support
    for the reforms outlined in PFSAC program. The Bank project served as a catalyst in organizing and
    coordinating support for Government's enterprise sector reform program by the governments of the
    Netherland and Sweden, UK DFID, EAR, USAID.

l Creating efficient project administration arrangements is a critical factor for implementing the
    complex technical assistance program. In this case, the Bank team has invested major effort early on in
    setting up fully operational, competent Project Management Unit at the PA to make sure that the
    activities under the project are implemented in a timely and transparent manner, in full accordance with
    the Bank's standards on procurement, disbursement, and financial management.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Comments by the Ministry of Economy and Privatization, Republic of Serbia

The Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Project, supported by a US$6 million WB TF Grant
and two co-financing grants from the governments of Sweden (US$1.69 million) and the Netherlands
(US$2.19 million), was conceived in early 2001 to provide urgent assistance to the Republic of Serbia in
an effort to strengthen private sector production and economic activity, and to unleash the potential of the
private sector. The project objectives were consistent with Government's reform strategy and of crucial
importance to Serbia's delayed transition to market economy.



                                                     - 12 -

We find that the outcome of the Project is highly satisfactory. The Project played a key role in creating the
institutional capacity for implementing complex transition reforms in the enterprise sector. In particular, the
Project helped to create and strengthen three institutions that are crucial in any transition program, i.e., the
Privatization Agency, Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency, and Agency for SME
development. Very importantly, the project provided much needed technical assistance that made possible
achievement of objectives of the World Bank's Private and Financial Sector Adjustment credits (PFSAC I
and PFSAC II), as well as the IMF's Extended Arrangement.

Comments by the Privatization Agency, Republic of Serbia

One of the Project objectives was to strengthen the capacity of the Privatization Agency to undertake
complex privatization program using best practices. The PA has been established on the basis of the Law
on the Privatization Agency in July 2001. With the Project support, the PA has quickly established itself as
one of the most active and efficient public agencies in Serbia. From the beginning of 2002 until the end of
December 2004, the PA has managed to privatize 1,138 companies, generating more than US$1.5 billion of
revenue for the budget, almost US$1 billion of new investment commitments and around US$400 million
for social programs. From this number, 42 large SOEs have been sold through tender procedure, and some
1,050 through auction. The largest transactions included the sale of Serbia's two cigarette factories to
Philip Morris (US) and British American Tobacco (UK), and the sale of the fuel retailer Beopetrol to
LUKoil (Russia) in 2003.

The Ministry of Economy and Privatization consistently displayed strong commitment to the enterprise
sector reforms supported under the Project, and, in broader terms, under PFSAC program. After taking
office in February 2004, the new Serbian government reaffirmed its commitment to the Project objectives
and made a significant effort to accelerate the implementation of the Project before its closing date i.e.
December 31, 2004.

One of the first Project Management Unit (PMU) in the country has been established at the PA. The PMU
core staff have benefited from trainings in World Bank's procurement, disbursement, and financial
management techniques. Competent PMU at the PA made sure that the activities under the Project were
implemented in a timely and transparent manner, in full accordance with the World Bank's standards on
procurement.

Comments by the Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency, Republic of Serbia

The Serbian Investment and Export Promotion Agency (SIEPA) was established in September 2002. In
coordination with other donors, the Project provided essential support for Agency's start-up expenses,
including (i) a review of relevant legal and regulatory framework for the agency; (ii) diagnostic support to
assess and improve environment for FDI; (iii) technical assistance to develop a targeted investment
promotion strategy, including the identification of key sector targets; (iv) support for the purchase of some
basic computer equipment and the production of promotion materials; and (v) support for the training of
Agency staff.

By the end of the Project, SIEPA employed 25 trained staff. The capacity building program has been
positively influential in terms of enabling SIEPA to become the focal point for investment promotion. From
a handful of enquiries in 2002, the number of investment related enquiries processed by SIEPA increased to
about 300 in 2004. Through its outreach campaign, SIPEA directly targeting 1,650 potential investors and
plans to run frequent targeted marketing programs in the future. SIEPA played a prominent role in


                                                    - 13 -

facilitating one of the largest greenfield investment in Serbia to date - Ball Corporation (Euro 75 million)
with 300 employment opportunities, as well as a number of other investments.

We would also like to thank the staff of the PMU established within the PA for providing all the necessary
support and assistance in implementation of SIEPA sub-component.

Comments by the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) Development, Republic of Serbia

One of the Project's objectives was to support the deregulation of the business environment by
strengthening the institutional capacity of the Republic of Serbia's Agency for Small and Medium
Enterprise (SME) Development, and the SME Department of the Ministry of Economy and Privatization,
which supervised the implementation of the new liberalized policies.

The Project provided funding for: (i) a review of relevant legislation and establishment of the mechanism
for deregulation of business activities; (ii) technical assistance to finalize the design of a comprehensive and
balanced SME support strategy and prioritization of SME support programs, based on the internationally
proven best practices; (iii) support for the training of representatives of local authorities and other local
stakeholders in the design and implementation of the local economic development programs with the focus
on SME promotion; and (iv) support for the purchase of some basic computer equipment. Very
importantly, the Project supported start-up costs (salaries and fees of core staff and consultant and some IT
equipment) for the Agency for SME Development. Established in summer of 2001, the Agency for SME
Development has been providing a broad range of activities in the areas of training, information support,
business linkages and trade fairs, and facilitating access to finance.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of enterprises sold                   1,138 companies were privatized from the        1,138 companies were privatized from the
                                             beginning of 2002 until the end of December beginning of 2002 until the end of December
                                             2004, generating more than US$1.5 billion of 2004, generating more than US$1.5 billion of
                                             revenue for the budget, almost US$1 billion     revenue for the budget, almost US$1 billion
                                             of new investment commitments and around of new investment commitments and around
                                             US$400 million for social programs.             US$400 million for social programs.
Increase in Foreign Direct Investment        The FDI flows amounted to US$165 million in The FDI flows amounted to US$165 million in
                                             2001, US$475 millions in 2002, US$1,360         2001, US$475 millions in 2002, US$1,360
                                             million in 2003, and US$400 million in 2004. million in 2003, and US$400 million in 2004.
                                             Strong growth of FDI resumed in the first two Strong growth of FDI resumed in the first two
                                             months of 2005 reaching US$289 million          months of 2005 reaching US$289 million
                                             compared with US$113 million in the same        compared with US$113 million in the same
                                             period of 2004.                                 period of 2004.
Increase in the number of newly established  The number of registered SMEs in Serbia         The number of registered SMEs in Serbia
SMEs                                         has grown from 180,431 in 2000 to more          has grown from 180,431 in 2000 to more
                                             than 220,000 at the end of 2003. Their share than 220,000 at the end of 2003. Their share
                                             in total enterprise sector assets has           in total enterprise sector assets has
                                             increased from 19.5 percent in 2001 to 28.3     increased from 19.5 percent in 2001 to 28.3
                                             percent in 2002, and to 30.9 percent in 2003. percent in 2002, and to 30.9 percent in 2003.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Pool privatization of at least 27 medium and 40 large SOEs have been sold through            42 large SOEs have been sold through
large SOEs                                   tender procedure, and some 1,000 SMEs           tender procedure, and some 1,050 SMEs
                                             through auction                                 through auction


Agency for Privatization is fully staffed,   PA is fully staffed (200 people, both staff and PA is fully staffed (200 people, both staff and
trained, and operational                     consultants), trained, and operational          consultants), trained, and operational


Number of foreign-investor inquiries         From a handful of enquiries in 2002, the        From a handful of enquiries in 2002, the
processed by the Agency for Foreign          number of investment related enquiries          number of investment related enquiries
Investment steadily increases                processed by SIEPA increased to about 300 processed by SIEPA increased to about 300
                                             in 2004                                         in 2004
Number of SMEs assisted by the Agency for SME Agency has become fully fully staffed          SME Agency has become fully fully staffed
SME Development steadily increases           and operational. In 2003, 3,020 clients         and operational. In 2003, 3,020 clients
                                             contacted the entrepreneurial service of the    contacted the entrepreneurial service of the
                                             SME Agency for assistance in legal and          SME Agency for assistance in legal and
                                             financial consulting. The assistance was        financial consulting. The assistance was
                                             given for the creation of 486 business plans, given for the creation of 486 business plans,
                                             and the services of "help" line were used by    and the services of "help" line were used by
                                             5,895 clients.                                  5,895 clients.

1End of project




                                                                 - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million   US$ million
(a) Privatization of SOEs                                      7.17             5.73            80
(b) Program for stregnthening the capacity of the PA           1.79             2.46           137
(c ) Assisting the SIEPA and the Agency for SME support        0.84             0.82            98
(d) Project implementation support                             0.73             1.11           152
(e) Unallocated                                                0.06

Total Baseline Cost                                           10.59           10.12
                         Total Project Costs                  10.59           10.12
                   Total Financing Required                   10.59           10.12


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.00          0.21          0.00        0.21
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.21)          (0.00)     (0.21)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00          8.27          0.00        8.27
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (8.12)          (0.00)     (8.12)
4. Training                         0.00             0.00          0.23          0.00        0.23
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.23)          (0.00)     (0.23)
5. Incremental Oper. Cost           0.00             0.00          0.99          1.00        1.99
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.97)          (0.00)     (0.97)
6. Unallocated                      0.00             0.00          0.06          0.00        0.06
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.06)          (0.00)     (0.06)
   Total                            0.00             0.00          9.76          1.00       10.76
                                   (0.00)            (0.00)      (9.59)          (0.00)     (9.59)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                 Other
1. Works                            0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                            0.00             0.00         0.23           0.00       0.23
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.23)         (0.00)     (0.23)
3. Services                         0.00             0.00         9.00           0.00       9.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)       (8.36)         (0.00)     (8.36)
4. Training                         0.00             0.00         0.04           0.00       0.04


                                                  - 16 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.04)            (0.00)           (0.04)
    5. Incremental Oper. Cost               0.00               0.00              1.02             0.00              1.02
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.88)            (0.00)           (0.88)
    6. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00             10.29             0.00             10.29
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (9.51)            (0.00)           (9.51)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
(a) Privatization of SOEs       3.50         0.93         2.91        3.30         0.10       2.26       94.3      10.8     77.7
(b) Program for                 1.07         0.32         0.47        0.95         0.18       1.13       88.8      56.3    240.4
stregnthening the capacity
of the PA
(c ) Assisting the SIEPA        0.84         0.00         0.00        0.75         0.07       0.00       89.3      0.0       0.0
and the Agency for SME
support
(d) Project implementation      0.53         0.02         0.20        0.77         0.11       0.20       145.3    550.0    100.0
support
(e) Unallocated                 0.06         0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
TOTAL                           6.00         1.27         3.59        5.77         0.46       3.59       96.2      36.2    100.0




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation




 Appraisal/Negotiation



 Supervision

               10/17/2001                 3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                  S               S
                                               (1); PROJECT TEAM LEADER
                                               (1); PRIVATIZATION
                                               SPECIALI (1)
               10/31/2002                 5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               PROGRAM TEAM LEADER
                                               (1); PRIVATIZATION
                                               SPECIALI (1); BUSINESS
                                               ENVIRONMENT (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               05/13/2003                 3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER                  S               S
                                               (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                               SENIOR PRIVATIZATION S
                                               (1)
               09/18/2003                 6    TTL (1); PRIVATIZATION               S               S
                                               SPECIALI (1); SENIOR PSD
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (2); PAS (1)
               09/30/2004                 4    TTL (1); CONSULTANT (2);             S               S
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)


 ICR
                                         2     TTL (1); Consultant (1)              S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  20                       70,000
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       25                       87,500
  Supervision                                 57                      200,000
  ICR                                          3                       10,500
  Total                                       88                      368,000



                                               - 19 -

- 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Background documents
l Yugoslavia: Transitional Support Strategy, July 25, 2001, R2001-0049/2
l Yugoslavia Transitional Support Strategy Update
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia: Breaking with the Past. Report No 22267-YU, July 15, 2001
l Serbia Private Sector Policy Note, 2004
l Serbia Economic Memorandum, 2004
l World Bank. August 5, 2004. An evaluation of World Bank assistance to the transition economies
   (Report No. 29761). Operations Evaluation Department. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank

Project Appraisal Documents
l Federal Republic of Yugosalvia Private Sector Development Technical Assistance Grant, 2001
l Serbia and Montenegro, Privatization and Restructuring of Banks and Enterprises TA Credit, 2003


Program Documents
l First Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit, 2002
l Second Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report No 25855 - YU, May 14, 2003


Implementation Completion Reports
l Implementation Completion Report, Private and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit. Report 27530,
   December 19, 2003

Project Documents
l Aide Memories and Project Status Reports




                                                - 23 -

- 24 -

