Page  1
The World Bank 
W
ashington, D.C. 20433 
U.S.A. 
 
O
RSALIA KALANTZOPOULOS 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator for  
S
outheast Europe  
E
urope and Central Asia Region 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
December 18, 2003 
 
H.E. Branko Lukovac 
Minister for International Economic Relations 
Ministry for International Economic Relations 
Bulevar Mihajla Pupina 2 
11000 Belgrade 
Serbia and Montenegro 
 
Re:  Swedish Grant for Serbia Business Registration Reform 
Grant Number TF052718
 
Dear Mr. Minister: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the In
ternational Development Association (IDA) to indicate IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Sweden, to make a grant in an amount not 
exceeding thirteen million Swedish Kroner (SEK 13,000,000) (the Grant) to Serbia and Montenegro 
(the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the purposes 
and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The Recipient 
represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the 
Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is IDA’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement and any 
information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the Recipient 
has given its consent to such disclosure. The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter Agreement, 
confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the copy 
of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of 
the date of the countersignature. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Country Director and Regional Coordinator 
for Southeast Europe  
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
AGREED: 
SERBIA AND MONTENEGRO 
 
By: /s/ Branko Lukovac 
Title:  Minister for International Economic Relations 
 
Date: 
January 8, 2004 
 
Page  3
-
3
-
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Purposes 
and 
Activities
The purpose of the Grant is to support the Republic of Serbia in the implementation of the 
Business Registration Reform, which has as main its objective the carrying out of a 
comprehensive reform of the Republic’s business registry system. The activities (the Activities) for 
which the Grant is given are as follows: 
 
(a)  
provision of consultants’ services to the Serbia Business Registration Agency 
(SBRA) for: (i) central office and customer service centers; (ii)  updating of the existing company 
database; and (iii) a publicity and information campaign; (estimated to cost US$2,700,000 
equivalent); 
 
(b)  
provision to the SBRA of: (i) hardware and software; (ii) goods for publicity and 
information campaign; and (iii) goods to establish the central office and customer service centers, 
(estimated to cost US$216,063 equivalent); 
 
(c)  
provision of training in software and database management for the SBRA staff 
(estimated to cost US$54,837 equivalent); and 
 
(d)  
provision of financing for the audit of the Grant (estimated to cost US$11,330). 
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Republic of Serbia: (a) carries out the Activities with due 
diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provides the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for that purpose; (c) furnishes all information covering the Activities and the use of the 
proceeds of the Grant as IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchanges views with 
IDA’s representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; (e) takes all necessary measures 
required to enable IDA to visit the territory of the Republic of Serbia for purposes related to the 
Grant; and (f) causes all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used 
exclusively for the purposes of the Grant. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall 
ensure that the Republic of Serbia, if IDA shall so request, prepares and furnishes to IDA promptly 
upon completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results 
and impact of the Activities. 
 
2.2. 
The Recipient shall make available to Republic of Serbia the proceeds of the Grant for 
purposes of carrying out the Activities in accordance with a subsidiary grant agreement to be entered 
between the Recipient and the Republic of Serbia, and satisfactory to IDA. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex. 
 
3.2.  
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
Page  4
-
4
-
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods. The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices 
and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed. 
 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated 
(in Swedish Kroner)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
be Financed
(1) Consultants’ services  
 
(a) Services by individuals 
 
(b) Services by firms, 
including auditing 
services 
 
2,150,000 
 
100,000 
 
87% 
 
97% 
(2) Goods 
 
9,200,000 
 
100%  
(3) Training  
 
450,000  
 
100% 
(4) Incremental operating  
 
costs 
 1,100,000
90% 
 
TOTAL 
 
13,000,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the following terms mean: 
 
(a) 
“training” means expenditures incurred in connection with conducting 
training/workshops and stakeholder consultations, including travel costs, subsistence, rental of 
facilities, translation/interpretation costs and costs of materials; and 
 
(b)  
“incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary incremental 
expenditures, as approved by IDA, incurred by the SBRA with respect to Grant implementation, 
management and monitoring, including office space, office supplies, utilities, publication of 
procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of 
officials and employees of the Recipient and the Republic of Serbia. 
 
Page  5
-
5
-
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient on goods; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for goods produced in 
or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to IDA’s knowledge, is prohibited by 
a
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after August 31, 2004, or 
such later date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).  However, 
withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
if the corresponding withdrawal application is received by IDA within four months after the Closing 
Date, after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be canceled; and 
 
(c) 
If, in IDA’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the Categories in 
the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures under such Category, 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such Category an amount of the Grant then 
allocated to another Category which, in IDA’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other 
expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of 
the Republic of Serbia or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
IDA that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by 
the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent; (c) training; (d) contracts for goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (e) 
incremental operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of 
the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the 
purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by IDA. 
 
4.7. 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in Euros 
a
special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
Page  6
-
6
-
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect  the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) 
above for each such fiscal year (or other period agreed to by IDA), audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards, acceptable to IDA, by independent auditors acceptable to 
IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end 
of each such year (or such other period agreed to by IDA), (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above for such year (or such other  period agreed to by 
IDA), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail 
satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information concerning such records and 
accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall have 
reasonably requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
year after IDA has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (ii) enable IDA’s representatives to examine 
such records; and (iii) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit for each 
fiscal year, or other period agreed to by IDA, referred to in subparagraph (b) above. 
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with 
IDA shall have been suspended. 
6.2. 
IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, 
at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project. 
 
Page  7
-
7
-
Attachment I  
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sections I 
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by IDA in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and 
May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for tasks under paragraph 1.1 (c) and (d) of the Annex estimated to cost less than 
US$70,000 equivalent in the aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) SBRA under paragraph 1.1 (a) of the Annex 
tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) director of SBRA under paragraph 1.1 (a) of the Annex 
may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of IDA. 
 
Part D
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to IDA for 
its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such 
plan shall be updated every 3 months during the execution of the Activities, and each such 
updating shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to 
time) as shall have been approved by IDA. 
Page  8
-
8
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of consulting firms, 
and all contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants, all contracts to be selected on a sole source basis, and all contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the 
report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, the qualifications, 
experience and terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished 
to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval 
shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines 
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999  (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 
5
of
Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C:
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $110,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  9
-
9
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be procured under the Part B of this Section II, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts to be procured under Part C of this Section 
II, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations 
received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Recipient shall provide to the 
Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  10
-
10
-
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means the Categories set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of EUR 500,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as 
IDA shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
IDA the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, IDA shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by IDA from the Grant 
Account under the eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  11
-
11
-
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless IDA shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount. 
 
