Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
November 19, 2003 
 
ADMINISTRATION AGREEMENT 
 
Agreement between the Government of Sweden through Swedish  
 
International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and the International  
 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International  
 
Development Association concerning the Serbia Business Registration  
 
Reform Grant (TF No. 052718). 
 
In pursuance of the Cofinancing, Technical Assistance and Consultant Trust Fund 
Framework Agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden (“Sweden”) and the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development (“IBRD”) and the International Development Association 
(“Association”), (the IBRD and the Association being hereinafter referred to jointly as the 
“Bank”), dated as of March 23, 1998 (the “Agreement”), as amended, I am pleased to inform you 
of the intention of Sweden to make available a contribution (the “Contribution”) of thirteen 
million Swedish Kroner (SEK 13,000,000) as a grant to be administered by the Bank for the 
Serbia Business Registration Reform Project in Serbia and Montenegro (the Recipient).  The 
terms of the Agreement shall apply to the Contribution. The Bank shall administer the 
Contribution in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, except as otherwise provided 
herein. 
 
The Contribution is for Recipient-executed technical assistance and shall be used 
exclusively for the following purposes, as further described in the Annex to this Administration 
Agreement: (i) acquisition of hardware and software for the Serbia Business Registration Agency 
(SBRA); (ii) conducting public information campaigns; (iii) capacity building for the SBRA; and 
(iv) management and implementation of Recipient-executed activities related to the Contribution.   
 
The Contribution shall be used for the following items:  
 
Category
Amount   
 
(in Swedish Kroner)
1. 
Consultants’ fees 
  2,700,000 
2. 
Goods 
  9,200,000 
3. 
Incremental operating costs of the Recipient 
  1,100,000
13,000,000
The Bank has no authority to reallocate between the categories but can reallocate between the 
budget lines in the budget tables as stated in the Project Document attached to the Annex to this 
Administration Agreement, up to limits as follows:  
-
For Category 1.  up to 500.000 SEK 
-
For Category 2.  up to 700.000 SEK 
-
For Category 3  up to 500.000 SEK  
 
In a case that reallocation between the categories is above this limits, the Bank has to prepare the 
written notice and to obtain prior authorization from Sweden. 
The Bank shall, as administrator on behalf of Sweden, enter into a grant agreement (the “Grant 
Agreement”) with the Recipient regarding the provision of the Contribution funds to the 
Page  2
-
-
2
Recipient for such purposes. Sweden authorizes the Bank to use the Contribution funds to pay the 
Recipient for eligible expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) under and in 
accordance with the Grant Agreement.  The Bank shall furnish a copy of the Grant Agreement to 
Sweden. 
 
Sweden shall deposit the Contribution as a grant with the Bank, upon request from the Bank, in 
IBRD’s Cash Account “T” (Account No. IBRDSEK2) maintained with Sveriges Riksbank 
Stockholm in accordance with the following schedule: 
 
-
upon countersignature by the Bank of 
 
SEK 6,000,000 
 
this Administration Agreement   
 
-
by April 30, 2004 
 
 
 
SEK 7,000,000 
 
In order to assist in the defrayment of the costs of administration incurred by the Bank 
under this Administration Agreement, the Bank may deduct from the Sweden Income Account 
and retain for the Bank’s own account an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the amounts 
deposited by Sweden with the Bank for the TF052718. 
 
It is expected that the Contribution funds will be fully utilized in accordance with the 
provisions of this Administration Agreement by December 31, 2004. The Bank shall only 
disburse the Contribution funds for the purposes of this Administration Agreement after such date 
upon the approval of Sweden. 
 
If, at any time, either party determines that the purposes of this Administration 
Agreement can no longer be effectively or appropriately carried out or if the Agreement is 
terminated, this Administration Agreement may be terminated at the initiative of either party by 
giving the other party not less than three (3) months’ prior written notice to such effect.  Upon 
termination of this Administration Agreement, and unless the parties hereto otherwise agree, any 
Grant Agreement entered into by the Bank, as administrator on behalf of Sweden, shall also 
terminate at such time, and any funds or other property of Sweden held hereunder by the Bank 
shall be credited to the trust fund account specified in Section 4.1 (k) of the Agreement, and the 
Bank’s administration shall then be considered terminated. 
 
The officials and offices responsible for coordination of all matters related to this 
Administration Agreement are: 
 
For 
Sweden: 
     For 
the 
Bank: 
 
Ms. Annlouise Olofsson  
 
 
 
Mr. Itzhak Goldberg 
Senior Advisor Private Sector Development 
 
Lead Specialist 
Department 
for 
Europe 
 
    ECSPF 
Swedish International Development Agency 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
Sida Europe/ SEE 
 
 
 
 
Bulevar Kralja Aleksandra 86 
SE 105 25 Stockholm 
 
 
 
 
11000 Belgrade 
Sweden 
      Serbia 
and 
Montenegro 
Tel. 46 8 698 5133 
 
 
 
 
Tel. 381 11 3023 700 
 
The Bank may disclose this Administration Agreement and information on the Trust Fund under 
this Agreement in accordance with the Bank’s policy on disclosure of information. 
Page  3
-
-
3
I
would like to propose that this Administration Agreement shall, upon your confirmation in the 
manner indicated below, constitute an agreement between Sweden and the Bank. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
By:   /s/ Staffan Herrstrom 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name:  
Staffan Herrström 
 
Title:  
Head of Department for Europe 
 
Swedish International  
 
Development Cooperation Agency 
 
Confirmed and agreed 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development/ International  
Development Association 
 
By: /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos 
Title:   Country Director and Regional Coordinator 
 
for Southeast Europe 
 
Europe and Central Asia Region 
 
Date: 12/4/2003 
 
Page  4
-
-
4
ANNEX 
 
Serbia Business Registration Reform 
 
The Government of Serbia has launched a comprehensive reform of the Republic’s business 
registration system as described in the project document with the detailed budget prepared by the 
authorities. The Project Document is attached to the Annex of Administration Agreement. 
Technical assistance requires funding support on a short term basis to cover costs related to: 
 
·
hardware costs; 
·
software costs; 
·
initial staffing costs; 
·
training; 
·
costs of setting up Customer Service Centers (including office furnishings); 
·
publicity and information campaign costs; and 
·
updating existing databases. 
 
Objectives, Activities and Expected Results of the Contribution 
 
The objective of the Contribution is to enable quick, cheap and easy business registration, thereby 
reducing costs and improving the trust of the business community, both foreign and local, in the 
effectiveness of the system.  In line with the objective of the Contribution, an independent 
administrative agency will be established to administer new business registers in lieu of an old 
system managed through commercial courts and municipalities. The new registration system is 
expected to have a positive impact on various stakeholders: on one hand, it will be made more 
user-friendly for business people in Serbia by simplifying the process and clearly spelling out the 
requirements necessary to register a business; on the other hand, the unified business register, 
where each business will be assigned a unique identifying number, will be of a great benefit to the 
government in monitoring the enterprise sector.  
 
Specifically, the Contribution is expected to: 
 
·
enable easier and faster registration; 
·
improve market access for traditionally under-represented groups; 
·
reduce the gray market; 
·
provide better business statistics and information for policy makers. 
 
Timeline of the activities financed by the Contribution:    
 
The activities are expected to have following timeline:  
 
·
legal set up of the Serbia Business Registration Agency immediately after Parliamentary 
approval of the Law on Business Registration and the Law on the Agency for Business 
Registers; 
 
·
IT hardware and software in place by February 28, 2004;  
 
·
training begins for new staff  by January 31, 2004; 
 
Page  5
-
-
5
·
during the year 2004, update and correct registry information for the existing 350,000 
companies and entrepreneurs; and  
 
·
new business registration begins operation for companies by May 31, 2004. 
 
The timeline for implementation of the above activities may alter depending on the timing of the 
Law on Business Registration and the Law on the Agency for Business Registers adoption in the 
Parliament. 
 
Reporting 
 
The Bank shall prepare and furnish Sida (Belgrade and Stockholm offices) with an Inception 
Report, a Progress Report and a Final Report.  The timeline for reports submission will be as 
follows: 
 
·
Inception Report 
–
2
months after launching the activities financed by the Contribution; 
·
Progress Report – 9 months into the implementation of activities; and 
·
Final Report – upon termination of donor funding and completion of the Bank follow-up 
mission. 
 
The Inception and Progress Reports will include revised revenue model for the SBRA. The Bank 
will seek to provide Sida with additional information on the progress of activities, if requested by 
Sida, within a reasonable time frame.  
 
The Bank has committed to a follow-up mission that will take place at the end of 2004. The 
Mission will specifically examine the progress of the project and evaluate the long-term 
sustainability of the new registration system, with particular attention to financial sustainability. 
 
