Document of                  FI E   COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3096-EGT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
August 8, 1980
Education & Manpower Development Division
Europe, Middle East & North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)                               US$1.43
1 US Dollar                                         LE 0.70
Weights and Measures
1 hectare                                            2.38 feddans
1 feddan                                             1.04 acres
1 acre                                               0.96 feddans
1 square kilometer                                238.00 feddans
Fiscal Year
January 1      -      December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
GLOSSARY
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR .....................................                1
Socio-Economic Background.                                                1
Development and Reform of the Education and Training
System  ..
Educational Issues and Manpower Requirements .              .             3
Educational Finance..                                                    8
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education           .       .               9
II. THE PROJECT .10
Introduction    ..10
Objectives and Scope    ..11
Vocational Training Centers - Industrial Trades (MOIMR)                 13
Industrial Management Training (MOIMR)          .       .13
Multi-purpose and Management Training Centers (MOA)                      14
National Poultry Training Center (MOA)           .       .15
National Veterinary Extension Training Center (MOA)                      15
Farm Mechanization Training Centers (MOA)    .            .15
Mobile Training Units (MOA)    ..16
Agricultural Information Reproduction Center (MOA)                       16
Handicraft Skills Training (MOSA)    .               .16
The University of Assiut    ..17
Improvement of University Instruction -
Cairo University .18
Technical Assistance .20
III.  PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENT..               21
Cost of the Project    ..21
Project Financing    ..23
Recurrent Costs    ..24
Implementation    ..24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be uswed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS  .***................................    26
Benefits         ...................................... .........    26
Risks ............... . .....................................    27
Key Implementation Dates .................................    27
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ........... .........    28
ANNEXES
1.  CHARTS, TABLES AND SCHEDULES
Chart 1    Structure of the Education System                  29
Chart 2    Educational Pyramid                                30
Tables 1.1  Comparative Education Indicators                  31
1.2 Unit Capital Costs and Areas Per Student           33
1.3 Contingency Allowances                             34
1.4 Types and Locations of Institutions                35
Schedules 1.1  Schedule for Technical Assistance                 36 - 43
1.2  Implementation Schedules                          44 - 46
1.3 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                47
2.  RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE         48
A. Reports and Studies Relating to Education
B.  Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
C.  Selected Working Papers of the Project
MAP



EGYPT
BASIC DATA (1978) _/
Total Population                                   39.9 million
Current Rate of Population Growth                  2.2% p.a.
Per Capita GNP                                     US$ 390
Literacy Rate (population over 10 yrs.
of age) (1976)                      44%
Primary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age-Group 6-11         (1978)      Male - 86%
Female - 59%
Total - 73% 2/
Preparatory School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 12-14        (1978)      Male - 70%
Female - 42%
Total - 57% 2
Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 15-17        (1978)      Male - 45%
Female - 28% 2/
Total - 37% -
Higher Education Enrollment as a
Percentage of Age Group 18-22        (1978)      Male - 21%
Female -  9%
Total - 15%
Central Government Expenditures on                 13.0% recurrent
Education as a Percentage of Total                3.4% capital
Government Expenditures                           8.8% total
Central Government Expenditures on
Education as a Percentage of GDP                  5.5%
1/ See Annex 1, Table 1.1 for comparative educational data
2/ Gross enrollment rates



I



GLOSSARY
MOA:              Ministry of Agriculture
MOE:              Ministry of Education
MOD4R:            Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
MOP:              Ministry of Planning
MORNC:            Ministry of Reconstruction and New  Communities
MOSA:             Ministry of Social Affairs
MOMVT:            Ministry of Manpower and Vocational Training
CAPMAS:           Central Agency for Public Mobilization and Statistics



I



I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Since 1974 Egypt has been pursuing a policy designed to accelerate
economic growth as a co-requisite to the modernization of Egyptian society.
To realize the country's promising growth potential, the government initiated
a new economic strategy characterized by liberalization of a hitherto rigidly
centralized economy. This policy derives from President Sadat's 1974 October
Paper in which the following basic objectives were elaborated: (a) decentrali-
zation of decision-making in state owned enterprises; (b) more scope to the
private sector; (c) provision of incentives to stimulate and encourage private
and foreign investments; and (d) expanding economic cooperation with Arab and
Western countries. The 1980-84 Plan reconfirms these objectives as Egypt
reorders its priorities in its transition from a war economy to a development
oriented peace economy. To facilitate progress toward attaining these objec-
tives, the government places a high priority on improving the quality and
quantity of its efforts in basic education and in vocational and technical
training, and is increasing its investment in education from 3.4% of total
investments in the 1978-82 Plan to 5% in the 1980-84 Plan.
1.02      The Plan envisages a total investment by Government and the private
sector of LE 20.0 billion (US$28.6 billion at market rates). Over half of
this investment is directed to industry, transport, and communications,
housing and infrastructure. Expansions and improvements in irrigation, land
reclamation, mechanization, crop rotation and land reforms are proposed to
enhance the development of agriculture, increasing its share of investment
from 8.6% in the 1978-82 Plan to 18% in the 1980-84 Plan. Investment in the
productive sectors and infrastructure is expected to stimulate related activi-
ties such as construction, food processing, mechanical industries, electronics,
shipbuilding and maintenance. The Plan's targets for sectoral growth and
investment imply the need for a major expansion in the supply of suitably-
trained industrial, construction and agricultural managers; commercial,
agricultural and industrial technicians; better trained farmers; and skilled
and semi-skilled workers (para 1.14).
Development and Reform of the Education and Training System
1.03      National economic and social development policies and programs are
dependent upon the continuing efforts of the formal and non-formal education
and training system in improving the quality and quantity of appropriately
trained manpower to meet the rapidly evolving needs of the economy at both
local and national levels. Accordingly, the educational development strategy
is directed toward meeting these needs, with emphasis on:
(a) Universal enrollment of the 6-14 age-group in a nine-year
compulsory cycle incorporating both the current primary and
preparatory levels (grades 1-9), with upgrading and improve-
ments in quality and quantity of basic education teachers



-2-
through in-service and pre-service training programs. The
government now realizes that its target of 1985 for achieving
such universal enrollment is unrealistic (para 1.08).
(b) Improvements in quality and relevance of education in prepara-
tory and general secondary schools through provision of
upgraded science instruction, practical pre-vocational
studies for all students to enable more informed choices
concerning secondary and post-secondary education/training
and future employment and to develop healthier work attitudes.
Teacher education programs are being re-oriented and reorganized
accordingly.
(c) Re-orienting the formal education and training system to
meet manpower needs better through increasing technical
secondary enrollments while further slowing the increases in
general secondary enrollments, but without as yet firm
targets in this respect; and by expanding agricultural and
industrial technician enrollments.
(d) Expanding and improving the skilled and semi-skilled labor
force by increasing the quantity and quality of the annual
outputs of industrial, construction, and handicrafts skills
training centers to meet the serious shortage of such workers.
(e) Upgrading of the agricultural extension services and expanding
and improving farmer training; and
(f) Improving university instruction by reducing overcrowding in
certain faculties and improving facilities, equipment and
teacher capabilities.
1.04      The Government also intends to progressively reduce the high adult
illiteracy level, which amounted to about 56% of those over 10 years in 1978.
Enrollments in adult literacy programs have increased sharply since 1970, with
a trebling of enrollments to about 320,000 in 1978, excluding the considerable
numbers of the armed forces enrolled in literacy classes, on which data is not
available. Training extends over about nine months to take adults to the
standard of the fourth grade for which there is a success rate of about 40%.
Currently, there are about 13,000 literacy classes operating and the Adult
Education Department of the MOE plans to add about 1,400 classes annually.
It is intended that, in the future, the training should be provided, to the
extent feasible, through functional literacy programs linked with skill
training as equipped centers are made available for this purpose. Seven
thousand centers are proposed; four thousand for men and three thousand for
women. A particularly important development supported under the first two and
proposed third IDA-assisted projects has been the linking of literacy training
with vocational training in construction-trades training and handicraft
training centers. As these centers are being located in the poorer areas,
they are expected, over time, to alleviate significantly some of the restric-
tive characteristics of the poor, related to illiteracy and the lack of
employable skills.



- 3 -
1.05      The rapid growth in construction, manufacturing, electrical power,
petroleum production and refining, and the modernization of agricultural
production, along with the continuing emigration of skilled managers, has
resulted in a critical shortage of skilled managers at all levels. The
problem is being addressed at the top levels with bi-lateral assistance, and
at the middle levels of the construction and industrial secl;rs with assis-
tance under the second education project. The proposed project would expand
the on-going efforts in the industrial sector and initiate management training
in the agricultural sector.
1.06      Given the country's scarce resources, the development of the educa-
tion and training system since 1970 has been considerable. In response to
strong social demand and growing manpower needs, participation of the prepara-
tory (ages 12-14), secondary (ages 15-17), and higher education (ages 18-22)
age groups has grown remarkably from about 37%, 28% and   6% in 1970 to 57%,
38% and 15% respectively in 1978.  In the same period, however, participation
of the primary age group has grown only modestly from about 71% to 73%.  The
above figures relate to current UN population data and preliminary indications
are that they may require revision when the analysis currently underway of the
1976 census figures is completed.  Female participation rates at 39%, 37%,
36% and 30%, respectively compares relatively well with those of other coun-
tries in the region but still leave room for improvement. Secondary education
is commendably diversified, with 51% of enrollment being technical and
4% in primary teacher training. Moreover, math and science students comprise
65% of general secondary enrollments. Enrollments in technician training
(grades 10-14 and 13-14), with Bank support, have increased more than three
times from a base of 16,000 in 1970-71. Enrollments in the vocational training
programs of the Ministries of Industry, Social Affairs, and Reconstruction in
1978-79 were about 16,000, 7,900, and 10,500 respectively, with the first two
increasing slowly and the latter increasing very rapidly. Despite these
considerable achievements, many problems and deficiencies still remain in the
education and training system.
Educational Issues and Manpower Requirements
1.07      The principal issues to which government authorities must continue
to address themselves with increased intensity, relate to the areas of: (a)
quantitative and qualitative improvements, particularly in basic education;
(b) quality and relevance of the education and training system; (c) meeting
manpower needs; and (d) comprehensive educational planning to determine the
priorities and phasing of further development and articulation of the formal
and non-formal education training system.
(a) Basic Education
1.08      Primary Education:  Any conclusions with regard to overall growth in
primary education must be treated with some caution as enrollment returns from
regional offices are not based consistently on either gross or net (excluding
over-aged) enrollments. In addition, comparison with previous years does not
take into account the reduction in enrollments due to the reduction in repeti-
tion rates--which amounted in 1975 to 30% in grade 6--as a result of the



-4-
introduction of a modified form of automatic promotion. The latter measure is
being complemented by assistance under the second education project towards
improving the quality of primary teachers which should further assist in
eliminating undue repetition. Overall, however, progress has fallen short of
government targets so that it does not seem possible now to achieve the
objective of universal enrollment in a compulsory cycle of grades 1-9 by 1985.
Dissatisfied with the current enrollment rate in primary education, the
government is placing major emphasis on its expansion with assistance from
bilateral sources. Revised MOE planning aims at the enrollment of all six-
year old children by 1985, with the possibility that virtually full primary
enrollment could be achieved by 1990 and full enrollment for grades 1-9 by
1995. These targets seem feasible within the financial and implementation
capabilities of the country. However, particular efforts will be necessary to
address the socio-economic and cultural problems, especially in regard to
girls, affecting enrollments in rural areas. At present, rural enrollment
rates of 62% and 51% in primary and preparatory levels compare unfavorably
with the corresponding rates of 90% and 63% in urban areas. Moreover, the
quality of education is adversely affected, in many instances by overcrowded
classrooms, double shifts and otherwise inadequate facilities. While of
lessor urgency it will also be necessary over time to implement a program of
replacement of existing unsatisfactory school buildings.
1.09      Adult Literacy:  Despite the actions being taken, progress to date
in improving the adult literacy level has been modest, improving from about
40% in 1974 to 44% in 1978. While supporting the development of adult literacy
classes, the government has given greater priority within the limited resources
available to the generalization of basic education as a means of eliminating
adult illiteracy over time. In view of slow progress in achieving government
targets in primary education and the size of the target group to be addressed--
some 15-18 million adult illiterates of ages 11-50--effective implementation
of current plans for a major expansion of activities, directed specifically
at the target group, will be necessary to attain satisfactory adult literacy
levels by the 1990s. However, in view of the excessive costs which would be
involved in establishing a proposed network of literacy/skill training centers
specifically under the literacy program, such centers should only be pro-
vided where other existing or proposed education or training centers would
not be available for the purpose. In this respect, also, literacy programs
should be linked, to the maximum extent feasible, to agricultural extension
service/farmer training and to an expansion of the existing linkages in other
forms of employment-oriented skill training.
(b) Quality and Relevance of the Education and Training System
1.10      One of the most critical issues facing the educational authorities
is that of improving the quality of the system and to make it more relevant to
the country's social and economic development needs.
1.11      Preparatory and secondary curricula have been largely university
entry oriented and the schools are generally too poorly housed and equipped to
allow a very rapid introduction of the more practically-oriented curricula
currently under development. The quality of instruction has also been adversely



- 5 -
affected due to the frequently inadequate qualifications and training of math,
science and technical subject teachers. The latter is being addressed through
assistance from IDA and bilateral sources but the quality and output will
continue to suffer until resources are available to provide suitably equipped
workshops and laboratories. The progression rate from the preparatory to the
secondary lavel is a high 83% which would need to be reduced in order to
maintain secondary enrollments at a more modest rate of growth while enroll-
ments at the lower levels are being expanded. Proposals under consideration
for planning and budgetary purposes, are based on an annual growth in secondary
enrollments of 3.5% annually through 1990, as against 6.6% annually from 1970
to 1978, leading to a participation rate of 48% of the appropriate age-group
by 1990. This rate of growth is the limit to which the government should
aspire at this level, given budgetary limitations and the need to expedite
developments in basic education.  Enrollments in industrial and agricultural
programs are expected to increase from about 19% to about 26% of total
secondary enrollments, which is reasonable in terms of potential employment
prospects, while those enrolled in commercial courses will be reduced appro-
priately from about 32% to 30% of total enrollments.
1.12      Post-secondary technician training, except in Bank assisted insti-
tutions, is generally extremely poorly housed and equipped. Technician
enrollments in 1978-79 were only about 8% of the total public post-secondary
enrollments, of which industrial technician enrollments accounted for less
than 25% and provided only about 27% of average annual needs for industrial
technicians (para. 1.15). Because of lack of equipment, practical laboratory
training is severely inadequate and the quality of the graduates is very
low. However, the significant inputs from IDA (Education I and II) and
bilateral sources should result in rapid improvements in the quality of
industrial and agricultural technician graduates, and more than double the
annual outputs.
1.13      Public University Enrollment, already at a high 476,000 in 1978-79,
is expected to reach 530,000 in 1981-82, and average annual outputs are
projected at about 65,000 during the 1978-82 Plan period which is significantly
in excess of demand. The quality of the outputs is limited in many courses
because of severe overcrowding and inadequate accommodations and laboratory
equipment. This deficiency is especially critical in the faculties of agricul-
ture and engineering. The 1978-82 Plan proposes to limit enrollments in the
socially sensitive area of university education but, except for a few programs
in a few universities, there is little evidence thus far that effective
controls will be enforced through medium-term planning and resource constraints.
The allocation in 1978 of 47% of the total annual capital budget for education
necessary to support the excessive enrollments, as well as the continuation of
the policy of the government guaranteed employment of graduates irrespective
of need, clearly shows that university education is a critical issue to which
the government must address itself. The government is aware of the problem
and is studying possible changes in its plans for administrative reforms,
but without as yet any consideration being given, because of political sensi-
tivities, to enrollment limits by faculty. In practice, the numbers of
graduates relying on the government for employment has already started to
decline, both as a result of the long waiting times involved in obtaining



- 6 -
public sector employment and of increased opportunities in the private sector.
Furthermore, the over-concern with attainment of a university degree is
expected  to be significantly reduced  in the medium-term with  the  development
of potentially rewarding technician programs, and at the lower level by the
relatively high level of remuneration to be earned by skilled workers.
(c) Manpower Requirements
1.14         To  insure  sustained  growth  of the  economy in the  future, substantial
numbers of additional technical manpower will be needed. While the inadequacy
of basic data make accurate estimates of technical manpower requirements
difficult, the general dimensions of the shortfall are indicated in the
following table:
Estimated Manpower Requirements and Supply, 1976-87,
for Selected Categories of Occupations
(Excluding Migration)
Average
Annual
Requirement /1      Annual Output of Supply Institutions
Level of Type        1976-1987       1978                1987                          1987
All            of which Bank       Shortfall
Institutions   Education Projects
I     II      III
Technicians:
A. Industrial-
All Sectors      13,500          3,700      7,900      2,620   1,390    -          5,600
MOHE Instit.                     3,700      5,000      1,820      290    -
MOE Schools                        -        2,900        800   1,100    -
B. Comnercia-
All Sectors      11,400          8,800    11,600       1,300   1,400    -          +200
MOHE Instit.                     8,800    11,600       1,300   1,400    -         (surplus)
Skilled & Semi-Skilled:
A. Construction
Sector          29,700        10,500    18,300       6,000   6,540    -         11,400
MORNC Centers                    5,500    14,300       6,000   6,540
All Other                       5,000      4,000          -        -     -
B. Excluding Agric.
& Construc-
tion            71,700        34,890    44,400       2,325   3,920  3,765    27,300
-MOIMR Trng.
Centers                        5,570    14,000        2,325   3,230  2,110
-MOE Secondary
Tech. Schools                26,475    27,560           -        -     -
-MOSA Handicraft
Skills Trng.
Centers                       2,845      2,840          -       690  1,655
C. Agriculture      n.a.             n.a.      n.a.          -        -   6,500
/1   Based on an estimated 6.5% growth in GDP, 1976-87, annual establishment survey
(of ten or more workers) of MOMVT for 1976, modified slightly by the CAPMAS
establishment survey of 1971 and mission estimates.



- 7 -
1.15      The manpower data clearly show that the training of technicians,
skilled and semi-skilled workers remains a top priority. The annual supply of
industrial technicians, including certain types for agriculture, will fall far
short of the annual needs during the 1976-87 period, meeting only about 59% of
the average annual needs beginning in 1985 and would be significantly less
before then. During this period, and perhaps even over a much longer period,
the annual output of about 1,000 from the more practically oriented engineering
courses of the Technological University of Helwan and the agricultural engineer-
ing courses at Cairo University will continue to be utilized in filling the
technician needs of industry, as will a significant number of surplus annual
engineering graduates from other universities. Even then, a large portion of
annual industrial technician needs will continue to be met through on-the-job
training, an undesirable situation for this level of training and for such
large numbers. Before 1983, the shortfall of commercial technicians is less
critical, as most of it can be met through relatively short on-the-job training
of secondary commercial graduates and from the excess of university business
graduates, and by 1987 the supply and demand should be in balance.
1.16      The annual shortfall of skilled and semi-skilled industrial workers
is also critical. The annual outputs of training centers during the 1976-87
period, will fill about only 62% of the average annual demands (not including
replacements for migrating workers). Clearly much remains to be done in this
area of training with particular measures necessary to provide for the accele-
rated training of unskilled adults who have completed their military service
requirements and handicraft skills training for adult women and for male and
female school dropouts.
1.17      While reliable manpower needs data are not available for the agricul-
tural sector, the government estimates that the productive capabilities of
nearly all farmers, technicians and professional agriculturists engaged in the
sector require urgent upgrading if the modernization of agricultural production
is to keep pace with population growth. Formal farmer training has been
largely ad-hoc, with classes mainly limited to specialized training in mechani-
zation. Agricultural extension personnel are inadequately experienced in
modern agriculture, although, in an effort to alleviate the situation, one
year of pre-service practical training is provided to university agricultural
graduates recruited as extension agents. In awareness of their limitations in
the practical aspects of training, the faculties of agriculture, with bilateral
and multilateral assistance, are beginning to improve the quality of basic and
applied laboratory training, teacher qualifications and experience, and to
reduce overcrowding in laboratories. The proposed project would assist in
significantly expanding and/or improving training for farmers, agricultural
technicians, extension personnel and university agricultural instruction.
1.18      Within the construction industry, the current shortfall results in
critical delays in construction and, even during the latter half of the period
1976-87, a substantial shortfall of skilled and semi-skilled workers will
still remain if the output is not increased. Until such time as large numbers
of additional training places are available, the planned increase in length of
training programs from the current four months to ten months and the correspond-
ing increase in the skill level of the output will have to be postponed. In



addition temporary programs outside the Ministry of Reconstruction and New
Communities, which were planned to be phased out during this period, will need
to remain operational.
1.19      The Ministry of Manpower and Vocational Training is now working on a
major manpower study to be completed in the latter part of 1980, the results
of which will be used by the Ministry of Planning in modification of the
1980-84 Development Plan. The study is based on data from the 1976 census, as
well as other partial surveys from MOMVT, CAPMAS, and other ministries, and
should provide more accurate estimates of manpower needs than currently
available. Additionally, the ongoing Bank study of migration in the Middle
East, due for completion in 1980 is expected to indicate the order of magni-
tude of this additional demand on Egypt's trained manpower.
(d) Educational Planning and Coordination
1.20      Continuing attention needs to be given to planning and programming,
and to establishing and maintaining procedures to assure that efforts by vari-
ous ministries involved in education and training will be closely coordinated.
Although improving, there is still insufficient coordination bet.ween the
Ministries of Education and Higher Education in the training of technicians;
the Ministries of Social Affairs and Industry in the training of skilled and
semi-skilled workers; and virtually no overall coordination of university
admission policies. The financial implications of improved planning and
coordination are considerable and could result in significant savings in
regard to capital and recurrent costs of both existing and planned programs.
1.21      In awareness of the above stated needs, the second education project
includes support to extend the capability of the MOE in carrying out realistic
planning studies. In addition, supported by the first and second Bank-assisted
education projects, the government has created an interministerial committee
to facilitate the desired coordination of programming and the translation of
manpower data into appropriate education and training targets. Furthermore,
to help assure more appropriate coordination between the Ministries of Educa-
tion and Higher Education, both of which are under the same minister, a First
Undersecretary of State for Technical Education has been named to coordinate
all technician training for both ministries.
Educational Finance
1.22      Since 1974, public recurrent expenditures on education have remained
stabilized at about 13% of total public recurrent expenditures and increased
by 9.3% per year in real terms, which was only 0.3% less than the real increase
in total government recurrent expenditures. Except for 1976 and 1977, the
percent of total public capital expenditures allocated to education has
remained relatively stable at about 3.4% since 1974. The percent of total
central government expenditures on education (capital and recurrent) amounted
to a relatively modest 8.8% in 1978. On the other hand, the proportion of
total public expenditures allocated to education has increased from 5.0% of
GDP in 1974 to 5.5% of GDP in 1978, due to the rapid increase in public
expenditure during this period, indicating that the educational resource
ceiling, in terms of percentage of GDP, is being approached.



- 9 -
1.23      Based on an anticipated growth of GDP at an annual 6.5%, and assuming
education expenditures are maintained at about their current level of 8.8% of
total expenditures and 5-5.5% of GDP through 1991, it should be possible
for the government to achieve the projected growth in the proposed compulsory
cycle (grades 1-9) while continuing its efforts to develop technical education/
vocational training and providing modest qualitative and operational improve-
ments at all education levels. For this purpose, average annual capital
expenditures of about US$327 million would be required from 1978 to 1991,
compared with the planned 1980-84 annual average of US$286 million (1978
prices), and annual recurrent expenditures would need to increase at a total
of about 5.2% in real terms between 1978 and 1991. This level of public
investment in education is feasible, provided financing is available to
meet the foreign exchange element of such investment, for which Egypt will
undoubtedly continue to require substantial external aid.
1.24      Achievement of the education development targets, within the level
of education expenditures indicated above is predicated on the assumption that
university enrollments will be stabilized at about their current level. Even
on this basis the share of higher education in the recurrent budget is not
expected to change significantly and may in fact increase slightly from its
present 26%--as against 31% and 35% at primary and secondary levels--in view
of the need for major improvemnts in the quality of higher education and
the development of post-secondary technician training. Currently, the cost of
the high level of enrollments is kept within reasonable limits as a result of
unduly low unit costs but with correspondingly poor quality of instruction.
On the other hand, the inflated capital investment in higher education--which
reached 47% of the total capital education budget for universities and 17%
for other higher education institutions in 1978--is expected to be reduced
progressively to 33% of the capital budget by 1991.
Bank Strategy and Lending for Education
1.25      Attainment of the economic and social development objectives
of Egypt is becoming increasingly dependent upon the formal and non-formal
education and training system to improve the general educational level
of the people, and to provide the numbers of trained personnel required
to meet the needs of medium and long term development. Government education
and training policies and objectives have increasingly been directed toward
these ends, especially since 1970 (paras 1.03 and 1.04).
1.26      Bank lending strategy in the education sector has been consistent
with these objectives and was initiated with a credit for US$25 million which
was approved in March 1977. The project (Credit 681-EGT) was designed to
(i) expand, diversify and upgrade the training of technicians, skilled and
semi-skilled workers; (ii) introduce comprehensive preparatory and secondary
schooling, on a pilot basis, to incorporate more instruction in practical
courses; (iii) increase and upgrade the training of technical teachers and
workshop instructors; and (iv) improve education and manpower planning. With
very minor exceptions implementation progress has been excellent.  In Decetber
1978, a US$40 million IDA Credit (Credit 868-EGT) was made for a second



- 10 -
education project, complemented by parallel financing of US$9.9 million from
other multilateral and bilateral sources. The project further expanded
efforts in the above areas, and, additionally, assisted in (i) upgrading the
training of primary teachers, secondary math and science teachers and workers
for the handicraft industries; (ii) improving educational and manpower
research and planning; (iii) increasing and upgrading management training in
the industrial and construction sectors; and (iv) improving and expanding
population education in the public schools. These first two education projects,
when fully operational, will make a significant contribution to improving the
economic well-being of low income groups. About 45% and 38% of the proceeds of
the respective Credits are allocated to skills training and primary teacher
training programs directly related to low income groups.
1.27      With public and private investments for the modernization and expan-
sion of the agricultural, industrial, commercial and social sectors projected
to grow at a fairly rapid rate (para. 1.02), the increasing demands for
greater numbers and better qualified skilled workers, technicians, managers
and more efficient farmers will be large (para. 1.14). In view of this, the
proposed project will continue the emphasis upon training in these areas,
while also addressing deficiencies in secondary math and science teacher
training and improving the teaching skills of university staff. In the process
major emphasis would be placed on programs directed at low income rural and
urban groups with about 60% of the Credit amount allocated to such programs.
1.28      Responding to the government's request for urgently needed assistance
to a wide variety of training ministries, previous IDA-assisted projects and
the proposed project are multifaceted, each providing assistance on a broad
front to a number of ministries and agencies. Priorities for future lending
will be determined through an ongoing dialogue with the government. Such
dialogue will focus on determining appropriate IDA assistance in the areas of:
(i) basic education, in particular primary education and adult literacy; (ii)
handicraft, construction trades and industrial trades training in the poorer
regions with linked literacy training; (iii) farmer training and the extension
service, with emphasis on its expansion to include the training of women and
similarly linked to literacy training; (iv) primary teacher training, and math
and science teacher training; (v) secondary technical and agricultural programs
and technician training; and (vi) management training in all sectors.
II. THE PROJECT
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Egyptian government through
preinvestment studies included in the second education project, a Bank
reconnaissance/identification mission in January 1979, an identification mis-
sion of June 1979 and a preparation mission in September 1979. The project



- 11 -
was appraised by Messrs. W. Hobbs (technical educator, mission leader), C.
Germanacos (educational planner, consultant), A. El-Tobgy (architect), J.
Crosnier (agricultural educator) and Ms. A. MacNamara (economist).
Objectives and Scope
2.02      The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(i) expand, diversify, and upgrade the training of skilled and semi-
skilled workers to meet urgent manpower needs;
(ii)  increase and upgrade training of secondary math and science teachers;
(iii) increase and/or upgrade farmer training and the training of staff
for the agricultural cooperatives and extension services;
(iv)  increase and upgrade management training in the industrial and
agricultural sectors;
(v) expand education and training opportunities for the urban poor;
(vi)  upgrade university agricultural and health sciences instruction; and
(vii) promote university in-service staff development.



- 12 -
2.03      The project would comprise the following components:
Ministry and Item                                  Capacity         Annual Output
Grades   Total       New     Total      New
MOIMR
Construction, furniture, equipment
and related technical assistance:
5 Vocational Training Centers          >9     3,500      3,500    1,080    1,080
6 Mobile Training Units             Adult       120        120      480       480
2 Industrial Management
Training Centers                  Adult       320        320    1,200    1,200
Equipment and Technical Assistance:
11 Vocational Training Centers          >9     3,820       1,800   1,200       550
MOA
Construction, furniture, equipment
and related technical assistance:
3 Multi-purpose & Management        Adult       240         240   5,000    5,000
Training Centers
1 Farmer Training Center-Poultry   Adult         50          50     750       750
8 Mobile Farmer Training Units      Adult       160         160   1,600    1,600
Equipment and Technical Assistance:
1 National Veterinary Extension
Training Center                    Adult       40           -     150       150
2 Farm Mechanization
Training Centers                  Adult       250           -   1,000    1,000
1 Information Reproduction Center           -         -       -       -         -
MOSA
Equipment and Technical Assistance:
15 Handicraft Skills Training        Ungraded  2,250           -     880
Centers
5 Skills Training Centers for
Handicapped                      Ungraded  2,200            -     725
1 Instructor Training Center -
Women                                >9       100                  50
UNIVERSITY OF ASSIUT
Equipment and Technical Assistance:
Secondary Teacher Training -
Math and Science                   13-18   .3,600           -     750
UNIVERSITY OF CAIRO
Equipment and Technical Assistance:
In-Service Staff Development          -          -           -   1,000    1,000
Health Sciences Learning
Resource Center                      -          -     -             - 
Faculty of Agriculture              13-18    5,000           -      600



- 13 -
Vocational Training Centers - Industrial Trades (MOIMR)
2.04      To assist in improving the quality and quantity of training to meet
the urgent needs for skilled industrial workers, the project would provide
financing of construction, furniture and equipment for five new centers and
six mobile training units, replacement of old equipment for 11 existing centers
and technical assistance for all of them.
2.05      The 16 centers would have combined full-time equivalent (FTE) enroll-
ments of 7,320 and an annual output of about 2,280 skilled and semi-skilled
craftsmen in the automotive, welding, electrical, air conditioning and refrig-
eration, plumbing, sheet metal, metal machining, pipe fitting, and mechanical
fitting trades. Evening classes would provide for upgrading training for
existing workers as requested by local industry. Enrollments are open to
students who have completed preparatory school and are over 15 years of age
and to selected adults with military or other relevant work experience.
Regular day student training consists of one year of full-time formal training
with equal time allotted to theory and practice, followed by on-the-job
training, except for tool and die making programs, in selected local industries
with additional technical theory instruction for two days and one day per week
in the second and third years respectively. These training centers and the
mobile units (para 2.06) would be located in industrial areas and would cater
to the needs of about 7,800 trainees annually, almost all of them from low
income families.
2.06      The mobile training units with annual outputs of about 480 would pro-
vide short-term upgrading training for employed workers and for concentrated
training at the semi-skilled level for unemployed adults, or for those desiring
retraining, in areas where permanent training facilities do not exist.
2.07      The curricula, course syllabi and equipment lists are in the process
of being adapted from those of the same kinds of training centers in the first
and second projects. However, about 21 man-months of expert assistance would
be provided to assist in the development of the new programs of training being
added. The additional 211 instructors required for the five new centers and
the mobile units would be selected from among the 800 who will have graduated,
by the scheduled 1984 opening of the proposed centers, from the instructor
training center financed under the first education project, and about 40
directors and head instructors would intern abroad in similar programs for a
total of about 104 man-months.
Industrial Management Training (MOIMR)
2.08      One of the more critical manpower training needs identified by the
government is that of industrial management training.  In support of this high
priority need the project would provide financing for construction, furniture,
equipment and technical assistance for two management training centers. These
training centers would provide modern planning and management training for about
1,200 trainees per year from among the estimated 36,000 supervisory and manage-
ment personnel of industrial and commercial companies in the Cairo and Delta



- 14 -
areas and would complement the management training programs for the Suez Canal
and Red Sea areas assisted under the Second Education Project and programs
operated by two universities at top management levels.
2.09      Program length would generally vary from one to four weeks (each
trainee participating in several programs annually) according to individual
group needs, and would be planned and conducted by a core of trained and
experienced local staff assisted by 35 man-months of expatriate specialists.
Expertise and curricula developed for the management training program under
the second education project would be utilized to the extent feasible. Prior
to the October 1984 opening date, the 20 key staff members would have interned
for a total of 100 man-months in similar management training programs abroad.
Multi-purpose and Management Training Centers (MOA)
2.10      In response to the high priority the government currently places on
improving the productive capacity of the agricultural sector, and in recogni-
tion of the highly important and expanded role of farmer training and the
agricultural extension services, the project would finance construction,
furniture, equipment and technical assistance for three multipurpose farmer
training and agricultural management training centers. These centers with a
total capacity of 240 places and boarding accommodations for 120 would be
located in the Delta, the Upper Nile and Canal Zone - Red Sea Areas and would
provide annual upgrading training in crop and livestock production, marketing,
mechanization, irrigation and drainage, sector planning, extension methodology,
and others for about 1,200 public and private farm and agricultural coopera-
tives managers, 600 agricultural extension workers and about 3,200 farmers.
These programs would initiate formal management training for the agricultural
sector. Courses would range in length from one day to five weeks. Pre-
ventative maintenance of farm tractors and equipment would be the major area
of emphasis in the farmer training classes having about 960 trainees annually.
These classes and those in the two farm mechanization centers (para 2.15)
would provide vital support to the IDA assisted mechanization project
(Credit 830-EGT).
2.11      The centers would be located on existing ministry of agriculture
farms and suitable construction sites are identified and available. Accommoda-
tions would include facilities for small and large group classes and meetings,
workshops, laboratories, field instruction and boarding facilities. Each of
the training centers would be assigned two of the mobile training units (para
2.16). The 37 full-time staff members of the three centers would be selected
from among experienced agricultural managers and extension personnel currently
employed by the ministry and key staff would intern abroad for a total of
about 53 man-months in similar programs for periods of 1 to 3 months. The
curricula and training programs, specific to each region, would be prepared
with the help of about 22 man-months of expert assistance over a period of
about three years. Equipment lists are being prepared by expatriate and
local consultants. They are about 50% completed and will be completed by the
end of August 1980.



- 15 -
National Poultry Training Center (MOA)
2.12      To assist in specialized training for the estimated 750 technicians
and skilled workers required annually for the 200 poultry cooperatives and
about 1,200 privately owned poultry farms employing about 7,000 workers,
technicians and managers, the project would finance construction, furniture,
equipment and technical assistance for a poultry training center. The center
would be located on an available site adjacent to the 28 large government
poultry farms, hatcheries and poultry processing plants near Cairo. These
production facilities would be utilized for the practical training experi-
ences required to complement theoretical studies. The center would have a
capacity of 50 trainees and would include classrooms, laboratories and
boarding facilities.
2.13      The center would be operated by the public sector National Poultry
Production Company of the Ministry of Agriculture. Instruction would largely
consist of short intensive courses of one to four weeks length in poultry
production, sanitation and disease control, poultry farm management and
processing catering to the level required by individual groups. The instruc-
tional staff of 18 would be recruited from among the experienced staff of the
National Poultry Company and they would intern abroad for a total of about 30
man-months in similar training centers. The curriculum and course syllabi
would be developed with the assistance of about 15 man-months of short-term
experts.
National Veterinary Extension Training Center (MOA)
2.14      The project would finance specialized equipment and technical
assistance to help upgrade the level of instruction in this in-service training
center. The center with a capacity of 40 trainees is located in the approximate
center of the Delta Region, where most of the livestock are raised, and
provides short up-grading training courses annually for about 150 (of the
estimated 4,200 total) practicing veterinarians in improved animal production
and health care, nutrition, breeding, artificial insemination and extension
methodology. Each trainee would participate in several of the 1-12 week
courses each year. The existing facilities are suitable, the instructional
staff is competent, and the curriculum is generally appropriate. However,
about 8 man-months of expert assistance would be provided to help upgrade the
curriculum and course syllabi to reflect the increased capability in practical
applications made possible by the better equipped instructional facilities and
an ambulatory clinic for field instruction financed under the project.
Additionally, about 26 man-months of fellowship training abroad would be
provided for 13 selected staff members.
Farm Mechanization Training Centers (MOA)
2.15      In support of the government's program of mechanization of agricul-
tural production and in addition to the farm mechanization training program in
the three multipurpose training centers, the project would finance the replace-
ment of obsolete and unsuitable instructional equipment and the provision of
technical assistance for two existing farm mechanization training centers
located in the Delta. The centers have suitable accommodations for a combined



- 16 -
total of 250 trainees and an annual output of about 1,000 from programs for
the preventive maintenance of tractors and machinery. The programs, ranging
in length from one to three months would vary according to individual group
needs and local environment and would be up-graded by a core of trained and
experienced local staff assisted by 80 man-months of expatriate experts.
About 48 man-months of short-term internships abroad would be provided for
nine key instructors. Satisfactory equipment lists have been prepared by an
expatriate consultant and have been reviewed by the Association.
Mobile Training Units (MOA)
2.16      Due to the widely dispersed nature of agricultural activity, encom-
passing over 4,000 agricultural communities, with the consequent difficulty in
assembling trainees in central training centers and the great variety of train-
ing needs, the project would assist the Ministry of Agriculture in developing
a mobile farmer training system on a pilot basis.  The project would finance
the purchase and equipping of eight specially designed mobile training units,
with combined capacities for 160 trainees,to provide instruction in preventive
maintenance and repair of farm tractors and machinery, crop and animal produc-
tion, and animal health care for an estimated 1,600 farmers (including women)
annually. The mobile units would be attached to the multipurpose, veterinary
and poultry training centers and courses would generally range in length from
1 to 2 weeks. Eighteen man-months of fellowships and about three man-months
of expert assistance would be provided to develop the training programs.
Agricultural Information Reproduction Center (MOA)
2.17      As a means of correcting the seriously inadequate system of prepara-
tion of agricultural educational materials, the project would finance printing
and audio-visual equipment and about 9 man-months of fellowship training and 4
man-months of expert assistance to establish an agricultural information
reproduction center for the preparation and printing of educational materials.
These materials would be prepared by ministry subject-matter specialists and
illustrators and would provide vital support to the MOA training centers, agri-
cultural cooperatives and the agricultural extension service. Distribu-
tion would be through the existing extension system to an estimated 40,000
farmers a year, of which the great majority would be low income farmers.
Suitable accommodations have been acquired adjacent to the Agricultural
Training Board which would operate the center.
Handicraft Skills Training (MOSA)
2.18      To upgrade the quality of handicraft skills training for out-of-
school boys and girls of ages 12-16 who would not otherwise have access to
such training and to prepare them for gainful employment, the project would
provide financing of replacement and additional equipment and technical
assistance for 15 skills training centers, five skills training centers for
the handicapped and one instructor training center for women. The centers are
operated by the Ministry of Social Affairs with the cooperation of the local
governorates and are serving the poorer segments of the urban population.



- 17 -
2.19      The skills centers would have a maximum total enrollment of 4,500
(50% girls) in 1-2 year training programs according to individual trainee
ability and needs. The length of training in the programs for the handicapped
is more variable. Skills training outputs would total about 1,600 annually
from the specializations of furniture making, general and art metal work,
plumbing, carpet making, decorative leather works, weaving, knitting, sewing
and ceramics, but could vary slightly as a result of differing local needs.
Their employment record is reported to be quite good. The instructor training
center would have an enrollment capacity of about 100 full-time instructor
trainees, and in-service training courses of varying lengths for experienced
instructors in groups of 12. Annual outputs of new instructors would be about
50.
2.20      The craftsmanship skills of instructors, the course syllabi and
job worksheets will be upgraded with about 16 man-months of assistance by
specialists and artisans from handicraft skills training centers and indus-
tries abroad and from among the better skilled craftsmen in local industries.
The instructional and management capabilities of 51 key administrative and
instructional staff would be improved through the provision of about 147
man-months of short-term internships abroad.
The University of Assiut
2.21      The national educational policy for the improvement and expansion of
technological and scientific education requires that currently inadequate
university training programs for secondary-level math and science teachers be
upgraded, modernized and broadened.  In support of this the project would
assist the University of Assiut in improving its capability in the training of
math and science teachers at its Assiut and Sohag Campuses and would complement
a similar program at the Ain Shams University in Cairo included in the second
education project. The project would finance the replacement of obsolete and
of additional essential equipment and about 220 man-months of fellowship
training for 47 key staff members of the faculties of education, math and
science. The math and science programs are housed in well designed and
maintained facilities and have an enrollment capacity of about 3,600 (30%
women) and an annual output of about 750 or about 28% of the estimated total
annual needs for math and science teachers in 1985. Of equal importance, the
University of Assiut will be able to supply most of the average annual needs
for math and science teachers in upper Egypt where it has been traditionally
difficult to recruit qualified teachers graduating from the Cairo and Delta
universities.
2.22      The curricula are satisfactory, are regularly reviewed and the 25%
of the time devoted to pedagogical principles and practice provides a satis-
factory balance. The student:teacher ratio of about 15:1 for laboratory
instruction is appropriate and overall staffing is adequate in number; but
some of the junior teaching staff need to be upgraded and senior staff brought
more up-to-date through the fellowship training to be provided. To assure
that overcrowding of facilities will be avoided and an appropriate teacher-
student ratio maintained, the University has provided an assurance that the
agreed upon maximum of student density of 60 in the large and 40 in the
medium-size laboratories would be adhered to and that laboratories would
be staffed with adequate numbers of qualified laboratory teachers.



- 18 -
Improvement of University Instruction - Cairo University
2.23      As one of the most dynamic universities in Egypt, Cairo University
exercises a unique leadership role and pioneers a majority of the educational
innovations in the Egyptian higher education system. Among Egyptian univer-
sities, government and industry, it is especially recognized for its leader-
ship role in the fields of agriculture, health and engineering, as well as in
certain others. However, because of resource constraints during recent years
and the social pressures for expansion of university enrollment, its physical
accommodations and instructional quality have become inadequate and educational
equipment and teaching-learning methodology have not been kept up-to-date.
Hence, the project item would finance equipment, expert assistance and fellow-
ship training for: (a) a university-wide in-service staff development program;
(b) a learning resource center to support health instruction; and (c) improved
undergraduate instruction in the Faculty of Agriculture.
2.24      The staff development program, for which suitable accommodations and
operational budget are available, would have as its overall objective the
improvement of university-wide instructional skills through in-service courses
for all levels of Cairo University teachers. Specifically, it would provide
an opportunity for the improvement of teacher skills in: (a) analysis of
the socio-economic relevance of individual course content and presentation;
(b) identification of appropriate learning objectives; (c) development of
course syllabi and lesson plans; (d) the development and more frequent and
effective use of audio-visual media and instructional materials; (e) evalua-
tion and feed-back for instructional improvement; and (f) more effective and
efficient management of the instructional process. It can also serve as a
model for other Egyptian universities. The program would be supported by a
fully-equipped central media resource center and by satellite centers in the
faculties which will have basic audio-visual and reproduction processes
equipment. The center staff would also be made available .to assist individual
faculties of the university in special programs.
2.25      The staff development program would be organized and conducted by
the Department of In-Service Faculty Training and Curriculum Development of
the Institute of Educational Research and Studies which is to begin operation
in 1980. The Department itself, however, has been functioning for three years
now on an ad hoc basis. It is now to become a regular instrument of the
university reform policy. The departmental program would have a small core of
about four qualified full-time professors, a director, and some 15 educational
technologists, associates and instructors. These would be complemented by one
or more interested assistant professors from each faculty seconded to the
program for periods of one year. Initial staffing has already begun and
appropriate accommodations are available. The project would provide financing
of improved reference materials, audio-visual aids, reproduction equipment,
about 6 man-months of specialist assistance and 112 man-months of short-term
internship training abroad for 31 key staff.
2.26      The Health Sciences Learning Resource Center would serve the five
University of Cairo Health Education Faculties of Medicine, Pharmacy, Nursing,
Dentistry and Physio-therapy which have combined enrollments of about 14,000



- 19 -
and an instructional staff of about 2,000 full-time and part-time teachers.
It has eight teaching hospitals in Cairo which, for the most part, serve the
poor. The University has assigned an urgent priority to revitalizing and
modernizing its health education system. The learning resource center which
will occupy a new functionally designed building now nearing completion, has
been conceived as the major tool in improving the self-learning capability of
students, teachers and paraprofessional personnel. The center would provide
amphitheaters, classrooms, learning aids preparation centers, work areas,
equipment and materials for individual and group work by students and staff, a
closed circuit television studio and facilities, a medical library, and
printing, photographic and model-making facilities.
2.27      A portion of the television studio equipment has already been
donated by a bilateral donor. The project would provide financing for supple-
mentary closed circuit television equipment, library and reference books and
materials, audio-visual aids and printing, photographic and model-making
equipment and materials. Preliminary equipment lists have been reviewed and
will be finalized prior to negotiations. Technical assistance to be provided
would include about 26 man-months for specialists to help organize and initiate
the early operations of the center and 87 man-months of fellowships for
intensive training/retraining abroad of 40 key personnel, including maintenance
and equipment operation personnel. Valuable assistance in preparing the
management and operational functions has already been provided by American and
British universities. The center would have a full-time director and a core
of about 10 full-time professional staff, 22 technicians and necessary mainte-
nance, support and clerical services.
2.28      University authorities are committed to the full support of the
center and have approved its objective of supporting the health sciences
faculties in developing more appropriate curricula and improved educational
methodologies, in keeping informed on the latest developments in medical
services, and in encouraging innovative practices. The resources outputs
of the center will be made available to the medical faculties of other
Egyptian universities pending the development of similar capabilities of their
own. The Ministry of Health firmly supports the establishment of the center
and sees the center as a key element in current plans for the expansion and
improvement of clinical and field training for doctors and health professionals.
For example, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Learning Resource
Center will be involved with the development of educational materials for the
existing network of rural and district health centers focusing initially on
the 48 centers being constructed under IDA assisted projects. This proposed
outreach program would help bring health services into closer balance with the
health needs of both rural and urban communities.
2.29      The Cairo University Faculty of Agriculture is a major source for
the professional agriculturist staffing needs of the Ministries of Agriculture,
Irrigation, Land Reclamation and the Public Sector Agricultural Companies.
In view of the high priority given to improving agricultural production it
is particularly urgent that the quality of undergraduate instruction, result-
ing from serious deficiencies in instructional equipment and materials, be
corrected. In recognition of this, the project would finance the replacement



- 20 -
and upgrading of equipment and materials and about 147 man-months of fellow-
ship training for 37 key staff members and 15 man-months of specialist assis-
tance. The equipment and technical assistance proposed would permit the
upgrading of curricula, course syllabi and instructional technology to reflect
the improved practical applications of technical theory made possible by more
appropriately equipped demonstration farm, laboratories and shops.
2.30      Physical facilities are adequate for the 800 current annual intake
of new students which has been intentionally reduced from the 1,400 intake in
1974. About 80% of the 257 instructional staff have advanced degrees from
abroad, and are assisted by about 250 assistant lecturers and demonstrators.
The curriculum has been reviewed and is judged to be basically acceptable, and
with the upgrading made possible by improved equipment and more practical
applications of theory, the quality of the outputs would be greatly improved.
Equipment lists and specifications are under development and will be presented
to the Association for review and comment by late June 1980. Improved course
syllabi for laboratory, shop and field demonstration instruction will be
completed by the time of equipment installation.
Technical Assistance
2.31      As the project's expected contribution to institution building
would be of equal importance with the qualitative and quantitative outputs
of the institutions, a substantial technical assistance component (Annex 1,
Schedule 1.1) would be required. About 84 consultants, of which a small
number would likely be local specialists, would be employed by the government
for a total of about 21 man-years to assist in:
- use and maintenance training of instructional equipment;
- technical and handicraft skills and agricultural extension teacher
training methodology;
- industrial and agricultural management training;
-  improvement of farmer training;
- artisan skills upgrading; and
-  improvement of university instruction.
2.32      Additionally, fellowships for about 94 man-years of teaching,
institutional administration, artisan internship and project administration
would be provided for about 367 selected faculty and staff of the project
institutions and key project administration personnel. Because of the large
number of consultants and fellowships, the technical assistance program will
require considerable skill in its management, timely recruitment of consultants
and placement of fellowship recipients in appropriate institutions abroad.
Consequently, the government and the universities have provided an assurance
that by March 1, 1981, or such later date as the Borrower and the Association
may agree, qualified educational/training institutions abroad would be
contracted to provide both the required consultants and fellowship training
within the proposed technical assistance program, and confirmed their intention
that the technical assistance will be carried out substantially as scheduled
(Annex 1, Schedule 1.1).



- 21 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Cost of the Project
3.01         Summary of Project Cost.   The total cost of the project is estimated
at LE 39.81 million or US$56.93 million equivalent. The estimated total cost
and foreign exchange components by main project items are summarized below:
% of
LE   Millions              US$ Millions       Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Cost
16 Vocational Training Centers    3.68    6.20    9.88        5.26    8.87   14.13   36.3
6 Mobile Industrial Training      0.05    0.49    0.54       0.08    0.70    0.78    2.0
Units
2 Industrial Management Train-   0.77    0.88    1.65        1.11    1.24    2.35    6-0
ing Centers
3 Multi-purpose and Manage-       0.93    1.15    2.08       1.33    1.64    2.97    7.7
ment Training Centers
1 Farmer Training Center-         0.24    0.19    0.43       0.34    0.28    0.62    1.6
Poultry
8 Mobile Farmer Training          0.03    0.25    0.28       0.04    0.36    0.40    1.0
Units
1 National Veterinary Exten-      0.01    0.08    0.09       0.01    0.12    0.13    0.3
sion Training Center
2 Farm Mechanization Training    0.01    0.12    0.13        0.02    0.17    0.19    0.5
Centers
1 Information Reproduction        0.01    0.08    0.09       0.01    0.12    0.13    0.3
Center
15 Handicraft Skills Training      0.23    2.10    2.33       0.33    3.00    3.33    8.6
Centers
5 Skills Training Centers for    0.08    0.70    0.78        0.11    1.00    1.11    2.9
the Handicapped
1 Instructor Training Center      0.03    0.17    0.20       0.03    0.25    0.28    0.7
for Women
Secondary Teacher Training -   0.16    1.47    1.63        0.23    2.10    2.33    6.0N
Math & Science
In-service Staff Development   0.02    0.17    0.19        .3    o.24    0.27    0.7
Health Sciences Learning        0.20    1.75    1.95       0.28    2.51    2.79    7.2
Resource Center
Faculty of Agriculture          0.16    1.47    1.63       0.23    2.10    2.33    6.0
Technical Assistance and        0.66    2.65    3.31       0.95    3.79    4.74   12.2
Studies
Baseline Cost                 7.27   19.92   27.19    10.39   28.49   38.88  100.0
Contingencies
Physical                       0.69    1.86    2.55       0.99    2.66    3.65      9.4
Price Increases                3.78    6.29   10.07       5.45    8.95   14.40   37.0
Subtotal                      4.47    8.15   12.62       6.44   11.61   18.05    46.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST              11.74   28.07   39.81    16.83   40.10   56.93



- 22 -
3.02      A breakdown of estimated project costs into local and foreign cost
elements by categories of expenditure is summarized as follows:
% of
US$ Millions              LE Millions          Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        Cost
Construction
Site Development   0.31    0.13    0.44        0.22    0.09    0.31        1.1
Building            6.02    2.58    8.60       4.21    1.80    6.01       22.1
Prof. Services      0.35    0.00    0.35       0.25    0.00    0.25        0.9
Subtotal         6.68    2.71    9.39       4.68    1.89    6.57      24.1
Furniture             0.36    0.36    0.72       0.25    0.25    0.50        1.9
Equipment             2.40   21.63   24.03       1.68   15.13   16.81       61.8
Subtotal         2.76   21.99   24.75       1.93   15.38   17.31      63.7
Technical Assistance
Fellowships         0.53    2.12    2.65       0.37    1.48    1.85        6.8
Experts             0.42    1.67    2.09       0.29    1.17    1.46        5.3
Subtotal         0.95    3.79    4.74      0.66    2.65    3.31        12.2
Baseline Costs       10.39   28.49   38.88       7.27   19.92   27.19    100.0
Contingencies         6.44   11.61   18.05       4.47    8.15   12.62       46.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST  16.83   40.10   56.93    11.74   28.07   39.81
3.03      Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated civil works costs for the
proposed project are based on unit prices derived from current contracts and
detailed estimates of other projects of similar character. Furniture and
equipment costs are based on current CIF unit prices and adjusted upward to
include local transportation and installation. Cost estimates do not include
any identifiable import duties and taxes. In line with recent experience, the
estimate of technical assistance is based upon (i) average costs per man-month
of about US$7,700 for experts (consisting of fee and per diem) and about
US$2,000 for fellowships of which 80% would be foreign costs, and (ii) average
travel costs to and from home office or study base abroad of about US$1,250
per individual (80% foreign).
3.04      Contingency Allowance.  The project cost includes a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical conditions equal to 10% of the estimated
baseline cost of civil works, professional services, furniture and equipment
and 5% of the estimated cost of technical assistance. It also includes price
escalation contingencies calculated for the period beginning July 1, 1980 and



- 23 -
in accordance with an agreed schedule of implementation (Annex 1, Schedules
1.1 and 1.2). Price increases for equipment are based on a Bank study of
educational equipment prices over the last three years. Total contingencies
are estimated to be about 46% of baseline costs. For civil works, in view
of differences in prevailing rates of price escalation for local and inter-
national market prices, escalation contingencies were estimated separately
for local and foreign costs (Annex 1, Table 1.3). Prices are expected to
increase during the project implementation period by a total of about 52% for
civil works, 49% for furniture and 29% for equipment, 39% for professional
services, 20% for fellowships and 20% for experts. Accordingly, aggregated
price increases are estimated at about 34% of baseline cost plus physical
contingencies. Total contingencies are estimated to be 46.4% of base line
costs.
3.05      Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
is US$40.1 million equivalent or about 70.4% of the total project cost. The
calculations of the foreign exchange component are based on the assumption
that (a) all civil works and related professional services contracts will be
awarded to local firms, (b) all furniture contracts will be awarded to local
suppliers, and (c) all equipment is expected to be directly imported. The
resulting foreign content of each category of expenditure is as follows: (i)
civil works, 30%; (ii) furniture, 50%; (iii) equipment, 90%; (iv) consultant
architects' fees, 0%; and (v) technical assistance, 80%.
Project Financing
3.06      The proposed IDA Credit of SDRs 30.3 million (US$40.1 million
equivalent) would finance 70.4% of the total costs and would meet all the
foreign exchange cost of the project. The balance of the total project costs
would be financed by the government. A condition of Credit disbursement for
the Assiut and Cairo Universities' components would be that the government
would conclude arrangements under which US$3.2 million and US$7.7 million
respectively of the Credit proceeds would be made available for implementation
of their respective components. The proposed financing plan is summarized
below:



- 24 -
Financing Plan by Category of Expenditure
(in US$ Million)
Government              IDA           Total
Amount          %    Amount         %     Amount
Civil Works                      6.33         70.0    2.71        30.0      9.04
Furniture                        0.36         50.0    0.36        50.0      0.72
Equipment                        2.40         10.0   21.63        90.0    24.03
Professional Fees                0.35        100.0    0.00         0.0      0.35
Technical Assistance             0.95         20.0    3.79        80.0      4.74
Baseline Cost                   10.39         26.7   28.49        73.3    38.88
Contingencies
Physical                       0.99         27.4    2.66        72.6      3.65
Price Increase                 5.45         37.8    8.95        62.2    14.40
Total Contingencies              6.44         35.7   11.61        64.3    18.05
Total Project Cost              16.83         29.6   40-10        70.4    56.93
Recurrent Costs
3.07      When fully operational in 1984, the project institutions are esti-
mated to require LE 2.6 million annually in recurrent costs, corresponding
to about 0.5% of projected public recurrent expenditure on education in 1984,
and the marginal recurrent costs would be about LE 1.7 million or about 0.3%
of projected recurrent costs on education each in 1978 prices. In view of the
high priority of the proposed project, and the government's very strong
commitment, it is expected that these expenditures will be fully met.
Implementation
3.08      The construction, furnishing and/or equipping of all institutions is
scheduled to be completed by August 1984, while the technical assistance
component would be completed by October 1984 (Annex 1, Schedules 1.1 and 1.2).
This schedule is considered to be reasonable and within the capability of the
government, universities and contractors. To allow sufficient time for
submission of the final withdrawal applications, the Closing Date would be
June 30, 1985.
3.09      The existing project implementation units of the Ministries of
lndustry and Social Affairs have been very effective in implementing the
first and/or second projects and would be responsible for their respective
components in the proposed project. It is not expected that these two
ministries or the Universities of Assiut and Cairo and the Ministry of



- 25 -
Agriculture, who are new participants in Bank group projects, will experience
any undue delays in project implementation. In support of this judgment,
before the end of field appraisal (a) full implementation teams had been
appointed and were operational in each participating agency; (b) space require-
ments and floor layouts for all new construction had been prepared by the
architects, were reviewed by the mission and approval given to proceed with
advanced preliminary designs; and (c) preliminary equipment lists were nearing
completion or had been completed for all project items.
3.10      Design development drawings and detailed cost estimates will be
completed in late 1980 and will be submitted to the Association for review
and comment (para 4.05). It is expected that construction of all new institu-
tions will begin in September 1981 and be completed by August 1984.
3.11      Procurement.  In view of the widely dispersed nature of the works
and the relatively small cost of individual items (averaging US$1.37 million
including contingencies), all civil works contracts for the project items
(amounting to US$15.1 million including contingencies) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding under normal government procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. The
local construction industry is well developed and competitive and it is
expected that all contracts would be awarded to local firms. As the furniture
manufacturing industry is also well developed and competitive, it is expected
that 100% of furniture contracts would be awarded to local suppliers. Detailed
lists and specifications of furniture and equipment to be financed under the
loan would be presented to the Bank for review and approval prior to procure-
ment. Furniture and equipment items (amounting to US$35.29 million including
contingencies) would be grouped to the extent possible in large packages to
permit bulk procurement. Contracts for furniture and equipment in excess of
US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the Bank-Group's guidelines for
ICB. Small items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the above
figure or items of specialized nature for which ICB would not be practical,
and items which must be compatible with other equipment procured under ICB,
would be procured under normal government tendering procedures which are
satisfactory to the Bank and would include to the extent possible quotations
from at least three manufacturers or suppliers; the total value of furniture
and equipment so procured would not exceed US$3.5 million equivalent which
would represent about 10% of estimated furniture and equipment cost including
contingency allowances. For the purpose of comparing foreign and local bids
under ICB, local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would be allowed a
margin of preference equal to the existing rate of customs duties applicable
to competing imports or 15% of CIF price, whichever is lower.
3.12.     Disbursements.  Disbursements (Annex 1, Schedule 1.3) would be
on the basis of:
(i) 30% of total expenditures of civil works;
(ii) Furniture and equipment: 100% of foreign expenditures and
of local expenditures ex-factory; 80% of local expenditures
of such imported items procured locally; and



- 26 -
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for fellowships and expatriate
experts; and 80% of local expenditures for local experts.
3.13      These percentages would be adjusted as required, to assure continued
financing for each category for the implementation period.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
4.01      The proposed project would make a valuable contribution towards
meeting critical skill shortages and upgrading the quality of training in
the industrial sector. At the same time, the five new industrial trades
training centers would provide badly needed skill training opportunities for
low-income groups in regions not heretofore served. The needs of the poorer
segments of urban areas would similarly be addressed through assistance
being provided in handicrafts skill training to adolescents to prepare them
for gainful employment. Further improvements in performance in the industrial
sector are expected to result from the proposed expansion of the industrial
management training program initiated under the first IDA-assisted project
into two additional industrial regions. In the agricultural sector the series
of measures being taken are expected to lead to significant improvement in
productivity. Formal management training would be initiated for the first
time for agricultural and cooperative managers and agricultural extension
personnel. Farmer training classes would be initiated in three new regions
and would be upgraded in two existing areas, and would include badly needed
instruction in farm mechanics to support Bank group and bilaterally-assisted
agricultural mechanization and irrigation/drainage projects. Additional
assistance to farmers would be provided through a strengthened extension
service as a result of the proposed expansion in the training of extension
specialists and upgrading of the skills of veterinarians. Farmers would
benefit further from the information service available through the proposed
agricultural information reproduction center. For the formal education
sector, the project is expected to result in an improvement in the low quality
of secondary math and science teaching and to meet a major proportion of the
need for such teachers in upper Egypt where it has been traditionally diffi-
cult to recruit properly qualified teachers. Additionally, the quality of
university graduates would be expected to improve as a result of the assistance
being provided in inservice staff development for the University of Cairo and
in the health sciences and agriculture faculties.
4.02      The major quantifiable benefits of the project, when fully opera-
tional, would be an annual increase of: (a) about 2,100 skilled industrial
workers and a higher level of skills in another 650 industrial and 6,500
agricultural workers (including women); (b) about 1,200 better trained
managers in agriculture, an equal number in industry, 600 upgraded agri-
cultural extension specialists and 150 veterinarians; (c) about 750 qualified
math and science teachers and 50 female handicrafts instructors; and (d) about



- 27 -
1,600 trained handicraft workers. Overall, about 65% of the credit amount
would be used in directly addressing the skill training needs of about 6,000
rural and 4,000 urban low income groups enrolled in day classes, as well as an
indeterminant number enrolled in evening classes, and an additional estimated
34,000 low income farmers would be reached through the agricultural information
system.
Risks
4.03      As the technical assistance proposed in the project is large (paras
2.31 and 2.32), efficient management will be required to ensure timely recruit-
ment of specialists and placement of fellowship trainees in appropriate insti-
tutions abroad. Consequently, the participating ministries and universities
will again use the institutional contract method which has been so highly
successful in the first and second education projects.
4.04      In view of the timeliness and efficiency of implementation in the
first and second education projects, no undue risks are anticipated with this
project even though three of the five participating agencies have not had
previous experience with Bank group projects. This low level of risk is due
to the extensive discussions, planning and preparation carried out by both
government and the Association staff prior to and during field appraisal
(para. 3.09). However, Association staff will closely monitor implementation
activities both prior to and after loan signing and especially in the new
participating agencies.
Key Implementation Dates
4.05      Expected completion dates are listed in the following table for
the critical activities in project implementation. Such dates are achievable
with the proposed project management arrangements and experience and will
serve as a basis for project implementation monitoring. The government has
provided an assurance that it intends to implement the project in accordance
with Schedules 1.1 and 1.2 of Annex 1.



- 28 -
List of Critical Activities
New             Furniture
Construction     Equipment Only
Civil Works
Completion of preliminary designs                    9/80                -
Completion of final construction drawings            1/81                -
Commencement of construction                         9/81                -
Completion of construction                           8/84                -
Furniture and Equipment
Completion of preliminary lists                      7/80               7/80
Completion of final lists with complete
specifications                                   12/80              12/80
Completion of installation of major
furniture and equipment                           4/84               5/82
Technical Assistance
Commencement of fellowship programs                  3/81
Completion of fellowship program                    10/84
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(i)  the agreed upon maximum student density of 60 in the larger
and 40 in the medium size science laboratories of the Assiut
University would be adhered to and that adequate numbers of
qualified teachers would be provided (para 2.22);
(ii)  qualified educational/training institutions abroad would by March 1,
1981, or such later date as the Borrower and the Association may
agree, be contracted to provide both the required consultants and
fellowship training within the proposed technical assistance program,
and that the technical assistance will be carried out substantially
as scheduled in Annex 1, Schedulel.l (para 2.32); and
(iii)  the project wouid be implemented in accordance with Schedules
1.1 and 1.2 of Annex 1 (para 4.05).
5.02      A condition of Credit disbursement for the Assiut and Cairo Uni-
versities' components would be that the government would conclude arrange-
ments under which US$3.2 million and US$7.7 million respectively of the Credit
proceeds would be made available for implementation of their respective
components (para 3.06).
5.03      Subject to the above conditions, the project is suitable as a basis
for an IDA credit of SDRs 30.3 million (US$ 40.1 million equivalent).



- 29 -
Annex 1
Chart 1
EGYPT
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION (FORMAL) SYSTEM, 1974-1975
1978-1979
Primary                                   Preparatory                             Secondary                      Higher & Technical
Examirnation for entry  10t.,ext level                                                         enes                           4 yer
or school leavin  certficaeJ
*      Snoerissid on,-the-iob training                                                                                            1.1-may
MOH   Ministry of Health                                                                                                            Faculte of Science, Engineering,         0
MOIMR   Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources                                                                                  Agr.c.ltu,e, Med.c,r,e. t.
MOT    Mirnistry of Tou,~rissm                                                                                                       56yer
MCRNC  Minsstry ofReconstruction and New.Co~m.un,tes-                                                 E                                                                      S
MOSA - Min,stry of Social Afia,rs                                                                                                   Higher Techr,cal InSdtittes
All other I,,stitutnons responsibilily of Min,str,es ot Education and                      Aguta                                     Eng ner    Com 
High., Ed.canion and the Uni-rsntes.                                                       Ag'utrlEgneig,  omre
_                  _  ~     ~    ~~~~~~~ ~415 vears_
Con,me-cal
Technician Training (Indusirial, Paramedical,
Cormmercial, Workshop Instructorsj
MOSA Train.                                           Primary Teacher Tr.,n,ng
-,ing Centers                               _
_iility _o read, write and do elementary calatians.WorParaedical (MOHI
Tec nicnan Ttaohyng
Taning Cg gters 6
MORNC                                                                         T.-rsm iMOTI
j=G~~~~~~~T.-  C1.mr  sMIR
JOB MARKET
GRADE   1         2        3       4        5       6             7       8       9                     10       11       12                    13       14
AqGE      d       7       8      .9        10       11           12      13       14                    15       16      17                     18      19
1} Te.n,month co-res for which entrance reouireents are age 15 and
ahilitv t. read, -rte and do elementary calculations.                                                                                                     WVorld Bank-9798(R)
2/ One to three year handicraft skdis training for owt-of-scho.1 boys
and girls of ages 12 to 16.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
NORMAL                                                           EDUCATIONAL PYRAMID, 1978-1979
SCHOOL AGE   GRADE
23 IS                                         Male                                                         Female
22  17
21  16          *
HIGHER                                                   405,000            178,000
20  15
19  14
18  13                                   TOTAL ENROLLMENTS
TOTAL IN AGE GROUP
12                   424,000                             197:'000116.602                                                  47,0
16  il SECONDARY    439,000                                  180,307              10652920                                       0
15  10                451,000 *                             218,446               130,667                                         434.000
14             E      459.00         ]                      375,260                208414040
13  8                465       ,000g*                       293,478                173.201                  4044800                                                                     7
12  7471,00                                                 310,888                186341                                           454,000
11  6               477,000                                 328,770                        199,089                                   460,000
10  6              484.000     . ..                        387,911                         241,313                                    467-000
9  4             493,000                                  469,192                         297,672                                    475,000
- PRIMARY
8  3            503,000       :                           431,890                         286,339                                     483,000
7  2           512,000                                    507,673                         344,579                                      491,000
524,000  .:::::                             464,572                         328,500                                       501,000
600,000    500,000   400,000    300,000    200,000    100,000        0       100,000   200,000    300,000    400,000    500,000    600,000                         0   7
I         I          I          I          I                I          I          I          I           I      .I                          
* Higher total enrollments, not each grade separately and including grades 13 and 14 of secondary five year schools.                                                           1
** Secondary but excluding grades 13 and l4of five year secondary schools                                                            World Bank-21139
Note: Includes over-age students



31
COMPANATIVE EDUCATIUN INDICATnRS                                                               ANNEX I
z.c=.g=zx=.xx ... canzaz ... zgxzzzu
AUGUST 1, 1960
... mmucV.-cum
....................................................................................................................................
I GNP/ I t GNP    11 TOTAL:%    OF PUBLIC                                                lpkl. JA.PRI.    I                             ISEC    I          I
I         ICAPITAI DFVOTEDIPUBLIC  I EDUCATION    iLITER-  iPRI. iCnMPLE-  ISIU-  iSCH.TEACHOPHUGRESS-1 5EC. ISTU-  IMIGHLRI
I         9   A T   I Tn EOU.1   EXP, I RECURRLNT    $ACV                   tENNOLLITION           IDENTSISALARV INIIUN RATE  9ENPOLLIDENTSILNRULLt
I         3MANKLII (PUBLIC:DEVOTED:EXP  ALLUCATED;,,RATt  INATJO  :RAT!,P                                    PFLATION  :FR{im PRI, IRATIO  :PERC'tRATIUS
IPUP. IPRICESS Fyp.    I    TO                       T01              OF       NET    Pal   CUHR.:74RACH; TO GNP/    TO SEC.    I NET    TEA    . GROS 11
YRlMILL5.8 (USS)i (NLY)    I    EDU. [PRT. SLC. HI.IADULTS)i M                           iCYCLEM iER    3 CAPITA    t    M                  I (%)   tEk       I (%)    a
I (1) Is   (2) 1   (3)               (4)   8         (5)        1 (6)    1(7)   i    (a)    1  (9) t    (10)                 (11)        ;(12)   ;L13) 1(14) t
....................................................................................................................................
ADVANCED
;:;T;T;             ? 4    ?,SG b,b2OG          5.3y    8.5FY   24Y   5ty   15Y    99                 98         93(         261)       2.01)        99D         SID       I 9 Li    16.85Y
CANADA              75   24.8   7,135           7.3    16.7          30    37    26         98        Q9         97          19         2,0          99          9 U       18       1b.ou
GERMANY F.REP.75   61.6   b,670                 S.o    10.2          31EY 64-   26EY   99             9u         99          23EY        ...         gqy         8ii y     22C    20,2by
JAPAN               75  111.6   4,450           4.3t   2o.7E    iloov 37uy IIUY   99                  99D        99C         25         2.0b         gqC         95xy    20C    2a.69Y
NETHERLANDS    75   IS, 1   5,425               9.4    22.4D    21    39    25              99        95         95          " 9        2.          97          6 u       do       12.00
NEW  ZEALAND    73    3, IG a, 20 OG            S.?    ...           39    e4    119       99         99         99          26          ...         91         67        19       ea'Oo
NOPWAY              76    4.Q   b'oQ3           I.?    14.4          S u    2LI    is       99        99         99          1 Is        1.5         gqt         62        It       11.Ou
SWEDEN              76    ti i   6,150          8.8    14.0         23    29       la      99         99         99          16         ...          qo?         asc       13       so . ooc
O.K.                75   56:0   1178 0          7 .1    1 3. 9       26    41    16        99         99         ...         24         2 o           ...        t. ti     1 7      2 1 . 0 o X
U.S.A.              7 ta 1   6 7 , 9 5 0        5. 4    Is.b       ...    7 2      e 8     99E        9 9        9 9         ?2                      9 9         9 3       1 9      24.cu
FUROVE
7 6       1 d, 590          2.h    I 0. 4        37    2b    2 1       Abb        99         821'        31        2.u            7 11 E     60        e7       I 5 . 0 0
IRFLAND            74    6, IG 2, a206          5 . I    I 3.9t)    Q3Y   41Y   lay    99           I(8Xy        99A         35        ...           95A         bbxy    19         Is.47Y
PORTUGAL            77    .7   2,850            3. 6    15. 4       Q 1    2 1    1 5      7or        82        6 0 .       I 9       2. o           7 5        35        1 2       5 . Ou
ROMANIA             75   il.e   1,2"O           a . 11    6.Q        36     19     1 3      98        11) I x    ...         ?I        . . .         96          49        e2       I 0 . 0 0
SPATN               74   0. tIG d, 9906         2. 4H   15.2A    44Y   22Y   iSY    94A             LISXY        . . .       35 A      ...           ...         78xy    3 0        17,68Y
AFRICA
7 9 Id.5   1,26U            7 . 1    24 . 7 7   34K   20K   21K    35H           94XK        41 5 K ?    37K        4.OK         52KY        330       37K       5, 0 OK X
BENIN               7 4    3.,!6    1 8 06      7.2N   36.Oy    47D   23D   IOD    liD                4axy       70h         b3y       S'OH         a 38        lixy    39H         o . 7 O v
BOTSWANA            7 8    a , 6     620        5.4    19.0          48     39     1 3      35        80         7 0         3 1        0 . 0        5 0          0        2 2       t5 0
a URIJND I          78    4, 1       1 30H      2. 7    22. 1 R      46R   33k   2IR    25            23X        45          32         0. 0         22           3w       1 6       05
CAMEROON           76      1 7       31 4       3. 7    2 1.5        33    4 3     20       ...      60          as         11 P       a0            20           9('      2a        0.9oly
C.A.R.              74     1 tiF    22OF        3. Ob   1 7. 00    501  1 99   ...    ...             79xy       25          t1QY      ..            1 8          exy    27dy    o ..? I y
CHAD                7 5    4 0       1 2 0      3. 0    1 0 . 0      78    ia   ...         1 5      29xsy    30            b5by    I 5 . 0           8           2xby   3 0         0.01BY
eONGD(8)            7 4    i 3F    510          6.0    19 . 3       4 0    32      1 I     So?    1 33X          63         a 3         6 . u        ab          ssx       2 2       3 . 4 u
EGYPT               78   36 7        4 a 0      5, 5       . . I     30    35    ?b        44G        73         f, 0        30?        I . .        A2          a 9       3 7 7     1 5, 0 D
ETHIOPIA            7 7 29. 0        1 0 0      2. 4    I 2. 5      44    3 1      1 4      1 u      2b          . . .      5 0         ...          o 3          a        38        I I .
ASON              74    6.sf  d,540F           5.00   20.60    25n    90   LID    . . .    ioul                 25C        46L         5 .          16A         31Y       21       0 . 29 Y
CAMBIA              76    O'S        1 7 0      3. 3    It.s        4 a    25       b       I 0      27          q r,        3 3        . .          92          1 3       e5          ...
GHANA               7 4    'qF    S90P         ...    19.7y    43Y   22Y   20YU   ...               buxy        62H         30Y       ...           IOM         35xY    16CY    1.0gy
SUINEA              76    4 . 7      18OF       4. 3NO  ...          30    31    so         ...       sox        6 Li        4 1,      12.UF           a 6        13X       26        4 . 0 0
TVDRY COAST    76    7 . 0           61 0       N. 8    2 3. 1      33    46    1 3          9A      50          ab         4 3         7,o          4 7         17xy    26          1.64Y
XENYA               76   13,6        240        5.9    2a.0         67    23    to         40         Bo?        ho?         34         6.0          30          to        27        1.0
LESOTHO             75     1 , d     lbo       12.OP   2 3. 0       49      1 6    20      40        85          5 0        52          7 . fIN      8 I         I 0       26        1 , 0 0
LIBERIA             77     1. 7      4 30       3. 1    1 2. 9      23    1 3      26      30        six         ...        1141        a , 0        7t,         24X       1 6
MADAGASCAR         77         U      24 0       4: 0    2 4 : 0     5 3    28    1 9       5 0       9ox         33         1114        b            38          146 x     2 3       1 : 71 0
MALAoi I            7 7      6       1 4 0      2 2       q  3      4(    1 7      22      2,3       56          2 1        b I         S::          9           5        2 1       0 . 9 7
MALZ                75    S. 7F       9OF       4. 2m   3 3. OF    45F   37F   18F    IOF            22XF        ...        OFF        Q,5F          SOF          6 X      d I
MAURITANIA          7 1    1 . 3F    32OF       4. IV   a 0 . 0 y   ....  ...   ...    I 0 A          17xy       ...        2?A         ...          ...          3XV    i4A
MAURITIUS          76    0.9L    a & Q          4. 7    12 . I      5 o    2 b      t,     80C       94          99         "4          4 , 5         9 0       14 t,      3 2       1 . 5 0
MOROCCO             7 6 16, 2        520        6. 3    15.e         39R   'IBN   13R    2 8         bdX         3 5        -ig         6 , 0 0      4i 0        aax      2 1        a0 0
NIGER               77    4. 9       16 0       2. 8(i   1 2. 20    52    4 3       5        a        1 7        50         19         1 0 . 0        3,          2       24i        -
NIGERIA             74   Yt, . VF    34op       4.1DY 24. 2DY   23Y   loy   4ey    ...               49xy        ...         3-4 L) Y   ...          ...         IOXY    20cy    O b y
RWANDA              7 3    4.iF    LOOF          3. ?C   28. Of)    ....  ...   ...    2 3            52         ...         S I        ...          I . .        2        1 3       ( .2 3c v
3ENEGAL             7 7    5.2       4 2 0      5. 0    2 3. 0       ab    3ii    20        1 0       32         ...         49        1 0 , 0       a o         I 0       I? I      I . 5
SIERRA LEONE   7 3         j.QF    20OF         3. 4    2 3. 4       3 1    36     3(      157       34X        4%          32         4 , O' E     66          13X       2 1       0.53bY
SOMALIA             78     1: a      2 25       2 : 0    it: 0      55      1 0    e 6 I   9                                 32         4
SUDAN               7      5         190       4 5       q 9       418    30      1 6     20         ju        -i4          3 3        3: 8         3 3         1 4       2 O       I 1".) 2, a
SWAZILANO           78    V.b        560        6. IH   1 2. 2       37    33    23        65        92X         49          37         4'OH         b6          32X       20         a'o0X
TANZANrA           78   1 ? . 1      2 30       6.8N   1 5. 8       43      19    1 u      bar       9b          A7         58          3.            9           14       aou       0. 38
TOGO               77    d.4         3 0 0      5.5    ab.'         30    28    21        la        74          '10        58          0 .          52                    44        2. 0 0
TUNISIA             73    S. 7G    OOOG         6. 3    2 3. 4      S7    4 3      18      55        72          8 1        4 I         b . 0        31          1 Li      2 1       3 0 0
UGANDA              75   11.6        230        3. OD y 15.7DY   34FY MOLY 22EY   25A                53xy        ...         34ty       I . .        14A          bXCY   ilA         0 : St. y
UPPER VDLTA    77    t).b            116        3.4    23.9         31    lb    32           5c       13         23         "I         24,0          19           2        25        1.0
ZAIRE              7t.  2 5. 6       14 0       6.0    22. 0        49    db    25          t 5      Aox         4 4        42X         2.o         .4 1         1 3)(     iT        I . 0 0 x
ZAMSTA             76    S . I       4 4 0      6. 8    15.9        54    22    22         39        q7x         Fl 0       4q          7            2 1         1         2 3       1 .50
CENTRAL AMERTCA ANO IHE LARIBbLAN
.................................
dAHAMAS             79    U.e   2, 315          S.7    19. 1         '96    3b    I 1      93        99          97          ?a         4C,          97          75        1 Y       ...
AARBADU3            76    6.e   1, 6 2 0        9 . 1    22. 1      Q3    3t    It         99       lobx         qq          ;1 1       3. u         9q          94Y       1 7       ...
COSTA RICA          7 ti     . I    1 6115     6.6    3 3. 0        37 r)  a IJ   3o      quu        9 S        7 7         32         ...          7 7         slo.      I 9      1 3 . 0 0 v
CURA                18    9. 5   9, 5 0 0       A . 0    1 1 . 0   ...       I ...         9t,        98         QB          22         e.7          98          65        1 5      15  0 0
mnmTNICAN REP.72    4.8G    79OG                3. (    1 3. 9      42       4     a2      5 I        a 0        1 7         54         3, OD        b 3         1 4       a a       7 . 0 0
FL SALVADIJR    7 7        4, 1      5 7 0      a . 0    2 7 .2     64       8     2 7     62         86X        32          39         P.2          4 1         2 3       2 1       7 . 0 u
GUATEMALA           73    b"G    7OUG           I.q    16.0        55    23    14         47         64         ?b          3s         .u          hq           6                  4.09V
HAITI               76    4 . 7      2ou         1 . 0    g . 0      61    2 1     1 1      2 0 9     25F        I 3         shu         3 . 0       112          4                    U , 7
HONDURAS            75    d. 9(i    a 0 0 6     4 . 2N   18.8G    62G   1 -6   19G    53             7d         3(          35         3. u         btl         I I       1 7       40 0
JAPAICA             7b    d. I   L , 0 7 0      9.9    lb.?          37    33    22        8oE        9 1        S2          39         4 , 5        94          64        25        75 8
MEXIC(              75   59.9   1,050           3.'Pg  12.ODQ   Sly   26Y   12Y    76               112xy        31          116         3.u         b3          35xy    23A         8.97ty
NICARAGUA           7u    a.SG    70OG          2.S    14.2         61    is    13         S7         65         21          37         2,r,         93          t7        24        7.OU
PANAMA              78     1.8m  1, 22 0        5.Q    . . .         42H   I 3H   I 3      82A        97         82E         32H         3. 0        95.         49        314 h    2 0 . 0 O
TRTNIDAD &  T. 7 7         1. I   e 1 8 5       Li . S    14 .1     418    3 4     2 C,    95        9 d         0 1         3"         3. o         u 9         be         4
SnUTH AMERICA
;KNI;               I 6    .3        315F       5 . 0    17 .5F      .... ...    ...    38            17H        29f)        da         SP            ...         4H       18D
FIRA ZIL            I 11 I I b. im  11 30 06    2. A'  I a. a       a2F   20L   8 iA    b.A          8A6        ...         ?7CY                                dbG       isc,    .6 O'
CHILE               75   1 Q . SG  1 05 0 6      3. BRY 12.5HY   23Y   I(Y   1, (' y    ...    119xy              ...        3r, y                               uojxy              16 55Y
COLOMBIA            7u   24, 3G    b5(G          3. 3DY 21.2DY   4UDY i?2L1Y  I I Y    7 3           1 05X v     2o          33Y                                 sh y y    I "I A    b:b7Y
F C U A DOP         7 5    7 SG    70OG          3 7D   27 7C                                        102xy                   34C                     W
GUYANA              7a    U:dp    1, I OF       %:9N   1 4 : I Q     41                   f6l 93 A   gay                    33                       I          3hXy    14C
PARAGUAY            7 41    2.bG    650f                                                                                                                        b2x       24             u
I         I . 0     55     1 3    22       a I       be         ;6          30          i.9         t. b        1 7       1 2       5 . 0 0
PERU                7 5 It.UG    84OG           4.2DY 21.10Y   40Y   22Y   15Y    7 2                ilixy        la         lqtl t      3. L,        70         usxy    ?3LV   14,41Y
URUGUAY             75    e.b(, I , 37 06       2. 5    15 . 3       46    34    20         94        qsx        ...         214                     83                    I ('
VENEZUFLA           7 3 le.SG  e.,"OG           a.6      1q.9        30 r)  28U   35Q    77A          8 I        . . .       3 3        2 .'s        ...         3 3       ...    1?.63cy



32
COM4PARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS   (CONTO)                                        ANNEX I  PAGE 2
AUGUST 1, 191S0
1       2        II                   I                 I         I        I                           I       I       I                I  
I       I GNP/ I % GNP   t% TOTAL11t  OF PUBLIC 2                          I          sPPIl, SAV.PRI.                  I        ISEC   I 
I       2CAPITA2 DfV0TeDIjPUB4IC  g EDUCA71ON    &LITER-    PRI.  SCnmPLE -  WSu.  5 *EC;R3RS-  SEC. 1303. 1HIGHLR )
t       :  A T   I Tn Er)U.,   EXP. I RECURRENT    lACY           jkNRCILLtTION       I DENTS ISAL ARY I N IILN PA TE  SE NPOLL IDEN TS ENROLLs
I       3RAkKETI (PUMLIC2DEVOTEDIEXP ALLUCATEDI  RATL INATIO IRATE FOIlIPER   URELATIOJN IFROM PRI,IRATIO  IPER   INATIU 
2  OPUP   IPRICES3 Exp.    IT TO    2         Tot       1(0 OF   I NET   IPRI.SCHI,STEACH: TO GhP/ ITU SEC.   I NET   1TEAC-  1,R0852
YRIMILIL3,l (U13)8 ONLY)   :EDU. 2PRT. SEC. HI.:ADOLTS)t 10    ICYCLLAO)2E                       I CAPITA   t  (%)           S ()   tLE    I S0)   2
2  i)2    (2)               (a( )   I (A    5           6)    2 (7)        (B)    1 (9) 2  ( I T)    I (l           211    (13) 2 (IA        2
ASIA AND OCEANIA
Af`qHANlsTAN    77H 1I4.S       1080,      * 1.4   i:       07     19     5     12       290       b9        37        3*0O,        b2        93(    27        1.3o0
BANGLADESH       73   0.4G4    RIG          a.    20.2      4AM   220   2jV    23D       52.0      ...       080       ...         ...       2300D   28        ..
INDIA            75 624.4G    19901       R.6VY ...         ....          .     295      650XY     *,*       AlA        ...        *..       2950    eAAY    2, 34E Y
INDONESIA        78 14.         360       2.4      9.1      26G  32G  15G    62          92        49        32        1.9        70         19       17      2.00
TRAN             73  33.6G d,02.00        3*3    12.,       509   (AN   129    50        77        744       3?        5.09       HOA        24       32      4.3iCy
IRAQ             75   221.5 1,` 13942     b.7c   16.3DP ....                .   2bC      9300      ...       2?        *                     3509Y   2bC      9.079 
JORDAN     77    2~~~~~.3  997      4,K       .K    258t  50K    39    70          97X        )        3          ,          91        I0      2       1,.
KOREA            7b  37.0  1,242          2.8    17.5       35    29    Jb      93      102x       QA4       a9 '?      ,9         9I        bo       AS     18. 0 
LEBANON          7 2    $.5,!G 1, 07 G    3.5    18.0       39    A0    10o    64        62        6 5       ( q       2.0 a       .3        269I    25      2 3 0 0
MALAYSIA         is,  Ib,       8 60      h.7    246.0      42    34    1 5     6oC      RN        9 3       32        3. 7        7 8       448      2 8      3 0 0
NEPAL            74,  I4bB    htoP        1. I    10,0      29    20    4 1     19q      59        2 9       3 1       2,.3       I4 14              24       0.8
OMAN             7 2    U,AF e., 3U OF      .7 N    3. 8    96     -            a   20   40        9 9       27F       7,          *..       0,401     9       I,,,
PAKISTAN         7 5  1231       290 1      . BG I,6    16. 2  As   15    lB   2)1      470       59f       39        3,0         . ..      170      2 8      a.05
PAPIJA N,G.      75    2.IIG  ~45G        S.4    16. 1      38    lb    24      32       57?       73P       31       11 .0        90        124?    24       0.90?
PHTLIPPINES    74  43.20    421G          2. 5    14 .9     73    15    12      87      1042      .*.        301      1 5.u        ..,      42.9      . ..    21I. 00
SIN4GAPORE       74    2. 32I 2,564U      2.7TY    9. 20    39Y  399   IT7y    75A    10909        72A       319       *. .       99A        4400    26       7 . e8 0
SYRIA            75    1.66    83UG       3.6      6,9      39    25    26      53       89        70        35        2.0        93         45       21     12,00
THAIL-AND        7 7  64, 4     410       A.0v   20o. 0     55,  30    25       AMP      83        3(1       35        5.011       790       28       25       3. 00
TURKEY           73  4V. 9f, 1,010G       5.bcy 21.bCY .. ....8.50..                     S        .*..      34Y       *.          ...       249     2700    5.830
YEMEN            73 ~.M2    3000;    0,5           4,4      ASP  AlP  2S3       1 0      150       18a       30,       5.          75         20c    19        O. 056Y
YEMEN P.D.R.  7 6    1 . 7      280        .6      ...      57    28      4     20       890       48        30        1.0         94        21o     24        0 ,1I0
NUMBER (IF COUNTRIES2                    200      94I      q1    92    09      93     II)         79       2 01          74      933       99       97         89
RANEI                                (0,.s   (1,8.   121. (8.   12.    (S.         (13-      (13-       114-       11.5-    (8.        1,4.    (9.        (,01.
I 2,0 1 16, 0)    96    7 72)  50)    99)      1 330)    99 1       9 I      2 5,.0 I   99)I       9 5   )  45)    30 1)
OUARTILES2UPPEM  2                      5.9    21 .2     49    35    2 2      Sb      948       921        42          .        921       44       2S      I   01,
MEDIANt                    0.2    16.0U    42    24    1 8       60       82        65        34           4        64        24       22      3. 4
LOWER 1                    3.0n   12, 4      34    21    1 3     25       56        33        29           2        Al1       1 1      1 8      I1,0
*MAGNITUDE NIL UR NAEGLIGIBLE 8z1971                               N.GDP                                        7    .
QUBSIIUNAbL.E                       C.(1972                       P:INCoUDINY, FOREIGN  419                      1 CIuMN32i AND 2 WORID BANK ATLAS
*INCLUDeS PARI.TIME STUDENTS D.2197 3                              4.CENTHAL GOVI,  ON~LY                                            ONk IBO  MISSIONS
COMbINtD  W17H  PRIMARY            E.1974                        R.MINO1R1Y (IP FDUCAIOON tMOE) [9NLY                    3 tU 14 10401 MISSIONS
..UNDER 8&VIEW                        FxI975                        SSMUE AND STATE G(OVT, ONLY                                       AND/CIR UNESCO
2.1976                        TUEXCLUDING CENTRAL GOVT.                                         STATISTICAL
H._1977                       AEPUBLIC ONLY                                                    YEA694UUK
9.1978                        P.INCLUDING PRIVATE EXPENDITURE
XKIV:CLUDI2D OIVFRAGFD STUDENTS
Y.UNESCO SOURCES
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION, 041A ARE USFUOL IN rHE EVALUIATION UP VARIOUS EDUICATION SYSTEMS ANO) ANALYSIS OF RELATIVE STAGES 01 EUUCATOUNAL
DEVELOPMENT BET-FIEN 4441003 COoNTPIES. HUAfEVER,ON THB 4A5(3 liF THL PRESENAT OA1A,C9(lSS.NATIONAL. COMHPARISON SHOULU BE APF904ACHLU IT6
GRFAT CAUTIOIN. IATA PRESENTED IN THE A9nVE TABLF RAVE BfEN COILLECTED LARI6ELY HY THE IAN M HSSIO4%S FRnh W(OERNMENT S0UHCI;S1 THE
REMAINDER ARE STAFF ESTIMATES OHR DATA FROM UNESCO. EFFtORTS HAVE BEEN~ mAIR TO, STANOAWD17A W!EINITIFINS ANU .ITHIN LIMITS, To CHECY THE
AtCLJRACY OF THE DATA, NEVeRTMELESS,SUCH DATA ARE STILL IMPERFECT IN SEHERAL RESPECTS AND THE HANK IS *09K114 TO IYPKU4E TREm
PROGRESSIVELY OJN TtiL UCCASION OF 003 nPERATIONAL wnRK, IN- THE USE (IF THESE TATA, THE FOLLU*1N6 UULALIFICATIONS SHOULA) BE BORNE IN
MINDSI
W1)'DUCATIUIN" AS DEtFINED IN THE TABLE. INCLUDES ALL EUUCATION AND TRAINING, FORMAL AND NON-PIIRNAL;
12)''FRIMARY EDUALAIIN REFERS TO EDUCATION AT THE FIRST LEVEL 440 'SECONDARY' EDUCATION REFERS TO ALL EDUCAILUN AT To,E SECONDARY
LEVEL REGARDLESS OF TYPE (f.G. GENERAL, TECHNICAL, AGRICULTURAL)I 
(3)"L11ERACY RAIES-CCOL,bI APP: OFTEN OBTAINED FRIJM LOUUNTf4Y CENSUSES. IN HANYCOUUNTRIES THEY ARE ONLY APPRUXIMATIUNS AN40 IT IS
DOU8TFUL THAT ANY UNIFURM OEF0NTTIUN OF 'LITERATE' HAS BEEN FULLOMED CONSISTENTLYI
(4)'FIIBLIC EXPENDIIUHE IN EUUICATION"(CCOLS.3,A AND 5) REFER TO ALL CAPITAL AND RFCURRENT EXWENDITUkFS DEVOTED TO EDUCATIOIN BY
PUBLIC ANT AUAOI-FUBLIC AGENCIES)
(5)"ENROLLMENT RAT1OS"(COL3 7, 12 AND I4) REFFR TO SCHOOL TEAR ANO MEAN THE PERCENTAGE  OF 1*IGIHLF  rHILURPEN ENROLLEV 1ULL.TIME 
IN THE APPRUPHRIATE SCHOOL, PLIRLIC AND PRIVATE BY LEVEL   THEY ARE OFTEN SUHJELT  TIl A  IDE MARGIN L0F ERROR ON THE VEVELOHINI.
COUNTRIES OAIN6I TO VARIATInN IN IRE ACCURACY OF BASIC 6ATAII.E. AG Y.SPECTFIC POPUILATION AND ANRLILLMENTS), ENROLLMENT FIGURES
FREOUENTLY ARE HIGHER THAN THE NUMBER Of STUDENTS ACTUJALLY IN  SCHOOL.  ITVERAOiED sTuDENTS iIIOSE INCLUSION0 1S INUICATED   BY
POO(TNOTES ALSO LAN INFLATE THE RATIOS,



*                                                                    I    
EGYPT
EDUCATION III
Unit Capital Costs l' and Areas Per Student
Gross Area per      Site Works
Type of Facility                                        Student in M        & Building        Furniture       Equipment      Total
--------------- - --- US$----------
1,660             131           1,325
Vocational Training Centers - MOIMR                                                                           (3,975) 2-
790 3/
Vocational Training Centers - MOIMR                      Existing                -                -               70)
Management Training Centers - MOIMR                                            4,060             312           2,780
Multipurpose & Management Centers - MOA                                        6,440 4/          540 4/        5,140 4/-'
Poultry Training Center - MOA                                                  8,000 4/          600           3,340
Veterinary Medicine Training Center - MOA                Existing                -                             3,325 -/
Farm Mechanization Centers - MOA                         Existing                                                 760 -
Vocational Training Centers - MOSA                       Existing                -                             1,040 3/
1/  Excluding professional fees and contingencies                                                                                    x
2/  Based upon student places in workshops/laboratories
3/  Supplemental equipment only
4/ Includes boarding



EGYPT III
Contingencies Allowances
Site Development         Building             Furniture            EauiPment          Prof. Serves          Fellowships            Experts               Total Project Costs
Local   Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign       Local  Foreign        Local       Foreign    Total
Contingencies (as % of
project cost):
Unforeseen       1/              10.0       10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0       10.0      10.0        5.0        5.0        5.0       5.0
Price Escalation-                60.0       34.0       60.0      34.0       63.0      35.0       29.0      29.0       39.0       0.0       20.0      20.0        20.0      20.0
Project cost (without
contingencies):
Millions US$                      0.31       0.13       6.02      2.58       0.36      0.36       2.40    21.63        0.35      0.00       0.53       2.12       0.42      1.67      10.39          28.49     38.88
Millions LE                       0.22       0.09       4.21      1.80       0.25      0.25       1.68    15.13        0.25      0.00       0.37       1.48       0.29      1.17       7.27          19.92     27.19
7. Foreign Exchange                           30.0                 30.0                 50.0                 90.0                  0.0                 80.0                  80.0                      73.3
Contingencies (Amounts):
Unforeseen
Millions US$                      0.03       0.01       0.60      0.26       0.04      0.04       0.24      2.16       0.03      0.00       0.03       0.11       0.02      0.08       0.99           2.66      3.65
Millions LE                       0.02       0.01       0.42      0.18       0.03      0.03       0.17      1.51       0.02      0.00       0.02       0.07       0.01      0.06       0.69           1.86      2.55
Price Escalation
Millions US$                      0.21       0.05       3.97      0.96       0.25      0.14       0.77      6.90       0.15      0.00       0.11       0.45       0.09      0.35       5.55           8.85     14.40
Millions LE                       0.14       0.03       2.78      0.68       0.17      0.10       0.54      4.83       0.11      0.00       0.08      0.31        0.06      0.24       3.88           6.19     10.07
Subtotal
Millions US$                      0.24       0.06       4.57      1.22       0.29      0.18       1.01      9.06       0.18      0.00       0.14       0.56       0.11      0.43       6.54          11.51    18.05
Millions LE                       0.16       0.04       3.20      0.86       0.20      0.13       0.71      6.34       0.13      0.00       0.10      0.38        0.07      0.30       4.57           8.05-'  12.62
% Foreign Exchange                            21.1                 21.1                 38.5                 90.0                  0.0                 80.0                  80.0                      63.8
Total project cost (with
contingencies):
Millions us$                      0.55       0.19      10.59      3.80       0.65      0.54       3.41    30.69        0.53      0.00       0.67       2.68       0.53      2.10      16.93          40.00!/  56.93
Millions LE                       0.38       0.13       7.41      2.66       0.45      0.38       2.39    21.47        0.38      0.00       0.47       1.86       0.36      1.47      11.84          27.97    39.81
% Foreign Exchange                            26.4                 26.4                 45.5                 90.0                  0.0                 80.0                  80.0                      70.3
Total contingencies:  As % of total project cost, 31.7; as % of project cost without contingencies, 46.4
i/ Price escalation computed on basis of (a) separate annual increase rates for local and foreign exchange costs;
(b) Sooject completion date December 1984.
2/ Because of rounding of SDR amounts, the U01  amount of these two figures was increased in all other tables to US$8.15 and US$40.1 respectively.                                                                 0 o
Price escalation annual percentage increase -                                                                                                                                                                   a n
1980             1981             1982              1983              1984
Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign  Local  Foreign
Civil works and furniture        18        11     15         8      12         8      12         8      12         8
Professional fees                18         -     15         -      12         -      12         -      12         -
Equipment                        14        14     12        12      10        10       8         8       8         8
Technical Assistance             10        10      9         9       8         8       7         7       7         7
Rate of Exchange:  US$l = LE0.699



-35-                              Annex 1
Table 1.4
EGYPT
EDUCATION III
Types and Locations of Institutions
Institution                                        Location
MOIMR
New Vocational Training Centers:                   El-Arish, Kafr El-Sheikh,
Minia, Menoufiya, Sharkiya
Existing Vocational Training Centers:              Qena (2), Assiut (2), Aswan,
Damietta, Alexandria (2), Cairo,
Kafr El-Zayat, Port Said
Industrial Management Training Centers:            Cairo, Alexandria
MOA
Multipurpose and Management Training               Menoufiya, Sohag, Ismailia
Centers:
Farmer Training Center-Poultry:                    Cairo
National Veterinary Extension
Training Center:                                 Sers El-Lian (Menoufiya)
Farm Mechanization Training                        Barrage, Kafr El-Sheikh
Centers:
Information Reproduction Center:                   Cairo
MOSA
Handicraft Skills Training Centers:                Alexandria (3), Aswan, Cairo (3),
Shebin, Tala, Zagazig, Edko (Beheira),
Luxor, Ismailia, Faraskour(Damietta),
Sohag.
Skills Training Centers
For Handicapped:                                Cairo (5)
Instructor Training Center for
Women:                                          Cairo
Cairo University:                                  Cairo
Assiut University:                                 Assiut



- 36 -
Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 1 of 8
EGYPT
EDUCATION III APPRAISAL
Schedule of Technical Assistance
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term      Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                  Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.      Months    Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
Management Training Centers
Fellowships
Industrial Engr. Instructors        6           5                             30     3-81
Economic Research Instructors       6           5                             30     3-81
Supervisory Training Instructors   6            5                            30      3-81
Industrial Safety Instructors       2           5                            10      3-81
Experts
General Management                  1           7          7     3-81
Personnel Management and Safety    1            5          5     3-82
Management Information System       1           6          6     3-81
Material's Management                1          5          5     1-82
Marketing and Distribution          1           6          6     3-81
Financial Management                1           6          6     1-82
Vocational Training
Fellowships
Welding Trade                       5           3                             15     6-81
Electrical Trade                     7          3                            21      6-81
A.C. and Refrigeration               7          3                             21     6-81
Tool and Dies                       5           3                            15      3-82
Chemical Trades                     2           3                              6     3-82
Mining Trades                        4          3                             12     9-82
Audio Visual Aids                    2          3                              6     9-81
Project Administration              4           1                              4     9-81
4          1                              4     4-82
Experts
Tool and Dies Expert                1           9          9     3-82
Mining Trades Expert                1           6          6     9-82
A.C. and Refrigeration               1          6          6     3-82



- 37 -                            Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 2 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.     Months   Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL AFFAIRS
Vocational Training Centers
Fellowships
Directors of Instruction            20          3                           30     3-81
30     9-81
Senior Instructors                  20         3                           30      3-81
30     9-81
Experts
Master Craftsmen                     4          3        12    1-82
Instructor Training Center
Fellowships
Director of Instruction              1         3                             3     3-81
Senior Instructors                   4         3                            6      3-81
6     9-81
Experts
Instructor Training Specialist       1         4          4    1-82
Project Administratidn
Project Staff                        6          2                            6     3-81
6     1-82
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Multipurpose and Management
Training Centers
Fellowships
ATB Management                       1          2                            2     3-81
Training Center Directorate          6          1                            6     3-81
Management Planning                  5          1                            5     2-82
Curriculum Development               3         1                             3     3-81
Communications Techniques            3         1                             3     5-81
Mobile Unit Management               6          1                            6    10-81



Annex 1
- 38 -                                 Schedule 1.1
Page 3 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment               Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.      Months   Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
Cooperative Training                 3         2                             6      1.0-81
Monitoring and Evaluation            2         2                             4       4-82
Continuing Agriculture Education   2           3                             6       4-82
Agricultural Subject Matter          2         1                             2       9-81
3-81
1-82
Agricultural Educ. Evaluation        4         2 1/2                        10       9-82
1-83
9-83
Experts
Continuing Agricultural Education  3           3          9     4-81
5-82
6-83
Management                           2         3          6    10-81
Cooperatives                        1          3          3     4-81
Extension Communications             2         2          4     4-81
Farm Mechanization Training Centers
Fellowships
Tractor Operation and Implement
Maintenance                        3         6                            18       1-83
Diesel Engine Instruction            3         4                            12       1-83
Tractor Transmissions               3          6                            18       1-83
Experts
Chief Technical Adviser -
Mechanization                     2         18         36     3-81
Diesel Engine                       3          4        12      1-82
Transmission                        3          4        12      1-82
Tractor Operation                   3          4        12      1-82
Irrigation Equipment                1          2          2     1-82
Tractor Hydraulics                  1          2          2     1-82
Mechanical Illustrator              1          4          4     1-82
Mobile Units
Fellowships
Mechanization Training               3         6                            18       1-83
Experts
Mobile Unit Planner                  3         1          3     3-81
1-82
1-83



_ 39                            Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 4 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                 Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.      Months   Expert  Date  Fellowships  Date
Agricultural Information/
Reproduction Center
Fellowships
Audiovisual equipment               3          1                           3       10-81
Visual Aid Reproduction             2          3                           6        3-81
Experts
Visual Aids Reproduction            1          2         2    10-81
Audiovisual Demonstrator            1          2         2    10-81
Poultry Training Center
Fellowships
Poultry Management                  6          1                           6        9-82
Poultry Feeding Techniques          4          2                           8        9-82
Poultry Pathology                   4          2                           8        9-82
Poultry Disease Control             4          2                           8        9-82
Experts
Poultry Organization & Management  2           2         4    10-82
Veterinarian (Poultry Specialist)  2           2         4    10-82
Poultry Processing                  2          2         4    10-81
Poultry Feeding                     3          1         3    10-81
Veterinary Extension T.C.
Fellowships
Veterinarian Extension               3         2                           6        9-81
Artificial Insemination             6          2                          12        9-81
Cattle Sterility                    2          2                           4        9-81
Cattle Surgery/Pathology            2          2                           4        9-81
Experts
Veterinary Training Planner         2          4         8    10-81
Animal Artificial Insemination      2          1         2    10-81
Cattle Surgery                      2          1         2      5-82
Equipment Needs & Fellowship        2          1         2      3-81
Planning



- 40 -                                Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 5 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                  No.     Months   Expert  Date  Fellowships_ Date
Project Administration
Fellowships                          4         1                            4       3-81
UNIVERSITY OF ASSUIT
Fellowships
Internships for Education &
Science Teachers                 26          2                           12      3-81
12      9-81
12      1-82
12      9-82
4      1-83
Internships in Education
Methodology                        6         3                            9       9-81
9      9-82
Graduate Studies                    12        12                           48       9-81
48      9-82
48      9-83
Project Administration               3         2                            2       9-81
4      1-82
UNIVERSITY OF CAIRO
In-Service Faculty Development
Fellowships
University Teaching Methodology    7           2                            2      3-81
4      9-81
2      2-82
2      9-82
2      2-83
2      9-83
University Program Development       7         2                            2       3-81
4      9-81
2      2-82
2      9-82
2      2-83
2      9-83
University Education Technology   12           2                             4      3-81
4      9-81
4      2-82
4      9-82
4      2-83
4      9-83



- 41 -                             Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 6 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                 Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.      Months   Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
Graduate Studies in Educ.
Technology                        5          12                           24     9-81
24     9-82
12     9-83
Experts
Organization and Development of
University In-Service Teacher    1            3        3      3-81
Training Programs                   1           2        2      2-83
Evaluation of In-Service Training  1            1        1     1-84
Health Sciences Instruction Resource Center
Fellowships
Operation and Maintenance of
TV Equipment                      6           4                           12     3-81
TV Cameramen, Audio-Visual                                                12     9-81
Specialists, & Technical
Maintenance                       8           1 1/2                        3      3-81
3     9-81
3     1-82
3     9-82
Translation of Scientific
Information into Educational
TV Programs                       4           3                            9      3-81
3     9-81
Photography                         4           2                            2      3-81
6     9-81
Graphic Art Training                4           2                            2      3-81
6     9-81
Health Resources Librarians         4           2                            2      3-81
6     9-81
Evaluation of Health Sciences
Education                          10           1 1/2                        3      3-81
3     9-81
3     1-82
Experts
Health Science Instructional
Resource Center Development,
Organization and Management       1            2       2      3-81
Equipment Installation              2            1       1      3-81
1     9-81



- 42 -                              Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 7 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of  Technical of appointment                Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                  No.     Months   Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
Special Program Development          3       1 1/2      1 1/2   3-81
1 1/2   9-81
1 1/2   1-82
Instructional Development            2       2          4       3-81
TV Program Producers                 3       1 1/2      3       9-81
1 1/2   1-82
Innovative Methods & Techniques
in Health Sciences Instruction      2       2          2       3-81
2       9-81
Curriculum Planning & Development   1        2          2       9-81
Curriculum Planning & Development   1        1          1       1-82
Resource Center Evaluation           1        2         2       1-83
Faculty of Agriculture                                      *
Fellowships
Soil Sciences                        1        3                              3      9-81
Soil Sciences                        1       6                               6      9-81
Botany and Plant Pathology           3        3                              9      9-81
Botany and Plant Pathology           1        6                              6      9-81
Agricultural Engineering             3        3                              9      9-81
Agricultural Engineering             1        6                              6      9-81
Zootechnics and Nematology           2       3                               6      9-81
Zootechnics and Nematology           1       6                               6      9-81
Entomology                           2        3                              6      9-81
Agricultural Economics               1        6                              6      9-81
Agricultural Economics               1        3                              3      9-81
Biochemistry                         1       3                               3      9-81
Biochemistry                         1       6                               6      9-81
Horticulture                         2       3                               6      9-81
Horticulture                         2       6                              12      9-81
Microbiology                         1        3                              3      9-81
1       6                              6       9-81
Food Technology & Home Economics    3        3                               9      9-81
Food Technology & Home Economics    2        6                              12      9-81
Genetics                             2       3                               6      9-81
Animal Production                    3        3                              9      9-81
1       6                              6       9-81
Sociology                            1       3                               3      9-81
Experts
Botany and Plant Pathology           1        3         3       3-82
Soil & Water Engineering             1       2          2       3-82
Farm Power & Machinery               1        2         2       3-82
Fruit Production                     1        2         2       3-82



_ 43 _                             Annex 1
Schedule 1.1
Page 8 of 8
Number of Indi-
viduals and Term    Total Man-Months and Recommended
Project Item and Type of Technical of appointment                Beginning Dates
Assistance Required                 No.     Months   Experts  Date  Fellowships  Date
Vegetable Production                1         2        2       3-82
Dairy Products Processing           1         2        2       3-82
Fruit and Vegetable Processing      1         2        2       3-82
Project Administration
Project Staff                       8         2 1/2                         9     3-81
11     9-81



44 -
Schedule L.2
EGYPT                                                    Page 1 of 3
EDUCATION III PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
1980               1981               1921983                               1984                18
Activities
Weeks    13  26   39   52  65  78  9'1  1'04 1'17 130 143 156 169 182 1'95 208 221 234 247 260 273 286 299
1-  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A. Buildings and Site
Development
Site Acquisition
-  site Selected                 I
-  Sits Acquired                  II
Design Stage
- Selection of Archi-
tects                          I.
-  Preliminary Designs                i
- Design Development
Drawings and Cost
Estimnates                            IIli
-  Bid Documents                                  1
- Advertise and Iasue
of Documents                                       i
- Analysis of Bids                                       I
- Awards
Construction Stage
- Site Preparation
and Foundation Work
- Superstructure
- Finishes and Completion
B. Furniture
-  Preliminary Lists                   l
- Final Lists, Spe-
cification and 
Cost Estimates
- Bid Documents
- Advertise and Issue
of Documents                                                                                                                              I
-  Analysis of Bids 
Manufacturing and                                                      II
DeAdvertiy anPIsu
of Docupments
PreAw iards    Lit
Tecnial  AsistanSe-m
Bid Documents ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~ordBas210



- 45 -
Schedule 1.2
EGYPT                                                       Page 2 of 3
EDUCATION III PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY
1980              1981               1982               1983              1984               1985
ActivitiesIII  
Weeks   1i  26   39   52  65  78  91  104 117 130 143 156 169 182 195 208 221 234 247 260 273 286 299
A. Buildings and Site
Development
Site Acquisition
-  Site Selected                oil
-  Site Acquired                999 9
Design Stage
-  Selection of Archi-
tecets                         EU
-  Preliminary Designs                e
-  Design Development
Drawings and Cost
Estimates                             IIIE
-  Bid Documents                                * *l
-  Advertise and Issue
of Documents                                        I
-  Analysis of Bids                                      I
-  Awards
Construction Stage
- Site Preparation
and Foundation Work
-  Superstructure                                                                   - .  _   _   _
-  Finishes and Completion
B. Furniture
-  Preliminary Lists
-  Final Lists, Spe-
cification and                   1
Cost Estimates
-  Bid Documents
-  Advertise and Issue
of Documents-
-  Analysis of Bids                                        |V  
-  Awards
|     -- Manufacturing and
Delivery                                                               -                  - _ __ 
-Installation 
C. Equipment
-  Preliminary Lists
-  Final Lists, Spe-
cification and
Cost Estimates                        V|     
-  Bid Documents                                   VA
-  Advertise and Issue
of Documents
-  Analysis of Bidis                                          A
-  Awards
-  Manufacturing and
Delivery
-  Installation
D - Technical Assistance
World Bank-21607



EGYPT
EDUCATION III PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MOSA
UNIV. OF CAIRO
UNIV. OF ASSIUT
1980               1981                1982               1983                1984                1985
Activities                                        .,             ,    ..            .    ..             .   .                   .    I
Weeks    13  26   39   52  65  78  91   104 117 130 143 156 169 182 195 208 221 234 247 260 273 286 299
Equipment
-  Preliminary Lists          ~
-  Final Lists, Spe-
cification and
Cost Estimates
-  Bid Documents                                     _ 
-  Advertise and Issue
of Documents                                            _) LOco
Analysis of Bids                                            _
--Awards
Manufacturing andW
Delivery                                                                  
c~~~a 
a                                                        .2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
nstallation                        e  
-Technical Assistance                              E                                                                                      0
0
VWorld Ban k-21609                   L
LI)I
H (



- 47 -
Annex 1
Schedule 1.3
EGYPT III
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ million)
Accumulated    Undisbursed
Calendar                        FY             Disbursements       Disbursements  Balance
Year            FY              Semester 1/   Amount        %      Amount       %  Amount    %
1980
1          0.0         0.0      0.0        0.0  40.10  100.0
_____________   1981
2          3.00        7.5      3.00       7.5  37.10   92.5
1981
3         12.05       30.1    15.05      37.5  25.05   62.5
1982
4         10.10       25.2    25.15      62.7  14.95   37.3
1982
5         11.27       28.1    36.42      90.8   3.68    9.2
1983
6          1.24        3.1    37.66      93.9   2.44    6.1
1983
7          1.03        2.6    38.69      96.5   1.41    3.5
1984
8          0.91        2.3    39.60      98.8   0.50    1.2
1984
9          0.50        1.2    40.10    100.0   0.00    0.0
1985
10
1985
1/   Beginning from the date of credit agreement (anticipated in September 1980).



- 48 -
Annex 2
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A.   Reports and Studies Relating to Education
The Five-Year Plan 1978-1982, Volume I: The General Strategy for
Economic and Social Development, Arab Republic of Egypt,
August 1977.
Arab Republic of Egypt, Education Sector Memorandum, IBRD EMPED,
June 1978.
Arab Republic of Egypt, Economic Management in a Period of Transi-
tion, Volume I: The Main Report, IBRD EMI, May 8, 1978.
Arab Republic of Egypt, Economic Management in a Period of Transi-
tion, Volume II: Human Resources, IBRD EM1, May 8, 1978.
Arab Republic of Egypt, Economic Report, IBRD EM1, March 22, 1977.
B.   Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Second Level Teacher Training Needs in Egypt, MOE and Ain Shams
University, December 1979.
Proposed New Strategy and Plan for Agricultural Training, MOA, 1979.
Agricultural Mechanization, ILO, April 1979.
Proposed Program for Middle Management Training for Egyptian Agri-
cultural Inspectors, MOA, 1979.
Training Projects of the Industrial Sector until 1990, MOIMR, 1979.
Egypt: Reconnaissance/Identification Report, Field Report,
May 11, 1979.
Egypt: Project Brief, March 2, 1979.
Egypt: Manpower Requirements, 1982 and 1987 Projections, IBRD EMPED,
May 1978.
C.   Selected Working Papers of the Project
Arab Republic of Egypt: Third Education Project, Educational and
Architectural Working Papers, IBRD EMPED, August 1980.



-1                                                        35"                    -; -~__                                                                                      .. , 324'
- ---------- _..,                                                                   t : =                                -                                 - '
EEl      ieeF.tA
\   Iiaa:t  ar-d\          enC,    3I e
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ a -ae-   A                                edel n              Faai.ay     ,. 
/  -  r _} '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~ _ ~E                                                                                   St.   n-< 
-,9,S   ,,                                                                                             AA         A S-N                    ,
aW  '  ~~  . .'.                                                 .-:               f       500000                   .       2        0i                              -S
ARAB  REPUBLICOFEG TEl F
7'                                                                            X33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bn Scat  ,Lr'ime  <ADUZnTn
,~~~~~~N    V-'-  T .  (4,-g  '~W                          - MOIMR
V-fi-l~~~~ T=S, ,A^.g .W     - MO/.,M_R
7  F>,-  T--g  - fty - MO-e/
~~~~~~F-2b---  T-' C.\;M   o r- MOA
f-.1-~o.9 R,,~0.  C-t-MOA(
A ~ ~            ~            ~           ~         ~          =A H.M-f Sk          ,, T. ,- '  .-MOSA
U"-'ty ~~~f C.-ElMl N-,C,
Ce" ~ ~ ~ ~         ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~'                                                                                                                6?),    '   :'\
%1- ~ ~          ~           ~           ~          ~         b --d-                                 .   ,'  
'a-y'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-
T~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Uo > R K E YiXO 0~O                                                                                       '
I~~~~~~~~
I~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ R Ag)a N,                                                                               >     ,>
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT e3loat eorfOs
-26"/2                                                                                                                                           md                   l~*
.. New VecatienatlTrainig Centers  MOIMtTh
*     Vecatianel Training Cnrntsr - MOIMER                                   X        f wA   n    g
r New Industrial Manetgnment Train.ng Centers - MOIMRNe 'S
6; Multi pueptns  and Manatgement lenin ng Centers -MOA " 
Z~   Fatrmer Tnain,ng Center. Enaltre MOO                           .C   lKoE          
6-5    Ntaiena I  nete easry Eneensien Trr ming Cenini MOA    .           Ei                                                       naarge
_: Farm Maehnant ent Tmrinmg Caeners MOA                                                                                                \          
Initrmat or Repradjee an Center- BOA o6
AX    Hand unite Ski s Train ag Centena- MOSS                                                                                                d+
0     Snifin Tratiang C enters tan I-Indieapnae- MOSA
A     rrsereeear Creiinmg Cereer ten Woerne-MOOSA
-    Urntereity at Caire                                                                                                                         > INsslCt
f) Uriecreity at Aess un                                                                                                                            omOS
Mai neeo ds
---I--r Sniglways                                                                                                                                      *
Apprenimate gecennarane boundaries                                                                                             S NDh2 Asn
-24-     Internnaieona  beendanins                                                                                                                                    5h    IYI; \ 
~~~~~~~~~~16                                                                                                                                            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TUcRK EY-                  <iS           m1>  6                                                                  Kieomsers 6    20   40    606     R 500                          I.
-\                     Vi3AX  N2IRANv e                                                                                        D        t          
AeRnARPB; craeC \ TneiAU           A    BIA B ASM N                                                                                                                                                          ..
Rn     EGYNP,   A,  le..".-  
,,          EOE, ,P#e s  o>nb heW   d 2d;        lm/aue  dte                                                             t5                    ;.                                    sr9
z/ B            o mms omo       esiocossrm  ezrlu aw  &sf                                               -  -iSr   
I      ti S-s 6          S_                               A=orulnl:u h oa tlD n eF  f31  yee r    CIL__4________L,j



