Document of                FO
The World Bank                   FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2 89 7-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
September 17, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)   =   US$1.43
1 US Dollar             =   LE 0.70
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
MOA     -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOE     -    Ministry of Education
MOHE    -    Ministry of Higher Education
MOIMR   -    Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources
MOMVT   -    Ministry of Manpower and Vocational Training
MORNC   -    Ministry of Reconstruction and New
Communities
MOSA    -    Ministry of Social Affairs
SDRs    -    Special Drawing Rights



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Arab Republic of Egypt
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Agriculture
Ministry of Industry & Mineral Resources
Ministry of Social Affairs
Universities of Assiut and Cairo
Amount:          SDRs 30.3 million (US$40.1 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project
Description:   The project aims to alleviate acute shortages of skilled
manpower, by providing management and skilled worker training
in the agricultural and industrial sectors; improve incomes
and living standards of the urban poor by upgrading vocational
and handicrafts skills training and thereby improving their
employment prospects; raise agricultural productivity and
rural incomes by expanding and upgrading training for farmers,
support service personnel, and university agricultural educa-
tion; improve health services by upgrading health sciences
university instruction; expand and upgrade secondary and
university teaching skills; and strengthen the capabilities of
relevant ministries and institutions. To help achieve these
objectives, capital and technical assistance would be provided
for 25 new and 35 existing vocational, agricultural and
handicrafts skills training centers, and an agricultural
information reproduction center. SDRs 2.4 million (US$3.2 mil-
lion equivalent) and SDRs 5.8 million (US$7.7 million equivalent)
respectively, would be provided to the Assiut and Cairo
Universities for implementation of related components.
Each year, the project institutions would add about 1,200
managers and 4,400 skilled and semi-skilled workers to the
industrial work force; upgrade the capabilities of about 1,200
managers, 750 extension personnel and 750 skilled workers for
agriculture; train about 6,000 farmers, and through the
educational materials center, reach about 40,000 farmers. The
Health Sciences Resource Center would help improve services
provided by rural and district health centers. Programs
accounting for about 60 percent of the Credit proceeds would
be directed at low income groups. Government agreement to
enter into contracts with qualified educational institutions
should limit the risks associated with implementing the
sizeable technical assistance program. Delays in physical
implementation are unlikely because project preparation is
well advanced.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
Vocational Training Centers                           6.5       10.8        17.3
Agricultural Training Centers                         1.7        2.7         4.4
Handicraft Skills Training Centers                    0.5        4.2         4.7
Universities of Assiut & Cairo                        0.8        6.9         7.7
Technical Assistance                                  0.9        3.8         4.7
Contingencies:
(i)  Physical                                     1.0        2.7         3.7
(ii)  Price                                        5.4        9.0        14.4
Total Project Cost                              16.8      40.1        56.9
Financing Plan                                             US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                                               -       40.1        40.1
Government                                      16.8        -         16.8
Total                                          16.8       40.1        56.9
Estimated
Disbursements:                           FY    81      82      83     84    85
Annual                                     3.0   22.2   12.5    1.9   0.5
Cumulative                                 3.0   25.2   37.7   39.6  40.1
Rate of Return:            Not quantifiable.
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 3096-EGT, dated August 8, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Arab Republic of Egypt for SDRs 30.3 million
(US$40.1 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Third
Education Project. SDRs 2.4 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) and SDRs
5.8 million (US$7.7 million equivalent) respectively, of the Credit pro-
ceeds would be made available to the Universities of Assiut and Cairo.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM 79-839) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 28, 1979. A special economic mission subsequently visited Egypt
during March/April 1980. The findings of the mission are incorporated in
the following discussion. Country data sheets reflecting the recently
updated and revised national accounts are attached.
The Open-Door Strategy
3.       After more than a decade of inward-looking and centralist economic
policies, economic trends in Egypt have been influenced strongly since the
mid-1970's by the "open-door" strategy enunciated by President Sadat in
October 1973 and approved in a national referendum in May 1974. The
declared aim of this strategy has been to accelerate economic development
through the adoption of more outward-looking policies and greater emphasis
on the role of private investment. Specifically, the strategy envisages
(i) a gradual dismantling of government regulations and restrictions on
private economic activity; (ii) greater decentralization of decision-making
in state-owned enterprises; (iii) the attraction of foreign capital; and
(iv) expanded economic cooperation with other countries. Substantial
inflows of external assistance are considered essential to support the
strategy.
4.       To implement the open-door strategy the Government has taken a
number of specific policy actions. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound, and the concurrent liberaliza-
tion of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the parallel
market rate was introduced, Egypt's currency has been effectively devalued
by 44 percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per pound at present. Exchange
restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by
general import quotas, and more foreign exchange was made available to both
the public and private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in
1977) offered attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements,
especially with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the
same time, bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced. A debt
management unit, which was established in the Central Bank, became opera-
tive in mid-1978.



5.       In accordance with the objective of greater decentralization, the
autonomy of public enterprises has been somewhat strengthened, especially
by a new law issued in 1978 which grants greater flexibility to individual
enterprises in (i) setting up organizational structures; (ii) introducing
material incentives; (iii) establishing productivity related wage scales;
(iv) adjusting the work force to production requirements; and (v) undertak-
ing some investments from their own resources. Interest rates have been
raised several times and now stand at 11 to 13 percent for lending (to the
non-government sector) and 6 to 9 percent for term deposits. Provincial
authority to undertake regional development programs has also been
expanded. Central bureaucratic control remains strong, however, over most
investment and pricing decisions. Effective decentralization can only be
achieved within the framework of a relative price system reflecting eco-
nomic costs of production. The slow pace of price reform constitutes a
major obstacle to greater decentralization.
Impact of the "Open-Door" Strategy
6.       The open-door strategy and subsequent policy actions, combined
with a favorable external environment and the growth of domestic petroleum
production, have yielded impressive results. Above all, they have led to a
rapid increase in Egypt's foreign exchange earnings which rose from $1.4
billion in 1973 to $6.7 billion in 1979. During this period, oil exports,
workers' remittances, the Suez Canal and tourism emerged as major new
sources of foreign exchange. This was accompanied by a major shift of
agricultural and industrial exports from COMECON countries to the hard
currency area. In addition, the Government managed to attract large
amounts of foreign assistance. Gross inflows of medium and long-term
capital averaged $3.3 billion per annum during 1975-79, compared with an
average of only $0.6 billion during 1967-72. The bulk of these aid flows
came from Arab and western donors and were provided at highly concessional
terms.
7.       Increased foreign exchange earnings and foreign aid inflows have
resulted in a consolidation of Egypt's external debt and have strengthened
the country's creditworthiness. While short-term credits owed by the
Government to commercial banks peaked at $1.4 billion at the end of 1976,
they were reduced to $443 million at the end of 1978, largely with the help
of long-term loans granted by the Gulf Organization for the Development of
Egypt (GODE). During the same period substantial arrears in debt payments,
which had built up in previous years, were cleared. These changes have
solved the pressing liquidity problems that threatened Egypt's financial
position in 1975 and 1976. Favorable terms of new borrowings have also
eased the burden of the country's medium and long-term debt. Although
Egypt's total medium and long-term public debt increased sharply during
recent years--from $2.1 billion at the end of 1973 to an estimated $11.0
billion at the end of 1979--the debt service ratio declined from 33 percent
to about 20 percent during the same period. This reflects not only more
favorable credit terms--i.e., lower interest rates and longer maturities--
but also the rapid increase in foreign exchange earnings.



8.       The increased availability of foreign exchange from Egypt's own
exports of goods and services and from external assistance has allowed much
higher levels of imports. This in turn paved the way for a rapid increase
of investment, larger domestic consumption, and a better utilization of
existing production capacities. Imports of goods and services (excluding
interest payments) rose from about $2.0 billion in 1973 to $7.9 billion in
1979; imports of capital goods increased at an even faster rate. Increased
availability of foreign exchange enabled greater imports of raw materials,
intermediate goods--including fertilizer and pesticides--and spare parts,
thus breaking crucial bottlenecks that had constrained local production.
Together with investments in new capacities and the vigorous expansion of
services such as trade, tourism and shipping, these developments sharply
accelerated the rate of economic growth.
9.       The Ministry of Planning estimates that GDP at constant prices
rose at an average rate of close to 8 percent per annum during 1974-1979.
Much of the growth was concentrated in petroleum, construction, manufactur-
ing, transport and public utilities. Agricultural production, increased
slowly (about 1.5 percent per annum). The growth rate of GNP was even
higher, about 8.6 percent per annum, because of the massive growth in
workers' remittances from $189 million in 1974 to $2.1 billion in 1979.
The higher level of economic activity together with large-scale labor
migration to neighboring oil exporting countries has absorbed much of the
excess labor force that existed in the early 1970s. In fact, labor short-
ages have occurred in a number of occupations, especially in the construc-
tion sector.
10.      Egypt's investment rate (investment/GNP) increased from about 18
percent in 1974 to about 30 percent on average in the 1976-79 period. This
increase was made possible by the substantial contribution of foreign
savings as well as the rapid growth in national savings. The latter
increased from 7 percent of GNP in 1974 to more than 19 percent in 1979,
largely reflecting the rise in remittance income. The domestic savings
rate, however, while showing some growth since 1974, financed less than a
quarter of investment in the 1974-79 period. A major cause for this
inadequate level of domestic savings was the continuously low and often
negative savings generated by the consolidated government budget. During
1974-79, the current budget showed a small surplus in only two out of six
years. This was the result of high defense and security expenditures,
large consumer subsidies, fast growing interest payments and low financial
rates of return generated by public enterprises excluding the Suez Canal
Authority and the Petroleum Corporation. The result has been a continuous
shortage of domestic savings which has slowed down the implementation of
investment projects and led to inflationary financing practices in the
public sector.
Recent Economic Developments
11.      The last two years mark the emergence of the petroleum sector as
the dominant sector in the Egyptian economy. Production of crude is at
present averaging close to 550,000 barrels a day. After the 1979 round of
increases in the world price of oil, Egyptian oil exports doubled in



- 4 -
value. In 1980 export revenues from crude petroleum and refined products
will be close to $2.5 billion compared to $800 million in 1978. The share
of the petroleum sector in GDP has risen from less than 3 percent in the
early 1970s to 8 percent in 1978 and is estimated at 22 percent in 1980.
Moreover, profit transfers and other taxes from the petroleum sector will
provide an estimated 30 percent of government revenue in 1980.  It must be
stressed, however, that present production levels reflect very high produc-
tion to reserve ratios and that maintenance of these production levels
after the mid-1980s would require more new discoveries. Domestic consump-
tion is growing very rapidly so that the size of the exportable surplus may
be difficult to maintain. It is hoped that recently discovered national
gas fields prove to be large enough and can be developed rapidly enough to
release sufficient quantities of petroleum for export. It is also very
important that efforts to increase production of energy are complemented by
measures designed to achieve more efficient domestic use of energy. In
this context more appropriate energy pricing is of crucial importance.
Bank financed studies on petroleum product pricing and natural gas use are
currently underway and should form the basis for a comprehensive reform of
energy use and pricing policies.
12.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum revenues and also the
higher tariffs for Suez Canal traffic, Egypt's foreign exchange earnings
continued to grow rapidly in 1979 and 1980. At $1.5 billion, the current
account deficit in 1979 was lower in relation to GDP (8.7 percent) than
in any year since 1973. Medium and long-term capital inflows declined
somewhat when compared to the level realized in 1978 ($3.1 billion compared
to $3.4 billion) reflecting the cessation of cash inflows from GODE ($500
million in 1978) and a drastic decline in bilateral disbursements from Arab
sources (about $70 million in 1979 compared to about $300 million in
1978). This reduction was partly compensated for by a significant increase
in direct foreign investment ($710 million in 1979 compared to $439 million
in 1978) and an increase in non-Arab bilateral and multilateral aid flows.
As a result, the basic balance (current account plus net MLT capital flows)
showed a surplus ($598 million) and there has been a significant increase
in the level of foreign exchange reserves. Preliminary estimates for 1980
indicate another surplus year for the basic balance, with petroleum
revenues at about $2.5 billion, Suez Canal earnings close to $850 million
and gross MLT capital flows reaching $3.7 billion, significantly higher
than in 1979.
13.      Reforms in exchange rate and investment incentive policies have
contributed significantly to the recent improvements in the balance of
payments. The current account and the trade balance remain weak, however,
and in the mid-1980s Egypt will have to deal with substantial debt-service
payments. Longer-term prospects depend on Egypt's ability to improve her
trade balance. In the absence of major new petroleum discoveries, this
will require more efficient use of domestic energy resources, growth in
manufactured exports and a moderation in import growth. Continued care
must be taken, therefore, to keep incentives appropriate and to choose
investment projects taking account of their long-term impact on the balance
of payments.



-5-
14.      The domestic fiscal situation and the inflationary pressures it
has generated remain an area of major concern. After 1978, inflation,
reaching 20 percent for the first time in decades, has created considerable
social tension. In the summer of 1980 a major reorganization of the
Government was announced by President Sadat, including wide ranging
economic measures to redress a deteriorating social climate. Most of these
measures mark a pause in the process of liberalization and rationalization
of the price system. The prices of some commodities and services supplied
by the public sector have actually been reduced, subsidies have been
increased and there has been an across the board increase in wages and
salaries. Import duties have been lowered on a wide range of producer and
consumer goods. The recent increases in the fiscal contribution of the
petroleum sector as well as increased revenues from the enlarged Suez
Canal, may momentarily balance these increased subsidies and public
expenditures. But the underlying public sector resource equilibrium
remains precarious. A better system for targeting subsidies and a sweeping
rationalization of public sector pricing policies are preconditions for any
long-term improvement in the fiscal situation. Moreover, without such an
improvement, it will not be possible to control inflationary pressures and
resulting social problems. Recognizing the challenge posed by future
trends, the Government has announced plans for tax reform and a reform of
public sector financing practices. A new National Investment Bank is to
supervise and finance all public sector investment projects with the
objective of economizing resources and speeding up the implementation of
projects. It has also been announced that a new expenditure tax will
attempt to compensate for the very low level of revenues from direct income
taxes.
Development Potential and Constraints
15.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief: a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural resource base not yet
fully developed, varied raw materials (including oil and gas), and a key
geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily, how-
ever, than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic
for foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign contributions
decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of
sectors, including infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities has
been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate fiscal
resources and weakness in national coordination and sector programming.
Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial incentives
for production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity
together with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical profes-
sional and technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect
a non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
16.      Another key issue is population.  Already very large for Egypt's
limited living space--about 40 million in 1979 with an average density
exceeding 1,300 per square kilometer of agricultural land--the population
has grown at a rate of about 2.5 percent per annum in the 1970s, adding
almost one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this



increase is concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues
to create great pressures on resources for consumption and investment and
aggravates the employment problem in the longer run. In the past years the
Government has made a new commitment to direct action on population
matters. While it has already initiated a more aggressive program (e.g.,
by introducing an intensified home visiting program under the second IDA
financed population project), it will take considerable time to achieve
measurable results in fertility reduction.
17.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing
disparity in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of
absolute poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar
income levels, continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective
taxation of high income groups could lead to serious social problems.
18.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase
the efficiency of government administration through organization and pro-
cedural modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii)
increase real domestic savings through an effective mobilization of
domestic resources and fiscal reform; (iii) pursue a vigorous and balanced
program to upgrade the country's physical infrastructure; (iv) adopt urban
and rural strategies aimed at decentralizing urban growth and economic
opportunities; (v) develop a coordinated export promotion policy and
finally (vi) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful indicators
of relative scarcities. There is an ongoing dialogue on all these
important issues between the Egyptian authorities and the Bank. They have
also been the focus of discussions among the members of the Consultative
Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
19.      Egypt's non-military medium and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1979 was estimated at about $11.2 bil-
lion. Bilateral loans comprised about 6.9 billion or about 62 percent of
the debt outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers'
credit were about 23 and 9 percent respectively, with the remainder being
held by financial institutions. Major creditors were the GODE and USA,
followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and the Federal Republic of Germany.
IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 5 percent of the total disbursed debt. Debt
service on medium and long-term debt was estimated at $1.3 billion in 1979
giving a debt service ratio of about 20 percent.
20.      If progress towards overcoming structural constraints can be
achieved and the country's foreign exchange earning potential realized, the
deficit on the current account can be kept at about 12 percent of GDP on
average. The required capital inflows are large--but if they continue to
be available on concessional terms, Egypt would have the debt servicing
capacity to borrow the amounts envisaged, including a limited amount on



-7 -
harder terms. The burden of servicing medium and bouig-term debt as a per-
centage of total foreign exchange earnings is estimated to fluctLuste
between 20 and 25 percent over the next 5 years.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 1/
21.      The proposed credit would be the World Bank's fifty-second lending
operation and the third for education in Egypt. It would bring Bank and
IDA commitments made since 1970 to $1891.6 million. Through these opera-
tions, the Bank Group has assisted in the development of the agriculture,
industry, power and energy, population, transportation, telecommunications,
tourism, urban and education sectors. Annex II contains a Summary of Bank
loans and IDA credits as of July 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
22.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other
donors.  Its strategy involves entry into the spectrum of sectors in order
to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited resources
but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and multilateral
agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive action on a
coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can tackle
the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of technical
assistance not only for adequate implementation of specific investment
programs but for developing the domestic institutional capability to
articulate and implement future policies and investment programs. The
Bank's deliberately broad multisectoral intervention has been differ-
entiated by sectors and tailored to the pace at which the Egyptian
authorities can reasonably be expected to address these issues and imple-
ment the programs.
23.      Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". However, this sector is beset by complex
problems which stem largely from the rigidity of centralized control and
lack of management autonomy, distorted pricing, and the lack of incentives
for more efficient production. Efforts under Bank financed projects have
gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and
increasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Third Power Project (P-2844-EGT) which
was approved by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1980.



resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
proiects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank is assist-
ing the Government in reviewing the planning apparatus and strengthening
sectoral planning and project preparation and implementation capabilities
with the objective of formulating an industrial strategy and plan for the
1980s. It has also financed six subsector studies in textiles, building
materials, pulp and paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering
industries, in order to assist the Government in formulating a package of
policy and investment proposals, which are also embodied in our projects.
Two subsectors, textiles and steel, are planned for further study with a
view to developing specific recommendations about some of the major issues
facing public enterprises in Egypt, such as those relating to employment,
wages, prices, profit retention and the relationship to the private
sector. To complement these efforts the Bank has also carried out a study
on small-scale industries which we hope would form a basis for joint Bank/
Egyptian efforts in this area. Finally, the Bank is assisting the Govern-
ment in a major study of the construction/contracting industry, which is
one of the major bottlenecks facing Egyptian industry today, as well as in
initiating studies to develop a brick master plan and cement distribution
master plan.
24.      The illustrative sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of
the Bank's intervention in one sector is representative of the multifaceted
approach that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of
the Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending
follows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education,
power, gas distribution, rural and urban development, population and nutri-
tion, transportation, water supply, agriculture (including drainage),
development finance and industry.
25.      Bank Group disbursements in 1979 represented about 8 percent of
Egypt's medium and long-term capital inflow. The Bank and IDA shares of
total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about 2.1 percent and
2.9 percent, respectively, as of December 31, 1979. For the future, the
Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed
(excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 5.5 and 3.5 percent
respectively in 1981. It is estimated that in 1981, debt service payments
due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 2.3 percent and 0.2 percent,
respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external debt.
26.      IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $69 million and include: a ceramics project (approved in 1976); a
ready-made garment project (1977); a project for an agricultural complex
primarily for sugar beet (1978); a poultry project (1978); a fish farming
project (1979); and a building materials project (1980). IFC is discussing
several other private sector and joint venture projects.



- 9 -
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
27.       Education plays a significant role in the economic and social
development of Egypt. Overall progress in the evolution of the education
system has been considerable, especially over the past decade. In response
to the strong social factors and growing manpower needs, participation of the
preparatory, secondary and higher education age groups has increased from 37
percent, 28 percent and 6 percent respectively in 1970 to 57 percent, 37
percent and 15 percent respectively in 1978. The increase in primary enroll-
ment from 71 percent to 73 percent in the same period has, however, been more
modest. Female participation rates of 39 percent, 37 percent, 36 percent and
30 percent at the primary, preparatory, secondary and higher levels compare
well with those of other countries in the region but need further improvement.
Secondary education is well diversified; about one-half of the enrollments are
in technical subjects, and about two-thirds of general secondary students are
enrolled in mathematics and science subjects. Technician enrollments have,
with IDA support, increased threefold since 1970-71. In addition, enrollments
in industrial, handicraft skills, and construction trades training programs
offered by other sectoral ministries are increasing fairly rapidly. Enroll-
ments in adult literacy programs have tripled since 1970; however, the adult
literacy rate is still a low 44 percent.
28.       The Ministry of Education (MOE) and the Ministry of Higher Education
(MOHE) have the main responsibility for formal education and training. MOE is
responsible for primary, preparatory, general and technical secondary education,
and primary teacher training. MOHE is responsible for secondary technician
training. The Universities are governed by a Supreme Council for Universities,
headed by the Minister of Education. It provides a central secretariat, dis-
seminates information and otherwise has only advisory functions. The Univer-
sities themselves are responsible for the admission of students and hiring of
faculty. While vocational and technical training is provided by MOE and MOHE,
other ministries such as Agriculture (MOA), Industry and Mineral Resources
(MOIMR), Manpower and Vocational Training (MOMVT), Reconstruction and New
Communities (MORNC), and Social Affairs (MOSA) also have training programs.
Arrangements for coordination of the different educational and training
programs are currently inadequate but improving rapidly (para. 36).
Sector Strategy
29.       National economic and social development policies and programs are
dependent upon the continuing efforts of the formal and non-formal education
and training system to improve the quality and increase the supply of trained
manpower. Accordingly, the Government's educational development strategy empha-
sizes: (a) universal enrollment of the 6-14 age group in a nine-year compul-
sory cycle, accompanied by necessary expansion and improvement of teacher
training; (b) progressive increases in the adult literacy rate by expanding
primary education and increasing adult literacy classes to the extent that
resources will permit; (c) improvements in the quality and relevance of



- 10 -
preparatory and general secondary education, by upgrading and re-orienting
curricula and teacher training; (d) correcting the imbalance between the
demand for and supply of manpower by increasing technical secondary enroll-
ments and further slowing increases in general secondary enrollments, and by
increasing agricultural and industrial technician enrollments; (e) expansion
and upgrading of industrial, handicraft skills and construction trades
training for skilled workers, to further correct this imbalance; (f) improve-
ment and expansion of training for farmers and agricultural support services
staff; (g) upgrading and expansion of industrial and agricultural management
training; and (h) upgrading university instruction.
Issues and Problems
30.       Enrollment increases in primary education have fallen short of the
Government's previous target of enrolling all 6-14 year-olds by 1985. As a
result, major emphasis is being placed on the expansion of primary education
with bilateral assistance.  A revised target aims at enrollment of all six
year-old children by 1985, with the possibility that full primary enrollment
could be achieved by 1990 and full enrollment for grades 1-9 by 1995. These
targets seem feasible within the financial and implementation capabilities of
the country. However, particular efforts will be necessary to address the
socio-economic and cultural problems, especially in regard to girls, affecting
enrollments in rural areas. At present, rural enrollment rates of 62 percent
and 51 percent at primary and preparatory levels compare unfavorably with
the corresponding rates of 90 percent and 63 percent in urban areas. While of
lesser urgency, it will also be necessary over time to implement a program of
replacement of many unsatisfactory primary school buildings which inhibit the
quality of instruction.
31.       Despite efforts to expand adult education, the adult literacy level
has improved only modestly from 40 percent in 1974 to 44 percent in 1978. In
view of slow progress in achieving primary education targets and the large
target group of some 15-18 million illiterates to be addressed, effective
implementation of current plans for a major expansion of activities directed
specifically at the target group will be necessary to attain satisfactory
adult literacy levels by the 1990s. However, in view of the excessive costs
which would be involved in establishing as proposed, a network of 7000
literacy/skill training centers (3000 for women) specifically under the
literacy program, such centers should only be provided where other existing or
proposed education or training centers would not be available for the purpose.
In this respect, literacy programs should also be linked, to the maximum
extent feasible, to agricultural extension service/farmer training. In addi-
tion, existing linkages with other forms of employment-oriented skill train-
ing, for which support is being provided under IDA-assisted education projects,
should be expanded.
32.       In secondary education the most critical issue is that of quality
and relevance. Poor and overcrowded accommodations, inadequately equipped
workshops and laboratories, and excessively theoretical curricula adversely
affect the quality of instruction. Inadequately trained mathematics, science
and technical subjects teachers, in many instances, further erode educational



- 11 -
standards. Substantial improvements should result from the introduction of
more practically-oriented curricula now being developed, and the upgraded
teacher training being provided with IDA and bilateral assistance, but quality
(and output) will continue to suffer until adequately equipped workshops and
laboratories are provided. This problem will be further compounded by the
planned expansion of enrollments in the practical, industrial and agricul-
tural programs, in line with manpower needs, from about 19 percent of total
secondary enrollments in 1978 to about 26 percent in 1990.
33.       Higher Education suffers from both poor quality and excessive
enrollments in university programs. The quality of most programs is limited
because of severe overcrowding and inadequate accommodations and equipment.
These deficiencies are particularly critical in the faculties of agriculture
and engineering. Technician training accounts for only about 8 percent of
total enrollments in higher education and meets only about 27 percent of the
average annual needs for industrial technicians. On the other hand, enroll-
ments and outputs from university degree programs are significantly in
excess of manpower needs. The 1978-82 Plan proposes to limit enrollments in
the socially sensitive area of university education but, except for a few
programs in a few universities, there is little evidence thus far that effec-
tive controls will be enforced through medium-term planning and resource
constraints. The allocation in 1978 of 47 percent of the education sector's
annual capital budget for university education as well as the continuation of
the Government's policy of guaranteed employment for graduates irrespective of
need, clearly show that university education is a critical issue to which the
Government must address itself. The Government is aware of the problem and
is studying possible administrative reforms, but without any consideration
being given yet, because of political sensitivities, to enrollment limits by
faculty. In practice, the numbers of graduates relying on the Government for
employment have already started to decline, both as a result of the long
waiting times involved in obtaining public sector employment and increased
opportunities in the private sector.
34.       Available data on manpower needs show that, due to the rapid promo-
tion of industrial production, the modernization of agriculture and the con-
tinuing migration of skilled manpower, the highest priority must be accorded
to the training of industrial and agricultural managers, technicians, and
skilled workers. The annual supply of industrial technicians and skilled or
semi-skilled workers (including increases resulting from the ongoing education
projects and the proposed project), will fill only about 59 percent and 62
percent respectively of the average annual demand during 1976-87. The substan-
tial shortfalls in technician supply will continue to be filled by engineering
graduates and through on-the-job training, which is undesirable for this level
of training and the numbers required. Unless construction trades training is
increased substantially, beyond that included in the two ongoing education
projects, more than one-third of the average annual demand of the construction
sector during 1976-87 cannot be met. Available information clearly indicates
that the lack of adequately-trained agricultural support services staff is a
serious constraint to agricultural development, and the improvement and
expansion of training programs for farmers and extension service personnel
are a high priority. There are significant shortages of trained manpower
in other fields, including handicrafts, but comprehensive data for them are
not available.



- 12 -
35.       The Government is seeking a better understanding of the present
and future manpower requirements in order to reorient the educational system
to actual manpower needs. Interim results of a comprehensive manpower study,
being prepared with Bank and USAID assistance, are now available for short-
term planning. The study is due for completion in late 1980, and the Govern-
ment intends to use the results to revise its medium and longer-term planning.
Furthermore, the Bank's study on labor migration in the Middle East, due for
completion in 1980, is expected to indicate the order of magnitude of this
additional demand on Egypt's trained manpower.
36.       Because of the diversity of education and training programs under
various ministries, the Government recognizes that effective coordination
among ministries is essential to ensure a more rational approach to educa-
tional and manpower planning. While currently insufficient, coordination is
improving rapidly and institutional changes are being made as a result of
Bank-Government discussions. A First Under-Secretary of State for Technical
Education has been appointed recently, as a result of which, coordination of
all technician training in MOE and MOHE should improve considerably. In
addition, the Government has established an interministerial committee under
the First Education Project (Credit 681) to facilitate coordination and
translation of manpower needs data into appropriate education and training
targets. Fellowship training for selected MOE staff, provided under the
Second Education Project (Credit 868) is also expected to improve MOE's
planning capabilities.
Educational Finance
37.       Education accounted for about 8.8 percent of total Government
expenditure in 1978. This translates to 5.5 percent of 1978 GDP (compared
to 5.0 percent in 1974). Recurrent educational expenditures, which have
stabilized at about 13 percent of total recurrent expenditures, reflect an
average annual real increase of 9.3 percent; which is only 0.3 percent less
than the corresponding increase in total recurrent expenditures. If educa-
tional expenditures are sustained at the current levels, i.e., about 8.8
percent of total expenditures and 5-5.5 percent of GDP (assuming an annual GDP
growth rate of 6.5 percent) it should be possible for Government to achieve
the currently planned expansion and qualitative improvements, provided that
external assistance would be available to meet foreign exchange costs of
investment programs.
IDA's Role in the Sector
38.       IDA's support for education in Egypt has been consistent with the
Government's educational objectives and priorities, the most important ones of
which are to achieve a balance between the demand for labor and its supply,
and equity in the distribution of economic and social opportunities. Two
ongoing projects, assisted with IDA credits of $25 million and $40 million
respectively (Credit 681 approved in FY77, and Credit 868 approved in FY79),
are designed to:  expand and upgrade the training of technical teachers, work-
shop instructors, technicians and skilled workers, in selected industrial,
agricultural, construction and commercial trades; introduce comprehensive



- 13 -
preparatory and secondary schooling, on a pilot basis, to provide more prac-
tical instruction; and improve education and manpower planning. The second
project, supplemented by $9.9 million from other multilateral and bilateral
sources, also includes training for management in the industrial and construc-
tion sectors, handicraft skills training, primary, and secondary mathematics
and science teachers training; and population education in schools. About 45
percent and 38 percent respectively of the proceeds of these credits are
allocated to components directly related to low income groups.
39.       Overall progress of the first project has been excellent.  Curricula
and staff development for all institutions are complete, 17 centers (of a
total of 23) are completed and operational, and the remainder will be opera-
tional by the end of 1980. Implementation of the technical assistance,
including fellowship training, is nearly completed. Ninety-five percent of
the credit amount has been committed. Implementation of the second project is
also proceeding exceptionally well. The technical assistance is under imple-
mentation; 50 percent of the equipment has been contracted; curricula develop-
ment is complete; and of 23 centers to be constructed 2 are operational, 10
are under construction and construction of the other 11 will begin in early
1981.
40.       Priorities for future IDA assistance in the areas of basic education
and teacher training, and vocational, agricultural, technical and managerial
training in the productive sectors, will be determined on the basis of ongoing
discussions with the Government.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was prepared by the Government through preinvestment
studies included in the Second Education Project, a Bank reconnaissance/
identification mission in January 1979, an identification mission in June 1979
and a. preparation mission in September 1979. Appraisal took place in December
1979 and negotiations were held in Washington from July 23 to 25, 1980. The
Government's delegation was led by Mr. Samir Koraiem, Undersecretary, Ministry
of Economy, Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. A staff appraisal report
entitled, "The Third Education Project, Arab Republic of Egypt" (No. 3096-EGT),
dated August 8, 1980, is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the project are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary, and in Annex III.
Project Objectives
42.       The proposed project is designed to complement the two ongoing
education projects in addressing priority manpower training needs and quality
deficiencies in the formal education system. The project would continue the
emphasis on vocational training in industrial and handicrafts trades, improve-
ments in secondary mathematics and science education, and institution-building.
In addition, it would initiate urgently needed agricultural manpower and farmer
training, and make a start in upgrading teaching skills, health sciences and
agricultural education at the university level. Its main objectives are to:
(a) expand, diversify and upgrade the training of skilled and semi-skilled



- 14 -
workers to meet urgent manpower needs; (b) expand education and training oppor-
tunities for the urban poor; (c) increase and/or upgrade training for farmers
and agricultural support services staff; (d) increase and upgrade management
training in the industrial and agricultural sectors; (e) increase and upgrade
training of secondary mathematics and science teachers; (f) upgrade university
agricultural and health sciences instruction; and (g) promote university in-
service staff development.
Project Description
43.       In support of the above objectives, the project would consist
of: (i) construction, furniture, equipment and technical assistance for five
new industrial skills centers, two industrial management centers, six indus-
trial mobile training units, three agricultural multipurpose and management
training centers, one poultry training center and eight mobile farmer train-
ing units; and (ii) equipment and technical assistance for 11 industrial
and 20 handicraft skills training centers, one handicraft skills instructor
training center for women, one veterinary and two farm mechanization train-
ing centers, an agricultural information reproduction center, training of
secondary mathematics and science teachers, faculties of health sciences and
agriculture, and a university faculty development program.
Industrial Skills and Management Training (MOIMR)
44.       To help reduce the serious shortage of skilled industrial workers
and managers and effect qualitative improvements, five new training centers,
six mobile training units and two new management training centers would be
established; and 11 existing training centers reequipped. Together they
would have an annual output of about 2,800 skilled and semi-skilled workers
(mainly from low income groups) in the automotive, welding, electrical,
air-conditioning and refrigeration, plumbing, sheet metal, metal machinery,
pipe and mechanical fitting trades. Instructors for the new centers would
come from the instructor training center under the First Education Project
(Credit 681).
45.       The two new management training centers would provide short-term
training in modern industrial management and planning for about 1,200 trainees
annually and would complement management training programs for the Suez Canal
and Red Sea areas under the Second Education Project (Credit 868) and the
programs for top level managers provided by two major universities.
Agricultural Training (MOA)
46.       Multi-purpose and Management Training.  In response to the high
priority the Government places on improving the productive capacity of the
agriculture sector, the project would provide for the establishment of three
new multipurpose farmer training and agricultural management training centers.
These centers would annually provide short-term training in crop and livestock
production, marketing, mechanization, irrigation and drainage sector planning,
extension methodology and others for about 1,200 agricultural managers, 600
extension workers and 3,200 farmers.



- 15 -
47.       National Poultry Training Center.  To assist in training the esti-
mated 750 technicians and skilled workers required annually for the rapidly
expanding poultry production, the project would include the establishment of
a new poultry production and processing training center. The center would be
located adjacent to the 28 large Government-owned poultry farms, hatcheries
and processing plants near Cairo, which would be used for the necessary
practical training. Instruction would consist largely of short intensive
courses in poultry production, sanitation and disease control, farm management
and processing.
48.       National Veterinary Extension Center.  Additional specialized equip-
ment and technical assistance would be provided to upgrade this inservice
training program which would annually provide short upgrading training
courses in animal production and health care, breeding, artificial insemina-
tion and extension methodology for about 150 of the estimated 4,200 practicing
veterinarians.
49.       Farm Mechanization Training Centers.  In support of the Government's
program of agricultural mechanization, this component, combined with similar
training in the multipurpose centers (para. 46), would replace obsolete
equipment and provide technical assistance to upgrade instruction in two farm
mechanization centers. These centers would provide training courses of one to
three months length in preventative maintenance of farm tractors and machinery
to about 1,000 farmers annually.
50.       Mobile Training Units.  The project would assist in developing, on a
pilot basis, a mobile farmer training system which could cater to the training
needs of large numbers of small agricultural communities. Eight mobile units,
to be attached to the multipurpose, veterinary and poultry training centers
would provide instruction for periods of one to three weeks in machinery
repair and maintenance, crop and animal production and animal health for about
1,600 farmers (including women) annually.
51.       Agricultural Information Reproduction Center.  To upgrade the
seriously inadequate system for preparing educational materials, the project
would provide printing and audio-visual equipment and technical assistance to
establish a center for the preparation of educational materials. Materials
would be distributed through the existing extension system to an estimated
40,000 farmers annually, of which the great majority would be low income
farmers.
Handicraft Skills Training (MOSA)
52.       To upgrade the quality of handicraft skills training for out-of-
school boys and girls of ages 12-16 and prepare them for gainful employment,
the project would provide suitable equipment and technical assistance for
20 existing skills training centers (five of which are for handicapped
people), and one instructor training center. Enrollments in these centers,
which serve the urban poor, total about 4,500 (50 percent girls) and 100 women
instructor trainees. Some 50 instructors and 1,600 skills trainees would
annually complete 1-2 year training programs in furniture making, metal-work,
plumbing, carpet making, leather works, weaving, knitting, sewing and ceramics.



- 16 -
Secondary Teacher Training (University of Assiut)
53.       In support of the national policy for the improvement and expansion
of technological and scientific education, the project would provide equipment
and technical assistance to upgrade the training of mathematics and science
teachers at the Assiut and Sohag campuses of Assiut University, and would
complement a similar program at the University of Ain Shams under the Second
Education Project (Credit 868). The annual output of about 750 (30 percent
women) would meet nearly all of the annual needs of such teachers in Upper
Egypt, where it has been historically difficult to recruit qualified teachers
from Cairo and Delta universities. Because of a history of overcrowding of
facilities and high student:teacher ratios, the University has provided an
assurance that the agreed upon maximum density of 60 in the large and 40 in
the medium size laboratories would be adhered to and that student:teacher
ratios satisfactory to the Association and the University would be maintained
in the laboratories (Project Agreement, Section 3.03).
Improvement of Instruction (Cairo University)
54.       The University exercises a unique leadership role and pioneers a
majority of the educational innovations in Egypt's higher education system,
especially in the fields of agriculture, health and engineering. However,
because of resource constraints and social pressures for expansion of enroll-
ments in recent years, its physical accommodations and instructional quality
have become inadequate and educational equipment and teaching-learning
methodology are not up-to-date. The project would provide equipment and
technical assistance for university-wide staff development, a health instruc-
tion resource center, and undergraduate instruction in agriculture.
55.       The staff development program would provide in-service training and
required reference materials, teaching aids, and reproduction equipment to
improve instructional skills for all levels of university teachers. The
program, operating on an ad-hoc basis for three years, is to be institutional-
ized and will have a core staff of five professors and 15 educational support
staff, and would be assisted by teachers seconded from each faculty.
56.       The Health Science Learning Resources Center.  In response to the
high priority the University assigns to the revitalization and modernization
of its five health education faculties, the project would assist in the estab-
lishment of a learning resource center to be located in a new functionally
designed building now nearing completion. The center, with a staff of 11
professionals, 22 technicians and required support personnel, would provide
learning aids preparation centers, work areas, equipment and materials for
individual and group work by students and staff, a television studio, a
resource library, reproduction facilities and lecture rooms. Resource center
outputs would be made available to medical faculties in other universities.
The Ministry of Health views the center as a key element in current plans to
expand and improve clinical and field training of doctors and health profes-
sionals, and will cooperate with the center in developing educational materials
for the network of district and rural health centers with initial focus on the
health centers established with IDA assistance (Credits 437 and 850).



- 1 7 -
57.       Undergraduate Agricultural Instruction.  In view of the high priority
given to improving agricultural production, it is urgent that the inadequacies
in undergraduate instruction, resulting from serious deficiencies in instruc-
tional equipment and materials, be improved at the Cairo University which is
the major source of professional agriculturists for the sector. The equipment
and technical assistance provided by the project would permit the upgrading
of curricula, course syllabi, instructional technology and teacher capabilities.
About 600 graduates annually would benefit from the improved instruction.
Technical Assistance
58.       As the project's expected contribution to institution building would
be as important as its contribution to improvements in training, a substantial
technical assistance component would be required. About 84 consultants, of
which a few would be local specialists, would be required for a total of about
21 manyears to assist in developing programs in: use and maintenance of
instruction equipment, technical and handicraft skills, agricultural extension
methodology, industrial and agricultural management training, farmer training,
and improvement of university instruction. In addition, about 94 man-years of
fellowships would be provided for about 367 project personnel. Efficient
management of the sizeable technical assistance program will be necessary to
ensure the timely recruitment of consultants and placement of trainees.
Accordingly, the Government and the Universities have agreed that, by March 31,
1981, qualified educational/training institutions abroad would be contracted
to provide both the required consultants and fellowship training (Credit
Agreement, Section 3.02, Project Agreement, Section 2.02), and have provided
assurances that they intend to carry out the technical assistance program
substantially as scheduled.
Project Cost and Financing
59.       The total project cost, net of duties and taxes (from which the
project is exempted) is estimated at US$56.9 million, with a foreign exchange
component of US$40.1 million (70 percent of total costs). Details are
provided in the Credit and Project Summary. These estimates assume that
all civil works and furniture contracts will be awarded to local firms, and
all equipment will be directly imported. The foreign exchange costs are based
upon: 30 percent for civil works, 50 percent for furniture, 90 percent for
equipment and 80 percent for technical assistance. Physical contingencies
have been estimated at 10 percent of the base costs of civil works, furniture,
equipment, and professional services, and 5 percent of the base costs of
technical assistance. Price contingencies have been estimated at about 34
percent of the base cost plus physical contingencies. The proposed IDA credit
of SDRs 30.3 million (US$40.1 million equivalent) would finance the full
foreign exchange cost; the Government would finance the local costs totalling
$16.8 million. In line with recent experience, technical assistance cost
estimates are based upon average man-month costs of about $7,700 for experts
(consisting of fee and per diem) and about $2,000 for fellowships, and average
travel costs of about $1,250 per individual. The conclusion of arrangements
under which SDRs 2.4 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) and SDRs 5.8 million
(US$7.7 million equivalent) respectively, of the Credit proceeds would be made



- 18 -
available to the Universities for implementation of their respective components,
are conditions of disbursement against the Credit for the components relating
to the Universities (Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).
Recurrent Costs of Project
60.       When fully operational in 1984, the project institutions are esti-
mated to require about LE 2.6 million annually in recurrent costs or about 0.5
percent of projected public recurrent expenditure for education in 1984. Most
of the project institutions already exist, and the incremental recurrent costs
would be about LE 1.7 million or about 0.3 percent of projected 1984 recurrent
costs for education (each in 1978 prices). Because of the high priority
Government accords to the project, these expenditures are expected to be fully
met.
Implementation
61.       The Ministries of Industry and Mineral Resources (MOIMR), Agricul-
ture (MOA), and Social Affairs (MOSA) would be responsible for implementing
the industrial, agricultural and handicraft skills training components respec-
tively. The Universities of Assiut and Cairo would execute their respective
components. Project implementation units of MOIMR and MOSA, established
under previous education projects, have the experience and ability to success-
fully implement their relevant components. MOA and the Universities have
recently established similar units which are already functioning with full
staff complements.
62.       Project units have completed floor layouts for all new construction
and acquired the sites. Furniture and equipment lists for all centers are
either complete or nearing completion. Design drawings and cost estimates
will be submitted for IDA review and comment in late 1980.. The construction,
furnishing and/or equipping of all centers will be completed by August 1984.
Technical assistance would continue through October 1984, and the Credit
Closing Date would be June 30, 1985.
Procurement and Disbursements
63.       Contracts of $100,000 or more for equipment and furniture would be
awarded on the basis of ICB.  Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be
submitted for IDA review and approval prior to procurement. Equipment and
furniture items would be grouped in large packages to the extent possible to
permit bulk procurement.  Domestic preferences of 15 percent or the applicable
customs duty (whichever is lower) would be granted. Small items or groups of
items costing less than $100,000, and items for which the Association shall
agree with the Government that ICB is unsuitable, would be procured under
local procurement procedures acceptable to IDA, after obtaining quotations
from at least three manufacturers or suppliers wherever possible. The aggregate
of these would not exceed $3.5 million. Domestic suppliers are expected to
win all the furniture contracts totalling about $0.7 million (excluding
contingencies). In view of the widely dispersed nature and the relatively



- 19 -
small cost of individual institutions (averaging $1.4 million including
contingencies), all civil works contracts (totalling $15.1 million) would be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bidders.
64.       Disbursements against the Credit would be on the basis of:  30 per-
cent of total expenditures of civil works; 100 percent of foreign expenditures
and local expenditures ex-factory for furniture and equipment, and 80 percent
of local expenditures of such imported items procured locally; 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for fellowships and expatriate experts and 80 percent
of local expenditures for local experts (excluding architects' fees). The
projected disbursement schedule is provided in the Credit and Project Summary.
Benefits
65.       The key to developing Egypt's human resources - a major factor
in the country's development process - lies in the effectiveness of the
education and training sector. The IDA-assisted First and Second Education
projects are aimed at making education and training in Egypt more responsive
to the needs and priorities of the national development effort. The proposed
project further supports Egypt's efforts to educate and train its people at
the different levels and in the different specializations needed to meet
the development challenge.
66.       The proposed project would make a valuable contribution towards
meeting critical skills shortages and upgrading the quality of training in the
industrial sector. At the same time, the five new industrial trades training
centers would provide urgently needed skills training opportunities for low-
income groups in regions not heretofore served. The needs of the poorer
segments of urban areas would similarly be addressed through assistance being
provided in handicrafts skills training to adolescents to prepare them for
gainful employment. Further improvements in performance of the industrial
sector are expected to result from the proposed expansion of the industrial
management training program, initiated under the first IDA-assisted project,
into two additional industrial regions. In the agricultural sector, the
series of measures being taken are expected to lead to significant improve-
ments in productivity. Formal training would be initiated for agricultural
managers. Farmer training classes would be initiated in three new regions and
would be upgraded in two existing areas, and would include urgently needed
instruction in farm mechanics to support Bank group and bilaterally-assisted
agricultural mechanization and irrigation/drainage projects. Additional
assistance to farmers would be provided through a strengthened extension
service resulting from the proposed expansion in the training of extension
specialists and upgrading of the skills of veterinarians. Farmers would
benefit further from the information service available through the proposed
agricultural information reproduction center. For the formal education sector,
the project is expected to improve the quality of secondary mathematics and
science teaching and meet a major proportion of the need for such teachers in
Upper Egypt where it has been traditionally difficult to recruit adequately
qualified teachers. In addition, the quality of university graduates is
expected to improve significantly as a result of the assistance being provided
for inservice staff development and health sciences and agriculture instruc-
tion.



- 20 -
67.       The major quantifiable benefits of the project, when fully opera-
tional, would be an annual increase of: (a) about 2,100 skilled industrial
workers and a higher level of skills in another 650 industrial and 6,500 agri-
cultural workers including women; (b) about 1,200 better trained managers in
agriculture, an equal number in industry, 600 upgraded agricultural extension
specialists and 150 veterinarians; (c) about 750 qualified mathematics and
science teachers (30 percent women) and 50 women handicrafts instructors; and
(d) about 1,600 trained handicraft workers (50 percent women). Programs
accounting for about 60 percent of the Credit would directly address the
skills training needs of about 6,000 rural and 4,000 urban low-income groups
enrolled in day classes, and an indeterminate number enrolled in evening
classes. An estimated 34,000 low income farmers would be reached through the
agricultural information system.
Risks
68.       As the technical assistance proposed in the project is large, effi-
cient management will be required to ensure timely recruitment of specialists
and placement of fellowship trainees in appropriate institutions abroad.
Consequently, the participating ministries and universities will again use the
method of contracting qualified institutions abroad which has been so highly
successful in the first and second education projects.
69.       In view of the timeliness and efficiency of implementation in the
first and second education projects, no undue risks are anticipated with this
project even though three of the five participating agencies have not had
previous experience with Bank group projects. This low level of risk is due
to the extensive discussions, planning and preparation carried out by both
Government and the Association staff prior to and during field appraisal.
However, Association staff will closely monitor implementation activities
both prior to and after loan signing and especially in the new participating
agencies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Arab Republic of
Egypt and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Universities of Assiut and Cairo, and the Recommendations of the
Committee provided for in Article V Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
71.       Special features of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
72.       Conditions of disbursement against the Credit for the Assiut and
Cairo Universities' components are: the conclusion of arrangements under which
the Government would make SDRs 2.4 million (US$3.2 million equivalent) and
SDRs 5.8 million (US$7.7 million equivalent) respectively of the proceeds of
the proposed Credit available to the Universities for implementation of their
respective components (Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4(b)).



- 21 -
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed IDA credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 17, 1980
Washington, D.C.






- 22-                                              ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. EM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           1001.4                                                    MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      29.6                                 MOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE Ab       MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PFR CAPITA (US$)                  90.0        150.0     390.0                698.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     298.0       275.0      463.0                545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MED-YEAR (MILLIONS)     25.9         33.3      39.9
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 37.9         42.2      44.0                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       62.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                 ..     101.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       26.0         33.0      40.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    982.0       1125.0    1343.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.0        42.1       40.2                 44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         55.0        54.7       56.3                 52.5                    54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.0          3.2       3.5                  3.5                      3.9
POPULATION GROWT6 RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.4          2.5       2.2                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                              6.0          3.6       3.0                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     45.0         39.0      37.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      19.0        15.0      13.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.8/c        3.0       2.3                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..        206.0     187.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           9.0      21.1                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.0        99.0       91.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  102.0        104.0     109.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          73.0         71.0      75.0                 69.8                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         17.0      19.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILTD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     31.0        23.0      18.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    46.0         51.0      54.0                 54.4                     63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TnHOUSAND)                            ..          ..      108.0                   ..                     66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..       66.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                               ..          ..       88.0                 82.9                     80.4
RURAL                                ..         ..       50.0                 45.1                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         ..         ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                   ..                     79.4
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..                   ..                     29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2600.0       1910.0    1065.Ojd             4688.7                   1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2730.O0d    1640.0/d  1150.0/d              1751.5                   1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 8ED
TOTAL                            460.0        462.0     470.0                635.5                    480.3
URBAN                                         290.0     250.0
RURAL                               ..       2110.0    2090.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..        5.2
URBAN                              4.8           ..
RUEAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM -
TOTAL                               ..           ..       1.8
URBAN                               1.6          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..      45.7
URBAN                              37.8          ..      77.0
RURAL                               ..           ..      19.0



- 23 -                                          ANEX I
Page 2 of 6
MALSA
ROM  - SOCIAL tlDICASOU DATA SHUT
EGYPT                            RUZICI GROUPS CWVZGTSTD AVUAGj
- )DST nsTSTMLS
MIDDLE INCOKE
MIST UCENt         NOtTH ARICA &               MIDDLI INCOIIE
1960  /     1970 hk ESTIMATE /         KIDDLE  AST         L4TIN AMUICA 4 CARISEIEI
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMINT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 66.0         69.0      72.0                  76.4                     99.7
MALE                 80.0         84.0       87.0                 92.2                    101.0
FEMALE               52.0         53.0       56.0                 59.9                     99.4
SECONDARYs   TOTAL                 16.0         32.0      37.0                  33.3                     34.4
MALE                  23.0        44.0       57.0                 41.9                     33.5
FEMALE                9.0         21.0      34.0                  24.2                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)  22.0          19.0      18.0                   9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            39.0         38.0      40.0                  39.2                     30.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         25.0      29.0                  25.1                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        26.0           ..      43.5                  39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          4.0       7.5                  15.3                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         58.0        132.0     137.0                 139.0                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.9         16.0      17.0                  29.0                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..         22.0      21.0                  22.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0           2.0        ..                   2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      7481.4       9318.2   11124.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    7.3          7.2       8.0                   9.6                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              58.4         54.4      51.0                  47.0                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.2         18.8      26.0                  23.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                28.9         28.0      28.0                  26.1                     31.5
MALE                                 53.2         51.5      51.3                  47.4                     48.9
FEMALE                                4.2          4.1       4.3                   4.7                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.6       1.6                   1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e        17.4/gf  22.O0.                           
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.4/         42.8/Lof  49.2S*
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6/e         7.0/o.f   5.1/**
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/e        18.7/e.f  14.8/-
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     120.0                 262.5
RURAL                                ..           ..      86.0                 140.4                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     163.0                 202.1                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      72.0                 122.2                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      21.0                  22.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      25.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted'arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicatora depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55; /d Registered, not all practing in the country; /e Rural expenditures; If 1964-65; /n National,
1974-7 5.
April, 1980



- 24-                                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONS UP-SOCIAL INIDICATORS
Not..s:  Althoueh the data a-  dtse foes sore.gneal  jdged the nets ai.isa   reliable, it should elt be metd that they may ec he iters-
estonalytonpacshls becus  oftele.              fsadrie d.fI,ton  an   oeete used by differentfcoutries ic co1llettlg the data,  The data ser*., a
thel..ss,. usful to describe orders of seeid . idicate treode, and eb-tatrine  -rtaie  -Jer diffrences bt.ec.o.                        ris
The'  frefoesue  roup, sen (1) the san  esnory greup of the subject ...ustry sed (2) a county gruop rich sbact highi.aerg  ieoos  then the ceery group
of the sbjeo  cemecr  (soptt fr`Capital Surples Oil EuPo trcee  gtoop oboe.  Middle I-cs  Nortch Africa sa  Middle  est  is  hbes- hates.. of etroage
socto.-curel .. aIffieftine ).  In the referents group dsta thevraa  are ppolacion weighted arithetio  mes  for nob  indioscue and sow  sly eke  at
I..sst halt  f the countries it a group hoe date tar that ted i_acr.  SIncetphe c-vSrag  of countries aegthe indiccars depade on the sesilebility sf
data and is oct unif.r-.  sucin suet he eciedi  ral.tiog soarge  of one indicator to sothr                        h!s  -vers  are only  stu  incoparing the vale
of con indicator at a tine amon  the coutry sod racnsr-ops..i
LAND0 AREA (thousnd  q.hn.)                                                                   cotuaclo  carfl  Ilycch        Ppltlto      bcs y tuI. O                   paeccn  ply-
Tccal - Istal oufacs ares cunprI inglad ares And ilond water.-eo                            qal(e    amamdclahda  ut.i--rety  :leml
Aariccltural1   Estiece af seieultura1 area uned Impo..srily or parna.tely                  Pceulacto  er  Orein  Prerso   -  .Papuletla  dirided by  -oma  at prectiing
for crops, paecuren  macbt and kitoba gadone  t to ha. fallo; 1977 data,                   eel  ad0seltF grdutarss  Practical -. me dun,                  aieta  .ura...
GNP PEt CAPITA (0001 - IMP par capita astimatas an  --ret markc prio..a. .a.                  PouaicDe1eia   e  --tta.ur.n                         mc    f hPepltae (fta.
-1tutoedby san  covrinmthod as World tack Atlas (1976-78 basin); 1960,                        available in public ad prvtet  gecra  ad  apscisli-d  hespital.adft-
1900, ad 1978 darn.                                                                          hahilitatio  catr.    Naspirals ar  seteblihbmts p                  Ieeety  tf
ENttGY CONSUNIPTION PEN CAPITA - dAnus  ta-nsc mptiot of~cneta   nrgy (coal                     byat tenett enspsyedda.   tatebl..it.sfte        --n  p Wti I."prin ipall  ecetddat
and.lignite. petroteo. natural gas and hydr...... ouc-a  cod gehm             .1st-           ceotere not peemnetly staffed by a pbyciois (her by a nedla-  esitest,
tricity) in kilogra    of coal  quiv-lat pee capita; 1960, 1970. ad 1970                       -.r.e  gidsrfe, etc.)  hiob effer is-patist aoeindetlc   ad pee.=     a
data.                                                                                         limited range of meira1 facilIties.  Por stetietioil psesa  cokes kei-
POPULATION AND0 VtTAL STATISTICS                                                                tala i lutde WO.l priecipal genral ad  peretlatted bhnpitale, ad  rre
Total Poeulacio   Nid-TYc ..m2illiame) - As of July 1; 1960. 1970. .d 19786                  d heitalt. icaloccr   opit         sln. -T   and  fdicaladmeeric  ostss
Urb-   p t~, (p .. :.tf '  t"") -ti. -   lb..1. lc1 pp..tionfees hospitels dtvldd by the ounher of bsda.
di _aet defiitins        - af .urba   ares  mey afftot conpara.hility of data       Hoooimc
seeg  cunees  1960. 1970, and 1979 dar.tAeasls   fOc.hl.crtneerhaaod  - caa.   ubs a.el
Parultlon  a yea  2000- Current popalertn prajotle     ar  bae ..   n d 1900         An cha!ir ni  snta   AIore   r    grsyccmycth  inluedi
toa  populaccen by age end se  and thtr mortality ad  f-rtilcty raes                    hohoshod      .o sctietIo prpns
Projection' parteane     fee mortality estee camprln  of thrc  leesass                   vrg   ee    f aesn        ppt roam - cnl   os.edrrl- eesc
ing life espeotany cc birth in..reasing  ltb c..untry'e per cpita .moose                 her ofpeoePcres.1.alubn   n  rrlmeetdoeete
level1, end f 1el. ifs aupectancy ntabtlisina at 77.5 ynars.  The p5t5-                  d"llgY        reocol.~ligssld    u-eae   rntraa
macsee f or f.tril ity rtet also hov  thesa levels aee gdecline in                       uteuid pac.
ferticlityacodn   to inom   .e-a  end past family planing pefemns.                        -ss to tloctriciry teercec of deelliags) -etntl. aches. eb reral-
tehfcounry In ths.... asigned on  of thean etas c-biotione of mortulity                 C-setrio..al dwellings with elec tricity in living qaaenrs as perteies
and fetility teende_fee projsotisn parposas.                                             of total, urban, aud rural dwellings  -apacLtvly.
lt.iacinoy eatulatio      t - in a etacteay population chars is no growth since
the birtb rote I. equal to the dsath rate, and also the  ga stru.t.treen-            EDUCATIONO
meStatestu.  Thin Is achieved osly sfter fertility ratas dectiss to                    Adlueted tErol.1t1 ato
therpacen  lvlof unit ant reproduction rate, when..                bgnraco               Primary aho- totl,ee. ad  teals - G.e.. tonal, eels ad g.ls
ofcoa   -elosisl   atly.  The statienar y population sic. wa                                    lme  o   t  ages at the pri-erY level as paostesa of respsottea
aetinated on the basis of the projected charaotestioe of ths populati-r                     prmay .tbonl-as. pepuatiose; noraly icus  cid,a  egd b-li
It the y.s. 2000. and the rate of declv   of ffeotiji ty rate to replace-                   yprs  u  adutd0o ifferet lengnh.oef pefesry eesi                      a
Tar sterianaro noulecion is r-hed -Th. ysar  hbe. statie..ty pepulutloc                       sioce eom  pupile se  halow or shove the effiolal  nb_sl age.
sins hos bsen eseolied.                                            latonS..daro schaol   t.tca. eel. an  feels - tempred ne  hin-; esossday
Pouete  Dnito                                                                              dcco   norsa   es   oryaso   prmdpiay itcsoi
Pee sq. he. - Mid-ys-  popalation pee square kiLonter (100 haotarss) of                       prvdsgnrlofecoe.o   scs  nesisle   isesaise  fee ptplh
Par an.hearioaltursl land - Computd ue abc. fee agricu1nara1 land                             ....ladfed.         7;.r.8                                               .1
only                                                                                     V .c.cional erlna   rruto   eudrl-Sosisliatni
Popuatio  Ag  Otrccoe (orcsn) -Chilren(0-14 yeses),  -koing-ags (11-                incod   terbeital, teueria.1  tochr penromst   uhicb opnecctedes
64 ymar)  end enticed (6I yeses and over) .a peatage  of sid-youe  opop-                      de7oasdprmusof omoedry imatitutism.
Ias I;19,1970, and l1970tdajta.                                                             Popul-t..cher ratio - emery,-d ...c.edee             oalseysenoldi
y tripleGtiom   for     c 1906.1 -7,sd17.70g.t  r                    -. oftt1i-             prmry and secondary level  ditvdnd by nebres of tmaeheos in the
Y"r P'P'l' rI 60-70, .d 19 0- S.                                     ~~~~~~co-rnpunding 1-vl..
Pooclaton Groth tate(esecun  - uban - Annua  groth rates of urban paps-             Adul lcrcyat  (re)-Litrcet  adult. (bte to read ad  nice)
1letione for 1950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-780.                                                  sespercecoagt     o  total adst popelaio  agd 11 yeert and ar.
Crude. Birth Rats(par thouaand) - duiua  Ies births pse thousan.d of aId-year
populatIon; 1960. 1970. add 1979 data.                                                 C~ON$UNPTON
Crods Oath Rare  ose thosed) - A-noa  danthe p.r thousand of mid-yea                        Pa.... Mar C.rs (per thousand eassletion) - Paseange  cars owt mct-
ppltion  1960. 1970, and 1978 aIte,                                                     cars smting less thon eight Peron; -a-aI             eaa e   hearses ad
Cros Reproduc-tion Rats  A- Aeg  subsr of d-ghtsrsaeatill bnsr ie                            military vebiie...
her norma  esproduotls perind if abs enperi..c.s presen.tj age'-seific   c-_              tRdioRcevr  tree tbamean  retulsins) - Alt types ef  -soavee  f8 ercdA
tllity ratss;usuellytf1 iv-ysae avr     .aseding 1c 1960.  9190,  .Id 1977.                 hreceet   esa   ulic pr  hemad  fpeaats;  n                          n  al-
cO 1bIr,th-otodec.udr apices of notional rally palnpegrun.                                   -a  in effeot; data f.o  costyaseynt be ospnerefe  nest
PisPauina     er _ r eraeP   ofmrre   Lose  -  scec              f   otedcutries abolished Iicelg
eeeof child-bearing aga (114       srn)  h.e ass blrth-coeteo Idevice  to             TVNcivr  (ese thousand owevltlol-   TV' rac..ive..  fee bruadoest to
all eapriad mes  in sea age group.                                                          gsaer1 public p.r thessa   pepulseim;.. asldes unLiccsd TV  -ee -ose
POOD an0 NUSTRITIONI                                                                            in countries and it years wh-  -sglrtistle   of TY neta wa  is effect
Indo  of Pond Peod.ctipeor  aita (1969-71-1001  - Inden of per capita                1  s.u    . Sspspeo Ciecu,,ler    tsar thousand pplto)-Oeethe atnesgeicua
prd.i.of alt foo  on=dtis.!  pudrtion anolodn  see e..d .  fssdn                  d-tiso         sIIy gesra  intent      noapper .dea f         e   peisdital psb-
production.dtl.                                 rpr""god   (.                               lication devoted primarily  :1 .n..s.odinggtae   Iee.S     .e-eadered
iso  fsedrya   el.Ceedte   oe   rmr   ud   eg  sf.roa..                                to he  del1y" if it appses at 1-et feo. timos amek.
teca    fsgr) which  .r  edible and concein eueeeat.g. oof fan ad                 Cite  AnnulAcd_seraiaerTa  - Cased 00 tha sober of
tea ore soludsd).  Agregats prouctIon of  ob coancr   Istgd0                ickete sold during the year. leldteg adm.inslo    co delv-in tises
outicul avsrags producer price weights; 1961-65., 1970O. and l97;deo                        and   hile unite..
Pee -peit. surey of celof leetee _et of reuuir_ete)  _ C-pot..d from
acergy  qsolnot of eat fond  upplie- viteble  in country per capita                  LAWNR FORCE
per dsy.  Avilable uoppllee oospre  deetl  preduotun. isports les                      Total Labor PFcs (thoucde)-Eooial   ctive person. luoluing
sopoete, and  bangee it stoek.  N0ct eupplies autlds  oiml-  feed  sad,                   are   ncead aeployad but ...cludinS houselve,ndms,ec
quantitIes ased In food Proosesing, and losses. it distributio.   Rquro                   Definitione  in rarico- ceutrist urn net tepseabt; 160. 1970 and
semtesetimated by PAO heend on physioleginal ..eede fo  memlcl                        97   aa
vty  o  haslth cen.sidering onioeca   eprtr.bodyeigt,I  see-                          r1ma8 dtecon)-Paelhrfrsm  pretg   frnllkrIn.
ard .t. distribution of popu lacin, and allowing 10 peret  o  wse  t                    Aeioture  era)-Lbrfrsi   eme.f ar.hniga
house.hold leve; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data.                                            fisbing as p.ecnag s2 f cacal labse feet..; 1940, 1970 cad 1078 data.
-   ~ ~ ~~~~Pre  capita supply of Plotei  tires pee day) - Protain oontses of pee capita                     mladua-  tar-t) - Lehe  f.e...i  niie.nsseei en. m  Eosfetin
co upY cf food per day.  Net supply nf fond is dWIme- saoe    C                       n   lnron.an                  ae    aotg    fcellbefrs   90
quirstc   fo  al    nurI.. setobliahed by fSDA provide for sii                    97  a   179daa
aloec   f6  gr-m  af total protein pee day And 20 grac  of aImal en             Partici!lare= nt,        rel-inl   ei.sdfl     srtlicIpais  P
pue1  rtin, of whioh lb tees should he anima  prorsi".  Thse easd                        activis  cae   e   esn               esr es           aels   tents s
ards ore lowr thac those of 75 grac  of total peorele an1d 27 iraf of                                                                                11s
animal protineu         -orase  f or thc world, propoadb.     A   in rh.hrd               PeMo 9aeeoftonl,' sal  a                te ls pep-Atiasaf  llige retasfltlnely
World Food Survey: 1961-65, 197   n   97dt.16.17.ad17  dts.  Tha-   r   Ispeidei   ae   eleis
Par ..pit. protein supply from sninl end pulse   Protolt supply of fond dc-                 aft-eo  rteoccrso the p...        nin.adIon  tesn_b   Afe  m
1:11 1g   . prd y; 961-651970  .d 197        tctnEs..ic Dependenco  RatIo - Ratio of Ppoplation under 15 ad 65 and 0-nr
Child (as1i    o lt gate tree rh               _d) -.  ...uaI desthe Par thousan d in         to the total labor fsea.
.g. grou 1-1 year.;cto children iv chit age arou.p; f or mast dor-loping coon-
tisdte dricad fro  lifo  tablaa; 1960. 1970 sod 1977 dat.IN91COH  DISTtIBUTION
HEALTH                                                                                        Peecsnttae of Pria Ic    botph in cuebh ad ksd1    - Rrive  h                     toths
Life Iope.cyut at Bitch (yearn-) - Average  uber of yours of life r-micceg                    5 peroent, cliehe   20ppbt         cers  20 peeper, and P.s   AU Peren
I.aC        Ji,R. P, birch; 1960. 19'l and197  dut.                                          of house.holds.
Ioatler lyRas(e  thousnd) - A-ucl deaths of tnfaucs cedaron  year    POET TARGET GROUPS
of oge poetoaadlrebrh tta Etimated Aeln  Porty Ia-o  Lav-l (US) teP"                                                                                ia-rhea    ua-
Accs  to Safe feter (percen.t of onoolatice) - total.  cu,  ae.  d rural -                     bouepvry noelvlf  that ieoe  leve haeb                           be      os
_tCobropepe(oa,ubnenrua).traonbeeca  toPnaY                                   f             outrcioita.llyadnqoate  diet plus  -eece   n-fond esquirerot  is sot
Ios upy(i.Inldes tcratsd aurfa- esters or  .c.testd but ...oovtanina..ed                ffiooisln
uas__suh nofthatiteam  potectd horshole, spig,sd saitary sotle) 05                        tcin-d Rnlative Poverty In.ome Leve  US) pr tapita)1 - lubaaadrua
perceoagoc o  thelereaev  pepu_ lacos   losocea  ara   po--lc- ural.elci- povrty moose lLvn.l is ev-third  fseg   prcpt
foorc.   opnadoa oasdntmrtca   00mcr   frm     hous  mayr he                                y oa          uca f thef ..outcry.  irhr, level is darivad from  the ru1a
cn Idrd o   engoti  reseheacs f chth'                   us    c  ua  arve               lvelwit  adusten  forhIe  cos  of lirigtoubnaes
resnal   ccs    oudipl   ht  h   oueie  rmmbr   f  h   oueodtaim                             hdPouaio    ea   bout   oerylceeLvs  prcn)-  ra
lanly  cte  me d                                                                          _______or
rurl..u.e.      o   eol   coral  urbar. andrurh. h..d.hnecer
pit  cole   o~dcnla p:, uiullatlyca.r.t



ANNEX I
GiiP Per C*Plta  05$460                                                                              - 25 -pg                                                                    o    6
EGYPT    CEhltC lItATOiS
As ont--                                                                                                                             _
ilion KS                       AtSiTE A(L T                   t 8i7E   0 rmtent 1975 erice,)
(at crrernt prlce)
199                         1975       1976     1977      197        19"        19SOf
t*ATIOiiL ACCOLiNTS
Gto.. DOostlc ProductA                      17307.0                        8.1       11         8.1        9.0        6.0        7.0
Agrlc.lt,v                                384. o 0.5                                1.5     -2.9         .         3.9        2.S
Ild.stry   Petrolaw                       5696.0                       19.4      20.0       10.1       9.2        8.4       10.4
S.rolcs                                   726'. 0                       5.8        2.9       8.6       10.8        9.8        6.0
Cac.aeptlsn                                   693.0                         0.4 O     3.J1      6.3 4I                14.0       9 .
Gral Incste_ent                              49il5.0                      65.0        4.3      -2.2       2`8.        1.3        6.0
ESportS of GiF5                              S315.0                       194        23.4      10.,       -3.5       -5.2        9.3
Isport. of GNFS                              ml9.0                        2J37        9.9       3.J t     4.2         7.1       11.0
Gross Ndtlanai S-les                         3462. 0                      76.3      101.0       0.2       70.7        4.9
PkCES
GOP Deflstor /                                                           100.0      105.4    16.1        104.0      104.7      121.5
E-cha-.e Rate                                                              2. IS       197      1.75       l.54       1.43       1.43
Shmrs of ON  et lbrket Prie mia                                                                       Avrer.  ACA I              Snr .. ) a t c.nst.nt priges
(at c          I.Irent prIce. )I                                                                       "' s      'r             1'7S PrIces
ism       1170       9e75       1 0                                                                           leo-lo 0q81970-1975   1975-1900
Gr-ss D-setIc Product
_  AgricIltuar                           27.9      25.3       28.2       21.1                                                                              4. 7              5.1            2.1
-  Ind.stry & Petrole                    23.7      X 1        2.         34.7                                                                              3.0               2.6           11.4
Sr-Ices                              42.9 .       .        42.8       n.s                                                                               6.3               4.4           9.7
Coasu.ptlon                              87.3        0.6      90.4       18.8                                                                              4.4                8.0           7.4
Gros. in-eteet                           13.3       13.9      32.3       29.5                                                                              5.8                4.2           7.4
Eap.rt of ours                           19.5       14.2      21.5       43.9                                                                              4.9               22.8           6.5
lepart of OWS                           20.1       18.8       44.1       62.1                                                                              1.1               13.1           5.0
Cross tlon  l 5efinq   12 '  I'i60   As X of iW   lAr                                                              }~~         ~ ~ ~~~~          ~ ~~.2  17 2  22.1
Gr-is National Seals.                    12.9        7.7      10 9       17.172172                                                                                                          2.
190       1;0       117         IM
PUBLIC FI6KtE
cxrrent rea....                                     18 5      21.1       3.91       30.0
Currect e"p .nditsra                               21.5       22.0       359        34.
S-rplus (.) or deficit (-)                         -3.0       -0.7       -5.8       -4.
C-pit-l ependitare                                  11.8      11.1       16.6       29.5
Fcreqn. fin ncing                                    - 0.               16.0        9.2
1960-70   1910-75   197S-i0   11d-i5          Ism-so
OTiHER INDICATORS
GNP grcsth re t.  X)                                 4.5        5.0        8.6
GOP per c-pit  grwth rat   )                          1.9       2.7        6.3
Energy cons-uptton grotth r-et   )                   14.9(1)   14.9t()   I1J.(1)
lCORit:61
llrgioel ansge r t                                     -         -        O.ti
Impart eIstllcty                                     0.9        1.7        *.9
/a    At _rket prices; cospennts are apressed at factor cos t snd .111 e.  add i       to eclsel"n Of nMt
indirect t...s *nd su-sidles
/b    Effactic  race csetpoed apac .lght.d .--rea. of ts offIcll ed parallel mrket rate.
Zs    E t     "I_ta.
(I)   El ectrlelty only.                                                                                                                          July  31, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Amount (million
US$ at current        Annual Growth Rates At Constant 1978 Prices
prices
1979          1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1Q80 e/
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports            3835          17.4      7.1      3.0   - 1.1      0.4      6.0
-  Primary                  3245           12.0    25.4    17.1   - 2.4    12.4         Q.0
-  Manufactures              590           24.5   -14.1   -20.9       2.2   -28.9    -5.1
Merchandise Imports            6919          22.5   - 3.5   - 4.6       5.8    10.9
-  Food                     1740          29.5    19.2   -29.8    22.4    15.1         9.8
-  Petroleum                 243         -34.4   -23.7   -53.1        2.8    16.8        -
-  Machinery and            2801          62.6    24.8    14.8        1.8    27.4    10.0
Equipment
-  Others                   2135          20.2   -26.2       6.1      1.2   - 7.8      4.9
PRICES
Export Price Index                           81.4    88.0    94.7   100.0   152.0   190.n
Import Price Index                          81.8    85.7    92.4   100.0   113.7   128.5
Terms of Trade Index                         99.5   102.7   102.5   100.0   133.7   147.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade    Average Annual Increase
(% at current prices)                 at constant 1978 prices
1975               1980                  1975-1980
Exports                      100.0               100.0                        3.2
Primary                     53.3                88.0                       12.0
Manufactures                46.7                12.0                    - 6.4
Imports                      100.0               100.0                        4.5
Food                        23.6                26.2                        5.5
Petroleum                    6.9                 4.2                    - 28.8
Machinery and               23.7                35.7                       2q.8
Equipment
Others                      45.8                33.9                    -  4.2
July 31, 1980



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
1974     1975      1976     1977      1978    1979    1980 e/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export of Goods and Non Factor Services                         2251     2503      3319     3949      4053    5315    6780
-  of which merchandise f.o.b.                                1818     1875      2169     2404      2512    3835    5n8n
Imports of Goods and Non Factor Services                       3959      5141      5182     5765      6492    7889    96no
-  of which merchandise c.i.f.                               3618      4608      4659     4792      5434    6919    8400
Net Factor Income                                                 70      122       413       470     1098    1067       785
Current Account Balance                                       -1638    -2516    -145n    -1346    -1289   -1507   -2n39
Private Direct Investment                                         87      225       444      477       439      710     90n
MLT Loans (Net)                                                 1725     2985      1680      2660     2n78    1420    1625
- official                                                   1515      2881      1556     2580      1957    1125    13n5
- private                                                     210       104       124       80       1?1      295     32n
Other Capital (Net)                                           -  97    - 752    - 628    -1600    -1113   - 586   - 49n
Changes in Reserves                                               10       58      - 46     -141      - 63    - 37
International Reserves                                          355       296       342      533       596      633
- of which gold                                               103       103       103      103       102      102
Reserves as Months Imports                                       1.1      0.7       0.8       1.1      1.1      1.n
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross Disbursements                                             2227     3612      2305     3349      2812    1985      2350
Offical Grants                                               1303      1076       792      445       345
Concessional Loans                                             120     1444       668     1855      1600
-  DAC                                                         55       199       421      591       799
-  OPEC                                                         3     .1142       171      137        93
-  IDA                                                          12       49        42       42        45
-  Others                                                      50        54        34     1085       663
Non Concessional Loans                                        804      1092       845     1049       867
-  official export credits                                    379       639       214       24        44
-  IBRD                                                        -         14        36       37        57
-  Other multilateral                                          -          6        -       256        18
-  Private                                                    425       433       595      732       748
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                                  2810     4793      5724     8051      9879   10onn
-  official                                                  1963      3852      4674     6761      8455    s450
-  private                                                    847       941      1050     1290      1424    1550
Undisbursed Debt                                                1575     2370      2464     4434      4248    4500
Debt Service
Total Service Payment                                            516      594       664      1095     1207    1370    1840
-  Interest                                                     7n      114       110      339       386     40n      615
Debt Service Ratio  2/                                          21.0     21.4      16.8     23.5      22.0    20.2    22.6
Average Interest Rate on New Loans                               6.3      4.7       5.1      5.1       4.6      n.a.
Average Maturity of New Loans                                   17.2     18.5      23.3      18.7     27.9      n.a.
e/  Estimate
1/  Total amount of concessional and non-concessional loans is US$1875 mllion.   No further
breakdown is available.
2/  Total debt service payment/exports of goods and services excluding exports by foreign
oil companies.
3/  Includes service payment due on Arab loans
July 31, 1980



- 28 -                                       ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(July 31, 1980)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit       Approved                                                                   less cancellations
Numbers            FY          Borrower       Purpose                                 Bank       IDA    UndisburBed
Ln  243-UAR          60             SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   56.5        --          --
Cr  181-UAR          70            UAR          Nile Delta Drainage                       --      26.0         1.8
Cr  284-UAR          72            ARE           Railways I                               --      30.0          --
Cr  393-UAR          73            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage                      --      36.0         2.8
Cr  412-UAR          73            ARE          Development Industrial Bank l/            --      15.0          --
Cr  423-UAR          74            ARE           Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation            --      18.5         3.0
Cr  437-UAR          74            ARE           Population I                             --       5.0          --
Cr  484-UAR          74            ARE           Talkha Fertilizer                        --      20.0         0.3
Cr  524-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                           --      35.0         0.3
Ln 1062-EGT          75            ARE          Ag/Ind. Imports                         35.0        --         0.4
Ln 1064-EGT          75             SCA          Suez Canal Rehabilitation              50.0        --        17.2
Ln 1085-EGT          75            ARE           Tourah Cement                          40.0        --         2.8
Ln 1098-EGT          75            ER            Railways II                            37.0        --         8.6
Cr  548-EGT          75            ARE          Telecommunications I                      --      30.0         1.7
Cr  576-EGT          76            ARE          Development Industrial Bank II 1/         --      25.0         0.5
Ln 1239-EGT          76            APA          Alexandria Port                         45.0        --        29.5
Ln 1276-T-EGT 2/    76             ARE          Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0        --        36.8
Cr  637-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --      40.0        21.1
Ln 1285-EGT          76            ARE          Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0        --        10.0
Ln 1292-EGT          76            ARE          Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0        --        27.2
Ln 1369-EGT          77            AWA          Alexandria Water Supply                 56.0        --        39.2
Cr  681-EGT          77            ARE          Education I                               --      25.0         4.9
Cr  719-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                    --      27.0        11.8
Ln 1439-EGT          77            ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0        --        27.0
Ln 1440-T-EGT 2/    77             ARE          Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0        --        12.0
Ln 1453-EGT          77            EEA          Regional Electrification                48.0        --        27.4
Ln 1456-EGT          77            ARE          Industrial Imports                      70.0        --        33.8
Ln S-005-EGT         77            ARE           Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.         2.5        --         0.8
Ln 1482-EGT          78            SCA          Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0        --        34.2
Cr S-20-EGT          78            ARE          Water Supply Engineering                  --       2.0         0.2
Cr  774-EGT          78            ARE          Telecommunications II                     --      53.0        52.5
Ln 1533-EGT          78            DIB          Development Industrial Bank III         40.0        --        22.6
Cr  830-EGT          78            ARE          Agricultural Development                  --      32.0        31.9
Cr  831-EGT          78            ARE          Urban Development                         --      14.0        13.7
Cr  850-EGT          79            ARE          Population II                             --      25.0        24.0
Cr  868-EGT          79            ARE          Education II                              --      40.0        38.0
Ln  S-14-EGT         79            ARE          New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance.            11.0        --         3.6
Cr  909-EGT          79            ARE          Tourism                                   --      32.5        32.5
Ln 1732-EGT          79            ARE           Gulf of Suez Gas                       75.0        --        68.5
Cr  935-EGT          79            ARE           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power         --      37.0        37.0
Ln 1733-EGT          79            EEA           Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 4/102.0           --       102.0
Cr  988-EGT          80            ARE          Agroindustries                            --      45.0        45.0
Ln 1804-EGT          80            DIB           Development Industrial Bank IV         50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1837-EGT          80            ARE          Textiles II                             69.0        --        69.0
Ln 1842-EGT          80            ARE          MIDB                                    30.0        --        30.0
Cr 1024-EGT          80            ARE          Cairo Gas Distribution                    --      50.0        50.0
Ln 1849-EGT          80            ARE          Pulp and Paper                          50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1886-EGT          80            EEA          Power III 3/                             7.0        --         7.0
Cr 1052-EGT          80            EEA          Power III 3/                              --    120.0       120.0
Totals                                                                                1125.0    783.0      1202.6
Of which has been repaid                                                                61.4
Total now outstanding                                                                 1063.6
Amount sold                                                    7.5
Of which has been repaid                                       7.4                       0.1
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                        1063.5    783.0
1/ Formerly Bank of Alexandria
2/ Third Window Loan
3/ Not yet signed
4/ Not included is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0



- 29-                                ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(July 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ million)
Year        Obligor                  Type of Business                            Loan        Equity        Total
1976        Arab Ceramic Company   Ceramic Industry                              4.80         .835         5.635
1977        Nile Clothing Company  Ready-Made Garment Industry                   0.43        0.16          0.59
1978        Delta Sugar Company    Agricultural Production, mainly
sugar                                   20.0         3.00         23.0
1979         Ismailia Misr Poultry  Food and Food Processing                     5.97        1.52          7.49
Company
1979         Ismailia Fish Farming  Food and Food Processing                     1.93         .55          2.48
Company
1980        Suez Cement Company    Building Materials                           30.0           -         30.0
63.13       6.065         69.195



- 30 -                          ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 181-UAR - Nile Delta Drainage I Project; US$26 million Credit
of April 17, 1970; Effectiveness Date: December 22, 1970; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The only outstanding activity on this project is installation of
field drainage, which remains to be accomplished on about 5 percent of the
project area of 950,000 feddans. Progress on this activity is now satisfactory.
Work is complete on other major components including some 1,700 km surface
drains and eleven pumping stations. The Drainage Authority expects to
achieve full completion of the project ending December 1980.
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973: Effectiveness Date:  November 28. 1973; Closing Date:  July 31,
1981.
Work is nearly complete on some 1,640 km surface drains in 300,000
feddan project area. Of the five pumping stations, one is operational and
two are almost ready for testing. Work on the remaining two is about 75
percent complete. Installation of tile drains is about 61 percent complete.
Progress on this activity is slow because of inadequate management by con-
tractors and physical difficulties arising from sugarcane which occupies in
the cropping pattern some 50 percent of the area. Bilharzia Control Program
is proceeding as scheduled. Progress on procurement is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton GinninR Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous substan-
tial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have been overcome.
Cr. No. 484-UAR - Talkha II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million Credit of June
24. 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 22, 1975; Closing Date: April 1, 1980.
Project is nearing mechanical completion; procurement has been
completed. According to the latest indication, the project is expected to be
commissioned by the fall of 1980, about two years behind schedule, partly
because of delays in civil works and procurement. Final payment of the
remaining undisbursed balance of about $11,000 is being processed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                           ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 524-EGT and Ln. No. 1062-EGT - Agricultural and Industrial Imports
Project; US$35 million Credit and US$35 million Loan of December 20, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: March 19. 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The bulk of the procurement actions has been completed and only
about $0.4 million and $1.2 million remain to be disbursed under the credit
and loan, respectively. Discussions are presently taking place with the
Government regarding the utilization of the uncommitted funds prior to the
closing date which has been extended by one year.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project: US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items are
lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the project
have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected to exceed
appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975: Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Procurement of machinery and equipment is completed. Most items are
already on site being erected. Slow civil works execution has further delayed
project execution. Thus start-up of commercial operations is expected to be
only towards early 1981.
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of locomotives
and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is also behind
schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock maintenance
with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate companies with
overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions. The 1980-84 draft
investment program contains many large investments including new lines for
which no economic justification has been demonstrated. The financial situation
is poor and a deficit of LE 38 million was recorded for 1979. After many
years without tariff increases, substantial increases in freight tariffs were
made in 1979, and passenger fare increases are promised for 1980. A draft
decree which would establish a National Railway authority and aims to give the
railways inter alia considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and
staff salaries is under discussion.



- 32 -                           ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 548-EGT - Telecommunications Project; US$30 million Credit of May 16,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Procurement has now been completed and the IDA credit has been
fully committed. Procurement of the telex exchanges was transferred to
the Telecommunications II project. Physical installations are about two
years behind the appraisal schedule mainly because of initial delays in
procurement actions and in building construction.
Cr. No. 576-EGT - Second Development Industrial Bank (formerly Bank of
Alexandria) Prolect; US$25 million Credit of July 30, 1975; Effectiveness
Date: February 19, 1976; Closing Date: April 30, 1981.
The credit is now fully committed and $24.5 million has been dis-
bursed as of July 31, 1980.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
contract is proceeding reasonably well although other civil works are behind
schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing satisfactorily although
the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is behind schedule. Estimated
final cost remains within appraisal estimates. Because of the delayed start
of the main civil works, the project is now expected to be completed only by
June 1982; the closing date of the loan will, therefore, have to be extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. Work on the drainage and irrigation components of the project is
proceeding and a large contract has recently been awarded. The seed component
has major problems, which the Bank has been discussing with Egyptian officials
to agree on revised modes of management. The Agricultural Development Lending
Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World Bank, to
ensure that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their respective investments,
and to identify additional sub-borrowers. The project scope has been expanded
to allow financing of agroindustries subprojects, and terms of financing
liberalized.
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976. Effectiveness
Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Work is progressing in accordance with the revised schedule on some
1,602 km of surface drains in 500,000 feddans. Overall progress is about
55 percent. As compared to appraisal target of 240,000 feddans, field drainage
is complete on only about 24,000 feddans. This shortfall has resulted from a
delay of almost two years with supply and erection of USAID financed equipment
for three PVC pipe-making factories. As these factories are now nearing
production, the work of installing tile drains will be accelerated. Contracts
for the same have already been awarded covering the entire project area.



- 33-                           ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Prolect; US$52 million Loan of September 20, 1976.
Effectiveness Date:  February 16, 1977; Closing Date:  March 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years caused
by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works, shortage of
steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of one of the two
beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost about US$20 mil-
lion equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised, due to increased
scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction materials beyond
what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are foreseen in financing
this, although some government equity contribution would be required in the
next two years to supplement the companies' internal cash generation in order
to adhere to the financial covenants as well as project costs. Early management
problems have now been overcome and both companies have developed effective
project implementation units. Disbursements are slower than anticipated
reflecting initial delays in procurement. However, about 90 percent of the
contracts for machinery and equipment have now been awarded and the balance is
expected to be awarded in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6. 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works construc-
tion of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work is expected
to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts have been
completed and awards made to four contractors; these contracts are now being
financed with local funds. Satisfactory progress is being made on meter
replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly submitted reports
reflect good general progress. An application for a general tariff increase
is with the Governor for consideration by the Alexandria Local Council but
approval is still pending.
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Virtually all technical assis-
tance has been completed. About 90 percent of all equipment has been procured
and nearly all has been installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed
17 are completed and are operational, 5 will be operational by October and the
other by December 1980. All of the existing institutions being re-equipped
are operational. About 80 percent of Credit amount has been disbursed and
nearly all of the remainder has been committed.



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440T-EGT - Nile Delta Drainage
II Project; US$27 Million Credit, US$27 Million Loan and US$12 Million Third
Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983.
Progress on surface drains is satisfactory with completion achieved
in some 240,000 feddans out of total area of 815,000 feddans. For construction
of four new and renovation of two existing pumping stations, the contractors
have started civil works and procurement of equipment following award of
contracts in December 1979. The Bank has cleared the award of four contracts
for installation of field drainage covering 75 percent of the project area of
400,000 feddans. Tender documents for a KfW financed PVC pipe making factory
to be establised in the project area are being finalized. As compared to
appraisal estimates, there will be one year's delay in establishing this
factory, completion of field drainage will be delayed accordingly.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT - Regional Electrification Project; US$48 Million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6. 1978: Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies have been engaged. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project; US$70 Million Loan of July 15,
1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
As of July 31, 1980, about $36.2 million had been disbursed and
about $50.7 million committed, representing some 55 percent of the total loan.
Utilization of the loan proceeds has been slow mainly because of delays in
procurement of equipment for public sector firms.
Ln No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project: US$2.5 Million
Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Consultants preparing both iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
studies have submitted the final feasibility studies. The closing date was
extended to help finance consulting services to help prepare a rehabilitation
and balancing project for Egyptian Iron and Steel Company.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 Million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs there has been
some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been taken.
The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal traffic continues
at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is higher than appraisal
estimates.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Ln No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 Million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
As of July 31, 1980, $17.4 million had been disbursed and $36.9 million had
been committed. The balance of the Loan is expected to be committed by
September 1980.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project: US$53 Million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Some reallocation of Credit proceeds was agreed to in September
1979. Bid documents for a substantial part of the equipment and materials to
be financed under the Credit had been processed by January 1980, and the rest
are expected by September 1980.
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 Million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979: Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Implementation is about a year behind appraisal schedule. Satisfac-
tory progress has now been made in the procurement of tractors, project-related
training, monitoring and evaluation, and field preparation for implementation.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 Million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
There has been significant progress in the staffing of the project
unit, although its management still needs strengthening. Actions on implemen-
tation of physical works and studies have been started in accordance with an
agreed schedule of tasks prepared in consultation with IDA staff.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 Million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and construction
on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Implementation of the training program
has started, while IEC implementation has had a slow start-up, and about 40%
of the home visiting program has been implemented.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18. 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984.
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23 insti-
tutions to be constructed, two are completed, eight will be completed by
mid-1981, 10 will be completed in late 1981 and the three MOHE institutes are
expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All equipment is under
procurement with contracts already signed for about 50 percent. All technical
assistance has been contracted and implementation is about 9 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 Million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 19,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and erec-
tion has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock are being
carried out.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 Million of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
Project implementation has started.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 Million of June 29, 1979;
Effectiveness Date:  January 29, 1980; Closing Date:  September 30, 1982.
Project implementation is in progress. The onshore contract has
been signed and the contractor is mobilizing. Of the three studies included
under the project, two--the exploration and the energy pricing studies--are
under way. The financial management study is to be commissioned by
September 1980.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and Special
Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power
Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bidding documents for electro-mechanical equipment are under prepara-
tion and likely to be issued by late 1980.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agro-Industries Project; US$45 million Credit of
May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31. 1985.
Action on effectiveness is underway.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project: US$50 million
Loan of May 1. 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8. 1980; Closing Date:
December 31. 1984.
Commitments under the loan have just begun.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4. 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective): Closing Date: September 30, 1984.
Effectiveness action underway.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 millicn Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1985;
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4. 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
Effectiveness action underway.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare               11 months
the project:                                       (Jan. 1979 - Nov. 1979)
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:               Ministries of Agriculture,
Industry and Mineral
Resources, and Social
Affairs
Universities of Assiut
and Cairo.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank,
and date of the first Bank mission to
consider the project:                              January 1979
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:            November 25, 1979
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                July 25, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     March 2, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
1.   Conditions of disbursement against the Credit for the components relating
to the Assiut and Cairo Universities are:
Government would conclude arrangements under which SDRs 2.4 million
(US$3.2 million equivalent) and SDRs 5.8 million (US$7.7 million
equivalent) respectively, of the Credit proceeds would be made available
to the Universities for implementation of their respective components
(paras. 59, 72).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   Other special conditions are:
(i) Student density would not exceed 60 in the larger and 40 in the
medium-sized science laboratories of the University of Assiut,
and student:teacher ratios satisfactory to the Association and the
University would be maintained in the laboratories (para. 53); and
(ii)  Qualified educational/training institutions would be contracted
by March 31, 1981 to provide both the specialists and the fellowship
training included in the technical assistance program, and the
technical assistance program would be implemented substantially as
scheduled (para. 58).



MED/TERRA NEAN    BEA                                              ----  e nl34'
-,      Soenia   Deranli                El F    o         ueroum-
q     t{o /e0 uf,                                                                                                                                                                                          3  i, Xtiubm
El ii'   i A F                         a g
-28'
ARAB  REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
-26-
N NeVolonTnm nig Cortors -MOIMR (t 
N                rV-t,,a Tr-ng Centers- MOIMR
New  adtl IManagement Traiig Centes -MOIMR
     Multipurpose 2nod Manigenneo Iroiinrg Centers -MOA O                                                                          \ 
F Former Troing Cen-tr, Poultry- MOA                                     EI Khourse\
A     Netiorel Veterinn- y fetene-on Traiig Center-MOA   \o
Ferm  Meo,narieatie Traring Cert-ns MOA
e     Intormatio  Repruduotion Center-MOA
A     Ha-dioroft Skills Traing C-nters-MOSA
0      Skills Tinning Centers fon Handisopped-MOSA
A     ILetruot  Tr-ang Center fon Women-MOSA
     Uiuerslty af Cairn
iunlreity of Ass,,tY                                                                                                                              Al N.-, C,,
Man mands
Railways-
-24     App-o-imrtn goernorte boundrie                                                                                                 A AN DA
-24                ~~~~~~~-_    _letenractronal boundarien                                                                                                      ooa,    
T JR K E EY                                                             no9                                       Iere o        00 40  f     0 o   0   iOU
IRAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
40           2 IRA   I R A N                                                                            M'ls 0                                                      t0 4 0
0ARA3 REU               SAUDI  ARABIA
I   EGYPr                                           -_. 
S I/   N                                          e1smip ar eoenueernonaon       nerrfrreihriu: nxG  mnYiauu s oennhdnooeon,n  -f lf -R  N~~ 
r  s u D f /   <                              ; tensina ntuuu Osnana,    - --ltrKares tiWrdsEns                    m



