OCIALT    CREDIT NUMBER 1069 EGT
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Third Education Project)
among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
UNIVERSITY OF ASSIUT
and
UNIVERSITY OF CAIRO
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1069 EGT
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        N                 77   , 1980, among
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association), UNIVERSITY OF ASSIUT and UNIVERSITY OF CAIRO (here-
inafter called singly by their respective full names and sometimes
collectively the Universities).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty million and three hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 30,300,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that the Universities agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Universities, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall
carry out, respectively, Part D and Part E of the Project des-
cribed in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and educational practices.


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Universities in carrying
out Parts D.2 and E.2 of the Project, the Universities shall,
not later than March 31, 1981 (or such later date as the Associ-
ation and the Universities may agree), enter into agreements with
qualified educational institutions, or make other appropriate
arrangements, for the purpose of providing the Universities with
the services of consultants and specialists and with fellowship
programs; and such agreements or arrangements providing the
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be satisfactory to the Association and the
Universities and provide the Universities with: (i) services of
consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion and the Universities; and (ii) fellowship programs whose
placement, curricula and other terms of reference shall be
satisfactory to the Association and the Universities.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; it being specified
that the expression "Borrower" shall be deemed to refer to the
University of Assiut or the University of Cairo, as the case may
be, whenever either of such universities shall be required to take
any action pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Universities undertakes to
insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such University
to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the
Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall cause all goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to
them by the Borrower to be used exclusively for Parts D and
E of the Project, respectively.
Section 2.05. (a) The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall
furnish to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
specifications, reports, contract documents and procurement
schedules for Parts D and E of the Project, respectively, and any


﻿-3-
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Universities of Assiut and Cairo: (i) shall maintain
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress
of Parts D and E of the Project, respectively, (including their
cost and the benefits to be derived therefrom), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in Parts D and E of the Project, respective-
ly; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives
to visit the facilities included in Parts D and E of the Project,
respectively, and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning Parts D and E of the Project, respectively, their cost
and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the
expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of Parts D and E of the
Project, but in any event not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower, the Universities and the Association, the
Universities shall, in conjunction with the Borrower, prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of Parts D and E of the Project, their
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the
performance by the Universities and the Association of their
respective obligations under this Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) Each of the Universities shall enable the Association's
representatives to examine all its works, buildings, property and
equipment and any relevant records and documents.
.Section 2.06. (a) The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall,
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Asso-
ciation with regard to the progress of Parts D and E of the
Project, respectively, the performance of their respective obliga-
tions under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall promptly
inform the Association of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts D and E of the
Project, respectively, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Universities of their respective
obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall
assign experienced staff and support personnel for the purposes of
supervising the implementation of Parts D and E of the Project,
respectively.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall
maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of Parts D and E of the Project, respectively.
Section 3.02. (a) The Universities of Assiut and Cairo shall
at all times: (i) operate the institutions included in Parts D and
E of the Project, respectively, in accordance with appropriate
administrative and educational policies and practices and with due
regard to economy; and (ii) cause said institutions to be staffed
with qualified teachers and administrators in adequate numbers.
(b) The Universities shall at all times cause the equipment
of said institutions to be adequately maintained and all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof properly to be made.
Section 3.03. Without any limitation upon the generality of
the provisions of Section 3.02 (a) hereof, the University of
Assiut shall at all times ensure that: (i) student densities of
60 and 40, respectively, be adhered to in its large and medium-
sized laboratories; and (ii) student/teacher ratios therein be
satisfactory to the Association and the University of Assiut.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-5-
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and the Universities thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twelve years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Universities of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For the University of Assiut:
University of Assiut
Assiut
Arab Republic of Egypt
For the University of Cairo:
University of Cairo
Orman
Giza
Arab Republic of Egypt
Telex:
92741 CAI-MIT-UN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Universities, or on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by their respective Presidents or such other person or
persons as the Universities shall designate in writing, and the
Universities shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District


﻿-7-
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  3/-1
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
UNIVERSITY OF ASSIUT
By
Authorized Representative
UNIVERSITY OF CAIRO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of      M   ,
198   .
FOR SECRETARY


