FICIAL  <-  CREDIT NUMBER 1069 EGT
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Education Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   ,L 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1069 EGT
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     /7I A      4Q,C7        , 1980, between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) Parts D and E of the Project will be carried out by the
Universities of Assiut and Cairo, respectively, (hereinafter
called singly by their respective full names and sometimes collec-
tively the Universities) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Universities a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as herein-
after provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between, on the one hand, the
Association and, on the other hand, the Universities;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between, on the
one hand, the Association and, on the other hand, the Universities
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time.
(b) "MOIMR" means the Eorrower's ministry responsible for
industry and mineral resources.
(c) "MOA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
agriculture.
(d) "MOSA" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
social affairs.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 30,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association sdall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associ-
ation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1991, and ending Septem-
ber 15, 2030, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The following officials of the Borrower and
the respective Presidents of the Universities or their authorized
representatives are designated as representatives of the Borrower
for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions:
(a) the Minister of Industry and Mineral Resources with
respect to expenditures under Category (1);
(b) the Minister of Agriculture with respect to expenditures
under Category (2);
(c) the Minister of Social Affairs with respect to expendi-
tures under Category (3);
(d) the President of the University of Assiut with respect
to expenditures under Category (4); and
(e) the President of the University of Cairo with respect to
expenditures under Category (5);
all said Categories being in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts A, B and
C of the Project through MOIMR, MOA and MOSA, respectively, with


﻿-4-
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, engineering, financial, architectural and educa-
tional practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without any limitation or, restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause the Universities to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Universities
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(c) The Borrower shall, out of the proceeds of the Credit,
make available to the Universities of Assiut and Cairo amounts in
various currencies as may be respectively allocated to Categories
(4) and (5) of Schedule 1 hereto, under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A.4, B.5 and C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall
not later than March 31, 1981 (or such later date as the Borrower
and the Association may gree), enter into agreements with quali-
fied educational institutions, or make other appropriate arrange-
ments, for the purpose of providing the Borrower with the services
of consultants and specialists and with fellowship programs; and
such agreements or arrangements providing the technical assistance
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be satis-
factory to the Borrower and the Association and provide the
Borrower with: (i) services of consultants and experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and
(ii) fellowship programs whose placement, curricula and other
terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Brrrower and the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
for Parts A, B and C of the Project to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or


﻿-5-
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services for Parts A, B and
C of the Project financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for Parts A, B and C of the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A, B and
C of the Project (including their cost and the benefits to be
derived therefrom), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
Parts A, B and C of the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in Parts A, B and C of the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning Parts
A, B and C of the Project, their costs and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Association and the Universities, the Borrower shall, in
conjunction with the Universities, prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and the Universities of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction (and operation) of the facilities
included in Parts A and B of the Project and shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence
satisfactory to the Association that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to Parts A and
B of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that MOA, MOIMR
and MOSA shall each assign experienced staff and support personnel
for the purpose of supervising the implementation of the Project
except for Parts D and E thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A, B and C of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out Parts A, B and C of the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) operate the insti-
tutions included in Parts A, B and C of the Project in accordance
with appropriate administrative and educational policies and
practices and with due regard to economy; and (ii) cause said
institutions to be staffed with qualified teachers and adminis-
trators in adequate numbers.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture
and equipment of said institutions to be adequately maintained and
shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof properly to
be made.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that:


﻿-7-
(a) The Universities shall have failed to perform any of
their res,ective covenants, agreements or obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(b) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Universities will be able to perform
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c) Any law, decree or regulation establishing the Univer-
sities or governing their activities shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the ability of the Universities
to carry out their respective covenants, agreements and obliga-
tions set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of the Universities or for the suspension of their respective
operations.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that:
(a) The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and the Universities.
(b) Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Universities, and is
legally binding upon the Universities in accordance with its
terms.


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. The date                U           is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article
IV of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twelve
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation or the Under Secretary of State for Interna-
tional Finance o' the Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade and
Economic Cooperation of the Borrower is designated as representa-
tive of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministry of Economy, Foreign       GAFEC 348
Trade and Economic            Cairo
Cooperation
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                                  440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                         248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By              C{i    Regional Vice President
Europe, Mid le East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) MOIMR
(A) Works                     2,150,000          30%
(B) Goods                     8,490,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory for
goods locally
manufactured
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other goods
locally procured
(C) Fellowships and             680,000          100% of foreign
Consultants'                                expenditures for
services                                    fellowships and
services by con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
the territory
of the Borrower
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other consul-
tants


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(2) M0A
(A) Works                         590,000         30%
(B) Goods                       2,050,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory for
goods locally
manufactured
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other goods
locally procured
(C) Fellowships and             1,130,000         100% of foreign
Consultants'                                 expenditures for
services                                     fellowships and
services by con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
the territory
of the Borrower
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other consul-
tants
(3) MOSA
(A) Goods                       4,250,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory for
goods locally
manufactured
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other goods
locally procured


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(B) Fellowships and               350,000         100% of foreign
Consultants'                                 expenditures for
services                                     fellowships and
services by con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
the territory
of the Borrower
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other consul-
tants
(4) University of Assiut
(A) Goods                        2,050,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory for
goods locally
manufactured
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other goods
locally procured
(B) Fellowships and                360,000        100% of foreign
Consultants'                                 expenditures for
services                                     fellowships and
services by con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
the territory
of the Borrower
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other consul-
tants


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) University of Cairo
(A) Goods                      4,830,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory for
goods locally
manufactured
and 80% of local
expenditures
for other goods
locally procured
(B) Fellowships and              980,000         100% of foreign
Consultants'                                expenditures for
services                                    fellowships and
services by con-
sultants domi-
ciled outside
the territory
of the Borrower
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other consul-
tants
(6) Unallocated                2,390,000
TOTAL           30,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above:
(a) no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   no withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made
for expenditures to be financed under Category (4), or under
Category (5), until such time as the corresponding arrangement
referred to in Section 3.01 (c) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have been concluded and shall have become in full force
and effect and the Association has been furnished with evidence
thereof satisfactory to the Association.
2 Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Sub-Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Sub-Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Sub-Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Credit which are then allocated to another Sub-Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Sub-Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 15 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
reatricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion.'s reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project aims at assisting the Borrower in:
(a) expanding, diversifying and upgrading the training
of skilled and semi-skilled workers;
(b) increasing and/or upgrading the training of farmers and
the personnel of agricultural support services;
(c) increasing and upgrading management training in the
industrial and agricultural sectors;
(d) expanding educational and training opportunities for
the urban poor;
(e) increasing and upgrading the training of secondary math
and science teachers; and
(f) upgrading university agricultural and health sciences
instruction, and promoting university in-service staff develop-
ment.
To that end, the Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   MOIMR
1.   Construction and equipping of vocational training and indus-
trial management training centers, as set forth in the Annex
to this Schedule.
2.   Replacement of equipment for existing vocational training
centers, as set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
3.   Provision of mobile training units, as set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
4.        (a) Training in Egypt of the personnel of the institutions
and facilities referred to above in use and maintenance
of instructional equipment, improving the teaching
methodology of technical skills, curriculum development
and developing and improving industrial management
training, all through the provision of about 56 man-
months of consultants' services; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) training abroad of about 60 selected faculty and
administrative personnel of the institutions and facili-
ties referred to above in teaching, administrative and
technical skills, all through the provision of fellow-
ships abroad representinLg about 204 man-months.
Part B:   MOA
1.   Construction and equipping of multipurpose and management
training, and poultry training centers, as set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
2.   Equipping of the existing veterinary extension and farm
mechanization training centers, as set forth in the Annex to
this Schedule.
3.   Provision of mobile training units, as set forth in the
Annex to this Schedule.
4.   Equipping of the existing agricultural information reproduc-
tion center, as set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.
5.   (a) Training in Egypt of the personnel of the institutions
and facilities referred to above in use and maintenance
of instructional equipment, improving the methodology of
technical skills training and of agricultural extension
teacher training, developing and improving agricultural
management training, and improving farmer training,
all through the provision of about 138 man-months of
consultants' services; and
(b) training abroad of about 93 selected faculty and
administrative personnel of the institutions and facili-
ties referred to above in teaching, administrative and
technical skills, all through the provision of fellow-
ships abroad representing about 192 man-months.
Part.C:   MOSA
1.   Equipping of, and/or replacement of equipment for, the
existing handicraft skills training centers, skills training
centers for handicapped and an instructor training center
for women, as set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.


﻿- 18 -
2.   (a) Training in Egypt of the personnel of the institutions
and facilities referred to above in use and maintenance
of instructional equipment, improving the methodology of
handicraft skills training and upgrading artisan skills,
all through the provision of about 16 man-months of
consultants' services; and
(b) training abroad of about 51 selected faculty and
administrative personnel of the institutions and facili-
ties referred to above in teaching, administrative and
artisan skills, all through the provision of fellowships
abroad representing about 147 man-months.
Part D:   University of Assiut
1.   Replacement of equipment for the existing faculties of
education, math and sciences, as set forth in the Annex
to this Schedule.
2.   Training abroad of about 47 selected faculty and administra-
tive personnel of the institutions and facilities referred to
above in teaching and administrative skills, all through the
provision of fellowships abroad representing about 220
man-months.
Part E:   University of Cairo
1.   Equipping of the existing health sciences learning resource
center, the faculty of agriculture, and the department
for faculty training and curriculum development, as set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule.
2.   (a) Training in Egypt of the personnel of the institutions
and facilities referred to above in use and maintenance
of instructional equipment, improving the curricula and
course syllabi and improving university instructional
technology, all through the provision of about 47
man-months of consultants' services; and
(b) training abroad of about 116 selected faculty and
administrative personnel of the institutions and facili-
ties referred to above in teaching, and administrative
skills, all through the provision of fellowships
abroad representing about 366 man-months.


﻿191
- 19 -
General Provisions
1.   The Annex to this Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
2.   The Project is expected to be completed by October 31,
1984.


﻿- 20 -
Annex to Schedule 2
List of                 Capacity by
Institutions              Student Places           Location
Total     New
(1) MOIMR
New Centers
5    New Vocation Training   3,500     3,500     El-Arish, Kafr
Centers:                                    El-Sheikh, Minia,
Menoufiya,
Sharkiya
2    Industrial Management     320       320     Cairo,
Training Centers:                           Alexandria
6    Mobile Training Units     120       120
Existing Centers
11   Vocational Training     3,820     1,800     Qena (2), Assiut
Centers:                                    (2), Aswan,
Damietta,
Alexandria (2),
Cairo, Kafr El-
Zayat, Port Said
(2) MOA
New Centers
3    Multipurpose and          240       240     Menoufiya, Sohag,
Management Train-                           Ismailia
ing Centers
1    Farmer Training            50        50     Cairo
Center-Poultry:
8    Mobile Training           160       160
Units


﻿- 21 -
Annex to Schedule 2
List of                 Capacity by
Institutions              Student Places           Location
Total     New
Existing Centers
1    National Veterinary        40         -     Sers El-Lian
Extension Training                          (Menoufiya)
Center
2    Farm Mechanization        250         -     Barrage, Kafr
Training Centers:                           El-Sheikh
1    Information Repro-                    -     Cairo
duction Center
(3) MOSA
Existing Centers
15   Handicraft Skills       2,250         -     Alexandria (3),
Training Centers:                           Aswan, Cairo (3),
Shebin, Tala,
Zagazig, Edko
(Beheira), Luxor,
Ismailia, Faraskour
(Damietta), Sohag
5    Skills Training         2,200         -     Cairo (5)
Centers for
Handicapped:
1    Instructor Training       100         -     Cairo
Center for Women:
(4) University of Assiut
Existing Faculties
Secondary Teacher       3,600         -     Assiut (Assiut
Training-Math and                           and Sohag Cam-
Science                                     puses)


﻿- 22 -
Annex to Schedule 2
List of                 Capacity by
Institutions              Student Places           Location
Total     New
(5) University of Cairo
Existing Facilities
In-Service Staff            -         -     Cairo
Development
Health Sciences             -         -     Cairo
Learning Resources
Center
Faculty of              5,000         -     Cairo
Agriculture


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped within
each Ministry of the Borrower and each of the Universities in bid
packages estimated to cost more than $100,000 equivalent each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 24 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Egypt may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Egypt if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in Egypt equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Grou_B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 25 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(a) Individual contracts for goods estimated to cost
$100,000 equivalent or less, and contracts for goods (irrespective
of their individual cost) for which the Association shall agree
with the Borrower that international competitive bidding is
unsuitable, may be awarded on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Association, provided, however, that the aggre-
gate cost of contracts so awarded by either MOIMR or MOA or MOSA
or by either of the Universities, shall not exceed 10% of the
total cost of goods procured by the ministry or the university
concerned and financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
provided further that the aggregate cost of all contracts so
awarded by MOIMR, MOA, MOSA and the Universities shall not exceed
$3,500,000 equivalent.
(b) All contracts for civil works (irrespective of their
individual cost) may be awarded on the basis of local procedures
acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, furniture and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid, design drawings, furniture and equipment lists and de-
tailed specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 26 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor, The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of       * ,
198 O
FOR SECRETARY


