Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
LAd. 2s39- A)J
RepNo. P-3624YIJ
REPORT AND 1EO N
OF THE
PESIDENT OF THE
INTERN. IONAL BANK EO  RECONDSTRUCtION AD DEVELOPMT
TO THE
EIECCVITE DIRECTORS
ON TWO
PROPOSED LOANS
IN AN AMDUNT EQUIVALENT TO US $70 HILLION
TO
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BAIKA PRISTNA AND
IvESTlICIONA BANKA TITOGRAD - UDRUZENA BANKA
WI  THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
*                              SEVET  INDUSTRIAL CRDIT PROJECT
June 29, 1983
[ This docment bas a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their olficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World DBak autoriatoc.



CURRENCY-EQUIVALENTS
Currency Uoit 1/         Calendar- 1982  /   June 15. 1983
US$1                    Dinar 51.32        Dinar 86.82
Diner 1                US$0.019            US$0.012
Dinar 1,000,000         US$19,485.58       US$11,518.08
.
YUGOSLAVIA: --FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GWOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL                 Basic Orzanization of Associated Labor
IBT                  Investiciona lanka Titograd Udruzena Banka
IC                  Industrial Credit
KBP                  Udruzena Rosovska Banka Pristina
LDR                  Less Developed Regions
hDk                  bore Developed Regions
PBS                  Privredna Banka Sarajevo
SBS                  Stopauska Banks Skopje
SDK                  Social Accounting Service
GHP                  Gross Material Product
1/ The diner has not been maintained within announced margins since
July 12, 1973. Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance
of external competitiveness.
2/ Period Average.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans and Project Summary
Borrovers;            Udruzena Kosovska BaiLka Pristina
Investiciona Banka Titograd - Udruzena Banka
(Each Borrower being a party to a separate Loan
Agreement with the Bank).
Guarantor;            Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Amounts:                          US$ million equivalent
KBP     45 (both including capitalized
IBT     25      front end fee)
Terms:                    The loans will bear interest at the standard
variable rate. Repayment would be according to
schedules reflecting the composite amortization
schedules of the subloans financed. Allowing up to
three years for commitment of individual subloans
and a maximum repayment period of 15 years, the two
Bank loans would thus be repaid in 18 years. The
technical assistance component ($670,000) will be
repaid in 18 yaars including three years' grace
period.
Project Description;      The pr ject is designed to assist labor intensive
and export oriented industries through the provision
of foreign exchange. Besides, the project involves
preparation of studies to identify and develop
projects in labor intensive and export oriented
industries in order to help KBP and IBT increase
their future role in the promotion of such
industries. The aggregate direct em;loyment
creation is expected to be about l0,OXG jobs.
Other objectives of the project are to contribute to
the institution building of the borrowing banks, and
to encourage joint ventures and cofinancing. The
project also includes a technical assistance
component of $6,0,000 ($400,000 for KBP and $270,000
for IBT), for preparation of above-mentioned
TIs doumn ha a _ nrce eistri nbuto an may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
studies, staff training, and procurement of office
equipment.  The risks associated with the loans
relate to meeting the employment and export targets
by beneficiary enterprises. However, provisions
included under the loans and Yugoslavia's policies
to foster industrial exports should reduce the risk
to within acceptable limits.
.
Lstimated Disbursements:  1984      1985      1986   1987    1988       1989
(Bank FY)                            (US$ million)
KBP Loan
Annual                1.4     11.2     15.6   10.3      4.9       1.6
Cumulative            1.4     12.6     28.2   38.5    43.4       45.0
IBT Loan
Annual                0.8      6.3      8.8    5.8      2.8       0.5
Cumulative           0.8       7.1     15.9   21.7    24.5       25.0
Rate ot keturn:  Not applicable
btaff Appraisal Report:  Report Number 4301-YU, dated tay 23, 1983
EhENA Projects Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPOkT AND RECOMhENDATION OF THE PRESIDENI OF THE IBRD
10 TIE EXECUTIVE DIRECIORS ON TWO PROPOSED LOANS
ONE EACH 10 UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
AND INVESIlCIONA BANKA TIIOGRAD - UDRUZERA BANKA
WIlh IhE GUARAIiTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGO5LAVIA
FOR A SEVENTH INDUSTRL&L CREDIT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on two proposed
loans tor the equivalent of US$70 million (including capitalized front-end
fee), to Udruzena kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) ($45 million) and
Investiciona Banka Titograd - Udruzena Banka (IBT) ($25 million) to help
finance the foreign exchange cost of investments in labor intensive and
export oriented industries.  The loans also include a technical assistance
component tor the preparation of studies to identify projects in labor
intensive and export oriented industries as well as for training and
procurement of office equipment.  The loans would bear interest at the
standara variable rate.  Repayment would be according to schedules reflecting
the composite amortization schedules of the sub-loans financed. Allowing
three years tor commitment of individual sub-loans and a maximum repayment
period of 15 years, the two Bank loans would thus be repaid in 18 years. The
technical assistance component ($670,000) will be repaid in 18 years
incluaing three years' grace period.
PART I - THE ECONObY 1/
2.       An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in June 1981 and its report
Yugoslavia; Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU) was
distributed to the Executive Directors ou November 2, 1982. Basic data on
the economy are given in Annex I.
A. Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises ana public institutions, plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accouints for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector predominantly consists of peasant
farms ana small enterprises.  Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. Responsibility for
important social ana economic decisions has increasingly shifted from the
federal level to the republics, autonomous provinces and communes.
Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives over production decisions
has been increased by a restructuring of all economic organizations into
legally autonomous Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are
the smallest units producing a marketable output.
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
President's keport for the Sixth Railway Project scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors on July 19, 1983.



4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments, called social
compacts and self-management agreements, enable the participation of all
economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy, while
maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. These
instruments are used to supplement more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision-making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish, through a set of social compacts, a national consensus on the
major mediumrterm goals for the economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is
based on participation of all economic and social units, including
government bodies. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into
medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In
case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, state bodies at
the relevant level are permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary
basis.
B.  Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US12,790 at 1981
markeft prices. 1/ The past three decades have also witnessed the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981
merchandise exports and imports grew by around 62 and 81 per annum in real
terms, respectively. However, Yugoslavia's export performance to the
industrial market economies has showed increasing weakness over the past
decade, particularly since 1973.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita output, and the AuLonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference in
per capita output between the most developed region in the country,
Slovenia, and the least developed, Kosovo, is 6 to 1. These diiparities
reflect several factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity
agriculture in the LDR, their higher dependency ratios and their higher
population growth rates, which averaged 1.2% annually during 1971-81.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



Since 1965 concessionary investment credits have been granted to the LDR
through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the Less
Developed Regions. In addition, the Federal budget provides supplementary
resources for social sector expenditures in the LDR. Together, these
resources account for about 10% of the social product of the LDR.
8.       Since 1954, employment in the modern social sector has increased
by around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (predominantly private) agricultural sectors. These
differentials have resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary emplovment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
there were about 1.1 million external migrants. Since 1973, however, this
trend has been reve-3ed, and returning migrants have added to the pressure
on the social sector to create new work places.  Unemployment rates have
risen rapidly from about 72 in 1971 to over 12X in 1982. 1/  The incidence
of unemployment is highly regionalized; in 1982 unemployment rates ranged
from 29% in Kosovo to 2% in Slovenia.
C. Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive record of economic and social development
since 'orld War II, Yugoslavia today faces perhaps its most difficult
economic situation since the upheavals which accompanied economic
liberalization in 1965. In many respects the difficulties facing
Yugoslavia are similar to those facing most middle income developing
countries: higher oil prices and interest rates, sluggish world trade and
more difficult access to international comercial bank credit. The
severity of Yugoslavia's economic problems, however, also reflects
structural deficiencies in the pattern of Yugoslav development w,hich became
increasingly apparent in the seventies. In response the Government has
introduced a series of stabilization measures since 1980. The main
elements of the stabilization program introduced thus far have been
restrictive monetary and fiscal policies to curb investment and reduce
inflationary pressure, and the more active use of exchange rate policies to
encourage exports.  At the same time, imports have been scaled back in line
with the revenues accruing from export earnings and more limited foreign
borrowing. Yugoslavia's stabilization efforts are being supported by the
IhF in the form a three-year SDR 1,662 million standby arrangement in
effect s;nce January 1981.
1/ These -ates are not directly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to the social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to the total resident labor force was about
92 in 1982.



- 4 -
10.      As a result of its stabilization program, Yugoslavia succeeded in
reducing its current account deficit from $3.7 billion in 1979 to $0.9
billion in 1981. Underlying this improvement was a strong surge in
merchandise exports which increased in volume by 112 in 1980 and 82 in
1981. At the same time, merchandise import volumes vere reduced by 14Z in
1980 and 12% in 1981. In 1982, however, exports increased by less then one
percent in value over the previous year, indicating negative real growth.
Performance ot invisibles in 1982 was also below expectations. The
Yugoslav authorities responded by devaluing the dinar (by 49Z against the
dollar during 1982) and by further cuts in imports (the value of
merchandise imports in 1982 declined by 8.2x).  As a result of these
efforts the current account deficit was further reduced, to an estimated
$0.5 billion. While every effort is being made to isolate important
domestic producers (and exporters in particular) from the effects of the
import restrictions, the import squeeze is continuing to cause difficulties
for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly sinc'? 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2%. In both 1980 and 1981 GDP growth is estimated at 2.22.
The latest available estimates indicate that GDP growth declined by 12 in
1982. This reduction in growth is partly a result of the stabilization
measures, but is also due to shortages of imported inputs. Mining and
manufacturing output has been particularly affected. There have been
marked fluctuations in agricultural output mainly due to climatic factors.
After stagnating in 1980 and 1981, agricultural output increased by 52 in
1982. Fixed investment has also fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at an average rate of 9.52 between 1975
and 1979, it declined by 6.0% per year in 1979-82. Despite these slowdowns
in investment and economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably
successful in maintaining a fast pace of job creation in the social
sector. Social sector employment increased by 3.2% in 1980, 2.92 in 1981
and 2.3% in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has been fastest
in the LDk where the incidence of unemployment is more severe.
12.      One of the major aims of the stabilization program has been to
reduce the rate of inflation, which increased from 13Z in 1978 to 222 in
1979. however, despite significant declines in investment and real
domestic demand, inflationary pressures have continued. In 1980 and 1981
inflation accelerated to 302 and 38% respectively. In an effort to bring
inflation under control, the authorities introduced temporary price
ceilings on a wide range of goods on July 31, 1982. This policy met with
only limited success, however, and inflation during 1982 was 322.  The
persistence of inflation has been due to a combination of factors. The
etforts of the authorities to restructure the pattern of relative prices to
promote more efficient resource allocation, stimulate agricultural
production and rationalize energy use have all put upward pressure on the
price level. The increase in international prices since 1979 and the
cumulative effects of the substantial depreciation of the dinar
considerably increased domestic production costs. Nominal personal income



- 5 -
growth has also proved difficult to control. The Government's intention is
to reduce the rate of inflation to 20X during 1983. Given the likely
inflationary effects of the depreciation of the dinar and mounting pressure
from workers to reverse the decline in real wages (which have fallen by 17X
in real terms since 1979), any reduction in the inflation rate below the
1982 level should be considered a significant achievement.
13.      Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts have been cc'uplicated by adverse
developments in the international capital markets. Increases in
international interest rates since 1979 helped push interest payments from
$0.8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $1.9 billion in 1982. Principal
repayments on medium- and long-term debt were an estimated $1.9 billion in
1982. IWhile there is recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's
adjustment efforts, the commercial banks have tended to adopt a cautious
position toward increasing their exposure. This has partly been due to
adverse developments in other parts of the world and partly to liquidity
problems experienced by some Yugoslav banks.
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints oa external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised. The main goal of economic policv is to put the balance of
payments on a secure footing and to ensure stable and sustained growth
during the 1986-90 plan period. For the next few years, however, the
authorities expect to see continued slow growth in social product and even
slower growth in domestic expenditure to allow resources to be released for
exports, with the aim of achieving a current account surplus before the end
of the plan period. This strategy also implies continued reductions in the
rate of fixed capital formation. Within the reduced investment program,
the priorities stressed are export promotion, the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
Nonproductive investment is to be cut back sharply.
15.      Since slower growth will make it more difficult for the social
sector to generate additional employment at the pace of the past, emphasis
is being laid on the development of labor intensive activities, including
small-scale enterprises and the increased use of shift work. Finally, the
reduction of regional disparities remains a major objective of Yugoslavia's
economic planning. Financial transfers between regions will play an
important role in this process, with particular stress on encouraging
social sector enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make
direct investments in the LDR. The initial experience with such joint
ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such projects have been
launched. They could make a significant contribution to the overall
efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the transfer of
technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.



-6-
Creditworthiness
16.      Commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia have declined
significantly and most recent credits have been organized on a bilateral
intergovernmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows
declined 'rom $4.2 billion in 1980 to an estimated t2.0 billion in 1982.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, in estimated
at about $16.3 billion at the end of 1982 while short-term debt at the end
of December 1982 stood at about $1.8 billion. While Yugoslavia was able to
increase its short-term borrowing by about $1 billion during the 1979-81
period, it was unable to roll all of this debt over during 1982 and
outstanding short-term debt declined by approximately $500 million over the
course of the year. During 1982 there was a substantial decline in foreign
exchange reserves which at the end of that year amounted to $1.7 billion,
or roughly one month of imports of goods and services.
17.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives.  Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio averaged 16X between 1976 and 1981, while the debt service
ratio in convertible currencies averaged 192 over the same period. In 1982
the estimated aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting
the increase in interest payments on floating rate debts and the decline in
the value of exports. Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on
convertible currency debts rose to 27 percent. A major effort, involving
some OECD countries, international comnercial banks and the IMF, has been
initiated to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining an orderly debt repayment.
Agreement has now been reached in principle on a total foreign assistance
package amounting to approximately $6 billion. The Yugoslav authorities
have also requested Bank consideration of a structural adjustment loan to
complement this effort. Although Yugoslavia's liquidity situation may
remain difficult in the near term, the aggregate debt service ratio is
expected to decline somewhat over the next few years. Given it's past debt
service record, pragmatism, and demonstrated capacity to implement firm
stabiliza'ion policies when these are called for, Yugoslavia remains
creditworLny for a substantial level of Bank lending.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA!/
18.      The proposed project would be the 81st loan by the Bank to
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,884.46 million.2/ Of this, approximately
36 percent ($1,358.4 million) has been for 24 operations in the
transportation sector -- 12 Eor highways, 8 for railways, and one each for
a natural gas pipeline and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project.
Historically, Bark lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in
addition to the transportation loans, six power loans, one
telecommunications loan, three  water supply and sewerage and three
multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial irrigation
components). In recent years, Bank lending bas increasingly focussed on
the agriculture sector for which fifteen operations, totalling *945.6
million (about 27 percent of the total) have been made. Twenty-one loans
amounting to $475 million (about 14 percent of the total) have also been
made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and a first Bank
loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976.
19.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance deteriorated somewhat in
1981 largely due to a shortage of local funds arising from financial
constraints. Following an implementation review of the whole loan
porttolio witb Borrowers in the fall of 1981, performance has markedly
improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares
most favorably with Bank-wide and regional averages and with most other
countries of a similar per capita income. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1983, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued recently in
its lending to Yugoslavia are to; (i) increase exports and improve the
efficiency of import substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic
investment with a view to increasing production with the more limited
investment resources available; (iii) improve access to capital markets;
and (iv) reduce unemployment, particularly in the LDR. Not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
continues to be toward the development of the LDR. Underpinning this
orientation are economic surveys of the four LDRs undertaken by the Bank,
intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, and ongoing economic
and sector analysis.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
President's Report for the Sixth Railway Project scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors on July 19, 1983.
2/ The 79th loan would be the Structural Adjustment Loan (US$275 million)
approved by the Executive Directors on June 28, 1983. The 80th loan
would be the Sixth Railway Project (US$110 million) which is scheduled
for consideration by the Executive Directors on July 19, 1903.



- 8 -
21.       Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system, the process of
evolving acceptable solutions to problems in cumbersome. The Bank has
therefore put increased emphasis on forstering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. The Bank will concentrate its lending operations in areas
where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination impact has
most potential.
22.       A persistent foreign resource gav looms as the major impediment
to Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and through assisting in the establishment of new banking
relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank, however, is the major source of
long-term external capital and is expected to remain so in the near
future. In its future lending to Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put
increased emphasis on co-financing, recognizing, however, commercial market
constraints that Yugoslavia is facing.
23.       Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about
9.0 percent of its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is
expected to remain fairly stable. Service on Bank luans as a proportion of
total debt service was 5.4 percent in 1981 and is projected to be about
6 percent by 1986.
24.       IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then,
IFC has made 19 investments in the country and, as of March 31, 1983, IFC's
portfolio amounted to $327.5 million gross and $178.7 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the LDRs.



-9--
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SEPTOR
A. The Industrial Sector
A. Industry-Structure and Performance
25.       The industrial sector of Yugoslavia has been the leading sector
of the country's economic growth since the early 1950's and plays a central
role in its foreign trade. In 1980, industry 1/ accounted for over
36 percent of 'Yugoslavia's GNP 2/ (27 percent in 1960), employed one fifth
of the total labor force (13 percent in 1960) and accounted for 95 percent
of merchandise exports (75 percent in 1960). The industrial structure is
quite diversified with a number of basic industries based on the country's
sizeable natural resources and a well-developed manufacturing sector which
produces a wide range of capital, intermediate and consumer goods. Large,
and generally capital intensive enterprises are predominant. Yugoslavia
became an important exporter of industrial goods in the 1950s. Although
the share of exports in total industrial output declined somewhat in the
1970s, it still represented more than 9 percent by 1980. The bulk of
industrial exports is generated by the KDR, although Bosnia-BerzeSovina and
hacedonia in LDR are also making some contributions (14 percent and
5 percent of total commodity exports in 1980).
26.       On the vhole, performance of industry during the 1970's was
characterized by relatively rapid average growth of output (one point
higher than the average growth of the economy), high rates of irvestment,
and significant reduction in the growth of industrial imports, aue to both
import protection and successful import-substitution, but also sluggish
industrial exports growth, particularly in the developed countries market.
At the same time, the capital intensity of industrial investment increased,
and there was only a modest growth in total factor productivity.
Industrial employment increased from 1.4 million to 2.2 million between
1971 and 1980; there was, howvver, a decline in the elasticity of
employment creation to induscrial output. Distortions in sub-sectoral
investment allocations led to lagging development of the designated
priority sectors.
Industry in the LDR
27.       Over the past 30 years, the share of industry in GMP in the four
LDR grev faster than in other regions. Although the LDR started with a
considerably lower level of industrial development after Second World War,
by 1980 industry's share in the GNP of the LDR (38 percent) exceeded that
of the more developed regions (MDR) (37 percent). However, the value added
in industry in the MDR is tvice that in the LDR on a per capita basis.
1/  Including manufacturing and mining. and excluding electrical power
generation and construction.
2/ Gross Material Product



- :o -
Because of the LDRs' substantial wealth of u-neral and energy resources,
basic industries have played a very importan: role in their economies,
implying a more capital intensive industrial structure than for the MDR.
Among the LDR, Montenegro and Kosovo continua! to have the most capital
intensive industrial structures, with basic industries making up nearly
40 percent of industrial value added. In KOsOVO. basic industries have
been developed in mining and energy (coal, electricity and gas based on
lignite). The manufacturing industry is limited to about fifty medium and
large enterprises in a few sub-sectors. Commodity exports were of the
order of $200 million in 1981, 50 percent of which are lead and zinc. The
current Social Plan emphasizes the completion of ongoing projects and the
creation of small and medium scale labor intensive industries for the
processing of local raw materials to serve the domestic market in Kosovo
and other republics. Ihe high rate of unemployment (17 percent of the
labor force) is the single most important issue that Kosovo has to address
and the Plan aims at the creation of 65,000 new jobs in the social sector,
largely in industry. In Montenegro, industrial development is even less
advanced than in Kosovo. Large capacities have been established for the
production of steel and aluminum which are mainly used by other republics.
Beyond that, there are few processing industries. Vomodity exports are
small - about $150 million in 1981 - and include mainly aluminum and
steel. Unemployment (12 percent of the labor force) and, to a larger
extent, availability of the skills needed by industry are major issues in
the republic although less acute than in Kosovo. In industry, the Social
Plan gives a marked priority to the development of processing industries
for export, based on locally produced raw materials (aluminum, steel, wwood,
leather and textiles, and agriculture), and emphasizes rapid income
generation and efficiency, regional development within the republic, and
employment creation.
Industrial Development Issues
28.      After three decades of rapid development Yugoslav industry is
faciig a number of problems. The stress placed on import-substitution
restAlted in a bias against exports and distortions in the industrial
st7ucture. The growth rate of Yugoslav exports slackened to 6.5 percent
during 1965-72 and 3.8 percent during 1973-80 from the 11.4 percent
achieved in the period 1953-65. Except in certain sub-sectors, the
structure of Yugoslav industrial exports has become highly diversified.
Exports have often been of a spill over nature and implied a high domestic
resource cost. As a result of this, as well as the rapidly rising costs of
imported energy and deteriorating terms of trade since 1973, the trade
deficit has substantially widened. In view of the constrained foreign
exchange position, it is becoming vital for Yugoslavia to give its industry
a strong drive toward export for the long term, to optimize the utilization
of domestic resources and to specialize in areas of comparative advantage.



- 11 -
29.      Raising labor productivity, as well as capital productivity is a
key issue for the external adjustment of Yugoslav industry, particularly in
the LDR. The system of investment planning has a number of weaknesses
which, when combined with inappropriate p. iicies and market signals have
created the conditions for low factor productivity in Yugoslav iviustry.
The economic analysis underlying investment selection does not always take
into account such issues as the comparative advantage of Yugoslav industry
and minimization of domestic resource costs. The subsidized interest rates
and the preference to modern technology have not responded adequately to
the Yugoslav situation of lower labor costs, scarcity of foreign exchange,
and high levels of unemployment in the LDR.  Because of the predominance of
local and regional interests, the fragmentation of the capital market among
regional lines and difficulties in pooling resources among enterprises and
across regions, there is little incentive and no well-defined mechanism to
analyze alternative location or scale of projects and coordinate industrial
development on a country-wide basis. The export drive of Yugoslav industry
may result in improvements in these areas in the long run. Greater
responsiveness to international competition would necessitate optimizing
resource allocation, increasing capacity utilization, seeking economies of
scale, and improving technology and productivity. A sustained export
orientation would also require a rationalization of industrial incentives
which, in turn, would stimulate industries serving the domestic market to
make more efficient and rational use of resources and to increase their
productivity. Ultimately, certain sub-sectors would have to be
restructured and enterprises among regions would have to coordinate their
development and associate themselves through domestic joint ventures to
achieve economies of scale and specialization, and penetrate foreign
markets.
30.      Policy-makers at both the Federal and regional levels have
recognized the need to tackle these issues in preparing the Social Plan for
1981-85 and the industrial sector is expected to play a central role in
Yugoslavia's external adjustment. The new industrial policy provides for
a pronounced shift from import substitution towards export-led growth.
There is to be a stress on rationalization and greater efficiency of
investment planning, implementation and use, and the completion of ongoing
projects. Emphasis is placed on the modernization of existing industries,
backward and forward linkages among industries and removal of bottlenecks,
and productivity increases to save on the use of scarce investment
resources, and to achieve competitiveness in exports and more efficient
import substitution. The stabilization program introduced since 1982
(para. 9) includes a reduction of the rate of fixed investment, although to
a lesser extent in industry than in other sectors.Within the reduced
investment total the share going to the designated priority sectors
(energy, basic metals, minerals and basic chemicals, capital goods and
exports) is higher than in the past. Employment creation is a continued
objective of industrial policy, particularly in the LDR, and is to be
fostered through the development of labor-intensive processing industries
and the encouragement of small and medium scale enterprises. There is also
a continued desire to industrialize all regions and communes of the
country, a goal which has been pursued with considerable success so far.



- 12 -
Attempts have been made to improve inter-regional industrial coordination
through the conclusion of social compacts among regions on the development
of industrial capacities, particularly in basic industries. Progress in
this area should also result from the "pooling" of resources among
enterprises and joint ventures between IDR and LDR enterprises, which are
stimulated by more active measures. Joint ventures between LDR and MDR
enterprises are seen as a major mechanism for raising LDR productivity and
adjust their productive structure, improve industrial coordination and know
how transfer among regions, and provide access to domestic and foreign
markets for LDR enterprises.
31.      There is an active policy dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on employment and industrial development issues. Bank reports on
export performance and policies, raising productivity in Yugoslav industry,
small scale industry and employment strategy and manpower policies for the
1980s dealt extensively with the country's industrial policy framework and
paid particular attention to the need to improve the incentives for
industrial exports and employment creation.l/ The proposed project builds
on the lessons drawn from the economic policy dialogue in a variety of
ways. Specifically, in line with the Bank's overall policy
recommendations, it focusses on labor-intensive and export-oriented
sub-projects and encourages joint ventures in the two LDR with the less
advanced industrial sector.
B. The Financial Sector
32.      Multipurpose banks (whose founders are their depositors and
borrowers), are the dominant form of financial intermediaries carrying out
all commercial aud investment banking functions for all sectors of the
economy. ahe two proposed borrowers Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
(KBP) and Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka (IBT), together with
their member basic banks, handle the bulk of investment and commercial
banking in their respective regions. In addition to the multipurpose
banks, the financial sector includes the National Banks, which essentially
perform the role of central banks at the Federal and Regional levels, the
Post Office Saving Bank and other savings institutions, investment loan
funds and insurance institutions. A Federal Credit and Banking Law,
effective January 1978, changed the banks to a three-tier organizational
commercial banking structure consisting of internal, basic and associated
banks. An internal bank is essentially a service organization established
by BOALs (see para 3) within a Kombinat. A basic bank may carry out all
kinds of credit and banking operations in Yugoslavia, within the framework
of its own resources, and as such forms the core of the restructured
banking system. It can be founded by any social legal entity. An
1/ Recent Bank reports on Yugoslavia's industrial sector include special
studies on Export Performances and Policies (No. 2972-YU), on Productivity
in Yugoslav Industry (No. 3383a-YU) and on Small Scale Industry and
Industrial Policy (No. 3452-YU), Chapter VI of the report: Yugoslavia -
Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (No. 3954-YU).



- 13 -
associated bank is established as a legal entity through a self-management
agreement of two or more basic banks, its main function beLng to
concentrate resources for financing major investments and to carry on foreign
business transactions on behalf of its member basic banks. It also
administers the Federal Fund (see para. 7) allocations in its region. Both
KBP and lBT are associated banks.
33.      Resource Mobilizatior and Allocation.  The resources of banks are
made up of mainly intermediated tunds, i.e. sight and term deposits of social
and private sector enterprises, households and other organizations,
borrowings from other banks in Yugoslavia, and foreign borrowing. In the
case of banks in the LDR, such as KBP and IBT, non-intermediated funds such
as Federal and Regional funds are another major resource. As to foreign
commercial borrowings, the National Bank of Yugoslavia has recently replaced
the regional banks as the principal borrower. In drawing up their Five Year
Plan and allocating their funds, regional banks follow decisions
reached at enterprise, regional and federal levels. This is in line with
Yugoslavia's extensive planning system which culminates in the conclusion of
social compacts and self-management agreements which have the force of law
(see para. 4). At the stage of investment decisions the banks have a key
role to play in ensuring that the projects presented by the enterprises are
consistent with the plan priorities in terms of sectors, locations, markets,
technology, employment effects etc., correspond to the investment proposals
initially agreed in the planning process and are economically and financially
viable.
Past Bank Industrial Credit Lending
34.      The Bank has thus far made six loans to associated banks in the LDR,
totalling $376 million. The first five loans were aimed primarily at (i)
providing foreign currency resources mainly for the development of small and
medium sized industries and supporting Yugoslavia's industrial development;
GiU) supporting rapid development and employment creation in the LDR,
particularly by encouraging labor intensive projects; (iii) promoting greater
inter-regional cooperation and coordination through joint-ventures between
enterprises in the LDR and MDR; (iv) helping access to external commercial
sources of finance for Yugoslav enterprises by encouraging co-financing;
and (v) contributing to rational nllocation of investment resources and
institution-building of participating banks in the industrial sector. The
sixth loan, made to Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS) and Stopanska Banka Skopje
(SBS) in 1982, aims to assist mainly export-oriented industrial projects,
besides meeting the above general objectives.
35.      Out of the past loans, commitments and disbursements under the first
and second industrial credit lines (IC I and II), (Loans Nos. 1012 - 1013 and
1277 YU), totalling $100 million, have been completed and a completion report
on the first loan has been prepared; an evaluation of this loan by OED is
currently underway. IC III and IV (Loans Nos. 1611 - 1614 YU) of $40 million
and $60 million respectively are also fully committed and expected to be
disbursed by December 31, 1983. In line with their partial objective, the



- 14 -
first four loans have contributed to employment creation at a reasonable cost
per job. Also, the estimated financial rate of return (FRR) and economic
rate of return (ERR) of the sub-projects financed vere in most cases well
above the agreed minimum of 11 percent. Finally, under IC III and IV, 26
sub-projects financed by KBP and IBT have attracted foreign currency
co-financing totalling $16.5 million. IC V (Loans Nos. 1909 - 1912 YU) which
became effective on August 17, 1981 allocated $50 million to KBP and *20
million to IBT. Funds are expected to be fully committed by September
1983, ahead of the February 1984 target date. To date, 26 sub-projects have
been approved by KBP and IBT under IC V but they have attracted co-financing
of only $3.2 million because of recent difficulties in mobilizing new
external loans.
36.      A review of sub-projects of KBP and IBT shovs that their results are
generally satisfactory. A few projects are facing problems mainly due to
cost overruns or difficulties in the import of raw materials due to foreign
exchange constraints. Efforts are being made by concerned enterprises, vith
the help of their banks, to obtain foreign exchange from other enterprises
with a surplus of such funds and to borrov additional funds for financing
cost overruns.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.      The proposed loans and project are sumamrized in the Loans and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in
the "Staff Appraisal Report on a Seventh Industrial Credit Project"
No. 4301-YU dated May 23, 1983. This report is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The project was appraised by a mission which
visited Yugoslavia in October/November 1982. Negotiations were held in
Washington from April 25 to May 4, 1983. The Yugoslav delegation was led by
Mr. A. Ilic, Assistant to the President of the Federal Committee for Energy
and Industry; KBP was represented by Nr. R. Zahiti, President, and IBT by
Mr. I. Culjkovic, President.
Objectives of the Proposed Loans
38.      The last industrial credit --IC VI-  to Yugoslavia represented a new
orientation by addressing more specifically the priorities for industrial
development for the country and the two beneficiary LDR (Bosnia Herzegovina
and Macedonia) and taking into account the institutional situation of their
banks (PBS and SBS). A similar approach has been taken in developing the
proposed project for the other two LDR (Kosovo and Montenegro) and their
banks (KBP and IBT). Specifically, the ptoposed loans are designed to (i)
help alleviate the unemployment problem of Kosovo and Montenegro by assisting
labor-intensive industries; (ii) support Yugoslavia's more general objective
of industrial export growth by assisting export-oriented industries; (iii)
encourage joint ventures between different republics and provinces of
Yugoslavia; (iv) help the borrowing banks to increase their role in the
identification of projects in priority areas through specific studies; and



- 15 -
(v) strengthen the institutionel capability of the borrowing banks. Subject
to improvement in the eAternal resource mobilization situation for
Yugoslavia, the loans would also encourage co-financing in sub-projects
financed under them. The above objectives are in line with the Federal and
Regional plans and the Bank's lending strategy vis-a-vis Yugoslavia as
elaborated in Part II above.
The Borrowing Banks
39.      Institutional Aspects.  The two borrowers, KBP and IBT, are
associated banks (see para 37). Each bank has its own self-management
agreement and statutes; its operations are regulated by the National Bank at
the Federal level and various Federal directives, and supervised by the
Social Accounting Service (SDK). The Absembly of a bank is its highest
governing body; in the case of an associated bank it is made up of delegates
elected by the members of the basic banks. The Assembly appoints, for a
four-year term, each bank's President who is the chief executive. In late
1982, the number of employees was 288 at KBP and 205 at IBT. Both banks have
almost similar organizations, divided into functional departments.
40.      Like all other Yugoslav banks, XBP and IBT do not have formal
financial policies per se concerning their operations such as exposure limits
and maximum debt to equlty ratio. Nevertheless, they generally follow
prudent practices. Any substantial allocation of funds to a particular
project has to be in accordance with the Regional Plan. The banks use
similar procedures for project appraisal. All projects are first examined
and approved by member basic banks, and projects which exceed their
resources, and/or involve Federal or Regional Funds, or foreign exchange, are
forwarded to the associated banks for further detailed appraisal and
approval; these include all Bank-financed sub-projects.
41.      The progress on institution building of  KBP and IBT has been
limited. Consequently, under the proposed project, a special emphasis will
be given to the institutional improvement aspect of the two borrowers. A
plan of action has been prepared in consultation with UBP to improve staff
capability of project appraisal and supervision, managerial capabilities and
overall coordination and review of work with particular emphasis on the work
related to the Bank's industrial credit projects. RBP has already started
implementing the plan and a timetable for implementing the plan has been
agreed upon during negotiations (KBP Loan Agreement, Schedule 4). The
appointment of a development banking advisor acceptable to the Bank will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan to KBP (KBP Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01). IBT initiated a study on strengthening its institutional
structure and loan portfolio by hiring local experts in these fields. IBT
and the Republican Government of Montenegro have started implementing
recommendations contained in the study. IBT has also initiated
implementation of the Bank's recommendations which emphasize, inter alia, the
importance of strengthening the IBRD unit within IBT and improvement in staff
capability in project appraisal and supervision. After review of progress so
far made, a timetable has been agreed for carrying out remaining measures



- 16 -
contained in the recommer.dations of local experts and the Bank (IBT Loan
Agreement, Schedule 4). As a measure to strengthen staff capability in both
b.anks, the project will provide $100,000 of technical assistance for the
training of two staff members of each bank in project identification,
appraisal, and supervisira work outside Yugoslavia, mainly witb a vell
established development bank. In view of the current foreign exchange
constraints, the proposed loans provide $150,000 for the importation of
essential office equipment for KBP and IBT.
42.      Financial Position.  The banks plan their operations on a
disbursement rather than a commitment basis.  As a result, each bauk has              D
substantial overcommitments vis-a-vis available resources at any point in
time which it expects to cover by transfers from the Federal and Regional
funds for priority projects and other sources. The banks maintain a tight
liquidity position which is regulated by the National Bank of Yugoslavia
together with regional National banks and supervised by SDK. Debt/equity
ratios (exclusive of the Federal and Republican/Provincial Funds) reached
2.7:1 at the end of 1981 in the case of KBP and 13.6:1 in the case of IBT but
are not to be conventionally interpreted in the Yugoslav context. The
solvency of Yugoslav banks is a function of the solvency of their basic
member banks and, in turn, their founder members (each assuming unlimited
liability for the bank's debts). The banks are only expected to earn an
income which is adequate to cover their expenses and to make required
allocations to a Joint Liability Fund and a Reserve Fund. However, annual
allocations made by KBP and IBT to these reserve funds have not fully met
Yugoslav regulations. During negotiations, understandings were reached with
the banks that they would increase the Joint Liability Fund to the required
level of 3% of total investments by 1987. As regards the Reserve Fund, the
banks will meet the requirement of transferring out of their net annual
income a sum equal to at least 0.3% of total investment.
43.      The long-term loans in arrears of over three months as a percentage
of long-term loans portfolio were 3.9 percent ann 5.3 percent respectively
for KBP and IBT at the end of 1981. KBP's arrears are considered to be
within acceptable limits. Also, as a result of legal restrictions on
additional financial assistance to delinquent enterprises an4 the
strengthening of the project supervision system further improvements should
become visible in the coming months. IBT's arrears are relatively more
serious although confined largely to a small number of borrowers. IBT's
management is concerned with the arre;.r situation and, in 1982, it appointed
locel consultants to review this matter. Their recommendations for
improvement of operations of concerned enterprises and loan recovery have
been largely accepted. Improvements in IBT's overall loan recovery have
already occured, arrears over three months is a percentage of long-term loan
portfolio declined from 5.3% at the end of 1981 to 3.32 at the end of 1982.
Further progress on implementation of the consultants' recommendations and
IBT's loan recovery position will be closely monitored by the Bank. A few
basic member banks of KBP and IBT have suffered foreign exchange losses on
foreign currency savings accounts due to currency fluctuations. While these
losses are manageable and will be amortized against future annual income, KBP



- 17 -
and IBT agreed to make appopriate arrangements to protect themselves in the
future against the foreign exchange risk in their lending and borroving
operations (Loan Agreements, Section 4.05).
44.      Both banks are audited by SDK following generally accepted
inLernational accounting standards, to the extent consistent with Yugoslav
law. Over the past several years, SDK has expanded the scope of its
international standard audits and, in 1979, as part of its annual audit, it
started a detailed portfolio analysis of all four banks having been
recipients of previous Bank lines of credit.
45.      Both banks are considered credit-worthy for Bank lending.  This
assessment is based on the fact that: (a) there have been no significant loan
'osses in the past, (b) management of resources and selection of projects are
generally satisfactory, and 'c) the basic member banks and, in turn, their
founder members have unlimited liability for the associated banks'
obligations.
46.      Operations.  The main areas of operation of the two banks are loans
and guarantees. Long-term loan commitments have shown an overall growth over
the past several years, reflecting the increase in investment in the regions
the banks serve. In 1981, long-term loan commitments of KBP amounted to $473
million, with manufacturing accounting for 61.7 percent of the total. IBT's
long-term commitments amounted to $363 million of which manufacturing
accounted for 61.1 percent. Guarantees in favor of enterprises, primarily in
the industrial sector, have also shown a generally increasing trend,
amounting to $132 million for RBP and $183 million for IBT in 1981.
47.      Forecast of Operations.  Operational and financial projections of
KBP and IBT are based on their medium-term plans for the 1981-85 period and
linked to the regional plans for Kosovo and Montenegro. The banks' forecast
of operations indicate that each expects long-term loan commitments to
continue to expand. Their long-term resource mobilization plans appear
reasonable, with Federal and Regional funds allocations expected to be the
most important source for KBP. The loans would meet about 21 percent of the
banks' total foreign currency requirements for industrial lending from
mid-1983 to end 1985 on a commitment basis. The final date of sub-project
submission under the loans would be December 31, 1985 and the Closing Date
December 31, 1988 (Loan Agreements, Sections 2.03 (c) and 2.04).
Features of the Proposed Loan
48.      Allocation:  KBP and IBT will receive $45 million and $25 million
respectively out of the total loan amount of IC VII. Sub-loans can only be
provided for labor-intensive and/or export-oriented sub-projects.
49.      Labor-Intensive Projects.  The main beneficiary under the proposed
loan will be labor-intensive projects. Eligible labor-intensive projects
under the proposed project would have a more restrictive criterion of a total
capital cost per job not exceeding $25,000 in 1982 prices, as compared with



- 18 -
$31,000 equivalent under IC V. The new criteria are based on the actual cost
per job )bserved in six relatively more labor-intensive industrial subsectors
in Yugoslavia.
50.      Export-oriented Projects.  Ir order to ensure viable exports based
on comparative advantage under the project, new sub-projects would export
direccly at least 30 percent of their production, and balancing,
modernization, and/or expansion sub-projects would export at least 40 percent
of their incremental production. The eligible export oriented sub-projects
would also include those sub-projects whose output is further processed by
another project for direct export. To ensure their overall positive
contribution to the balance of payments of the country and optimum use of
domestic resources including raw materials, labor and technology, eligible
sub-projects would have to recover their foreign exchange cost through net
foreign exchange earnings within a six year period commencing six months
after their completion (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Part A,
paragraph 1(a)). The borrowing banks will closely supervise and review the
export performance of sub-borrowers to ensure compliance with export targets
and periodically report their findings to the Bank. In case sub-borrowers
fail to comply with the export targets and the banks sbould conclude that
such failure is due to negligence or lack of sufficient effort by the
enterprises, the borrowing banks would take any of the following measures
against the enterprises: (i) a penalty interest of up to 4 percent per annum;
(ii) restrictions on future credits (both long-term and short-term) to the
enterprise; and/or (iii) call back of sub-loan or shortening of sub-loan
maturity (Loan Agreements, Section 3.02 (a)(vii)).
51.      Joint Ventures.  Joint ventures are seen as a major mechanism for
increasing transfer of resources, industrial know-how and managerial
capability, achieving better industrial integration and coordination among
regions, and raising LDR productivity. Joint venture projects will include
an investment by one or several enterprises of republics and provinces of at
least 20 percent of the total project cost and provide for a technical and
management assistance agreement with the investing enterprise(s). To
facilitate the conclusion of joint ventures in the two regions under the
project, at least one third of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked for
joint venture projects which would meet the labor intensity and/or export
orientation criteria (Loan Agreements, Section 2.03 (a)).
52.      KBP and IBT have received feasibility reports for 32 labor-intensive
and 18 export-oriented projects wnich are expected to meet the proposed
eligibility criteria and would require a total of about $146 million in
foreign currency financing.  Also, it is anticipated that, on the basis of
agreements signed and ongoing negotiations on specific projects between
Kosovo and Montenegro and other regions, the two banks should be able to use
at least one-third of the loan amounts for joint ventures.



- 19 -
53.      lechnical Assistance for Studies and Institution Building.  In order
to prepare more diversified project pipelines in the area in which the two
regions have comparative advantages, KBP will undertake studies for the
iaentification of labor-intensive and export-oriented sub-sectors and
projects in Kosovo; IBT will undertake the study of export-oriented
sub-sectors and projects. A study of labor-intensive industries has already
been completed by the Economic Institute of Montenegro. Although certa.n
Yugoslav institutes have the general expertise to prepare these types of
studies, short-term foreign experts will be needed to assist in the
preparation of export studies and assessment of foreign markets. Due to
financial constraints, the entire cost of studies will be financed under the
Bank's loans. The selection of consultants will be made following the Bank's
guidelines. Studies of export-oriented industries would require about 50
man-months each ($3,000/man-months 11) and would cost about $170,000 for each
bank. The study -f labor-intensive industries would require about 40
man-months ($1,8'J/man-months 1/) and would cost about $80,000 for each
bank. Studies c* labor-intensive and export-oriented industries are expected
to be completed by harch 1984 and June 1984 respectively (Loan Agreements,
Section 3.06). As noted above, the project also aims at substantial
institution-building of the two banks, particularly better management control
and improved project appraisal and supervision. The project includes plans
to finance components of the institution building program (paras. 39 to 41).
54.      Sub-project and Sub-loan Size:  The maximum size for labor-intensive
sub-projects will be $20 million and the maximum sub-loan amount for such
sub-projects will be $4 million. There will be no limit on the maximum size
of export-oriented sub-projects (since they may need to be fairly large to
achieve economies of scale and be competitive internationally) but their
maximum sub-loan amount will be $5 million. A review of the banks' pipeline
of sub-projects indicates that, except for one, all sub-projects would be
within the maximum limit of $20 million.
55.      Free Limit;  In order to give the Bank a continuing role in the
institutional improvement of the two banks, the free limit for individual
sub-loans under the proposed loans will be set at $1.5 million. The
aggregate free limit will be maintained at 60 percent of the total loan
amount for each bank. The first five sub-loans in the export oriented
category will be submitted for the Bank's detailed review and approval to
provide guidance and enable the banks to improve their sub-project
appraisal. It is expected that the above arrangement would ensure the Bank's
review of about 80 percent of the loan amount and about 40 percent of
sub-projects.
1/ The average man-month cost of export study is higher because of engaging
short-term foreign consultants.



- 20 -
56.      Terms of Sub-loans;  The repayment period of individual sub-loans
will not exceed 15 years including a maximum grace period af ;hree years. As
an incentive fcr (i) joint ventures with enterprises in other republics and
provinces, and (ii) cc-financing with other foreign exchange rescurces, the
maximum grace period will be extended up to five years, provided the need fcr
such a longer grace period can be demonstrated. The $670,000 technical
assistance component will be repayable by the banks over 18 years including
three years ct grace.
57.      Eccncmic and Financial Evaluation:  As under previous industrial
credits, the borrowing banks will prepare a satisfactory economic and
financial evaluation of sub-projects including the calculations of ERR and
FRR. As prcvided in IC VI, the minimum ERR of sub-projects will be
12 percent and the minimum FRR will be increased in line with lcng-term
interest rates in Yugcslavia (para 58). Sub-projects should be financially
viable even when financed by loans fran specially earmarked funds at
subsidized interest rates. The sub-projects will, therefore, have a minimum
FRR which will be nct less than the borrowing banks' interest rates on long
term lcans made fram their own local currency resources at the time of
approval cf a sub-project (minimum of 18 percent).
Interest Rates and On-Lending Rates
58.      Despite a prevalent view in Yugoslavia that the role of interest
rates in investment allocation is subordinate to that played by social
planning and group consensus, a more active use of interest rate policy has
increasingly became the cbject cf government policy. Indeed, the new Federal
Sccial Plan and the Naticnal Assembly have resolved that interest rates
shGuld play a more important role in resource mobilizaticn and allocation.
The medium-term objective is tc introduce over time a structure of positive
real interest rates by gradually adjusting naminal rates upwards and
concurrently reducing inflation. In this respect, Gcvernment
anti-inflationary measures, applied in accordance with agreements reached
with the IMF, have succeeded in bringing inflaticn down fram an annual rate
of over 50Z in the first half of 1981 to 322 in 1982. Inflation in 1983 is
expected to be about 30%, with a further deceleration expected in 1984 to
about 25%. Recently, in ccasultation with the IMF, the Yugcslav Banks
Association conducted a review of the interest rate structure. In May and in
October 1982 and again in February 1983, significant increases in the
structure of depcsit rates and rediscount rates were implemented. The
Government has cver the past three years more than doubled lending rates fcr
consumer credits, m at recently in October 1982 raising from 16 to 18% the
ccsts of lcng-term consumer credit while raising interest rates cn time
deposits. The three year time deposits are now at a level of 28%.
59.      In the context of the propcsed loan it has been agreed that KBP and
IBT will charge a minimum of 18 percent an loans made from their own local
currency resources fcr Bank supported sub-projects (Loan Agreements, Section
3.05). However the actual minimum interest rate charged cn sub-projects
approved after January 1, 1984 would increase in accordance with the
understandings reached under the Structural Adjustment Lcan to Yugoslavia.



- 21 -
Thus a ilcor lending rate will be introduced on local currency resources of
18 percent plus one third of the difference between 18 percent and the rate
of inflation (as measured by the producer price index). Further adjustments
will be made with the intention of achieving positive real rates by 1986 (as
measured by the higher of producer price or retail price inflation). Certain
high priority industrial sector investments to be defined in the revised
1IU1-85 plan will be subject tv a lower floor rate initially with the
intention of moving to positive real rates by 1989. However, this lower
floor rate will not apply to Bank subprojects financed under the proposed
project.
60.      The banks also provide long-term local currency loans from the
Federal and Regional funds. Most of these funds are obligatory contributions
imposed on enterprises in Yugoslavia to meet specific social objectives and,
therefore, they are of a quasi-equity nature. In line with what was agreed
under earlier industrial credits and the Structural Adjustment Loan, no floor
rates should apply to banks' lending from these resources and the rates
currently applicable to such funds should continue.
61.      Like the Sixth Industrial Credit, the proposed Bank loans will be
onlent by the borrowing banks to sub-borrowers after adding a minimum spread
of 1.25 percent on the Bank's applicable interest rate. This spread would be
sufficient to cover administrative expenses and other related costs/provisions
of the borrowing banks. As sub-borrowers will carry the foreign exchange
risk on the proposed loans, the real cost of the Bank's funds to sub-borrowers
would be very close to that of international commercial sources taking into
account the currency pooling system and current international lending rates.
The banks will relend the loan proceeds at variable interest rates to avoid
interest risk.
62.      Procurement and Disbursement.  International competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures will normalliy be required for contracts estimated to exceed
$2 million equivalent. The Bank will undertake a full review, prior to
contract award, of all procurement documents and procedures for contracts
expected to cost $5 million equivalent, or more. For contracts of $2 - $5
million equivalent responsibility for ICB will be delegated to KBP and IBT;
however, the Bank would review the bid evaluation report, award and final
contract prior to the first disbursement.  Procurement for contracts below $2
million will continue to be in accordance with appropriate commercial
practices (Loan Agreements, Schedule 3, Part C, para. 2). Disbursements of
funds by the Bank will be made against standard evidence of expenditures with
supporting documents.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.      Kosovo and Montenegro, two of the less developed regions of
Yugoslavia and beneficiaries under the proposed loans are facing significant
unemployment problems. The situation is more severe in Kosovo. They are
also experiencing major foreign exc'ange constraints which is a serious
economic problem of the whole country. The proposed project would help



- 22 -
develop labor-intensive and export-oriented industries to alleviate these
problems and would also have demonstrative effects on KBP and IBT for
implementation of the Plan objectives through svstematic identification and
development, methodical appraisal, and effective supervision of priority
projects. The balancing, modernization, and expansion of industries under
the project would result in better utilization of existing facilities and
creation of economies of scale which are a prerequisite for successful
industrial exports. The project would also contribute to improving the
industrial structure in the two regions concerned. and, in Yugoslavia as a
whole, by encouraging/ stimulating joint ventures.  It would also contribute
te the correction of development disparities among regions in Yugoslavia.
The proposed loan is estimated to finance about 35 sub-projects with total
investment of about $200 million equivalent. Assuming that one third of the
sub-projects would be export-oriented, the aggregate net foreign exchange
earnings of the sub-projects would be about $15-20 million per annum upon the
commencement of their normal commercial operations. The aggregate direct
employment creation should be of the order of 10,000 jobs.
64.      The project envisages a comprehensive program for the institution
building of the two borrowing banks and it should result, inter alia, in more
intensive promotional work by banks, channelling of funds to high priority
industrial projects based on more efficient project appraisal, effective
project supervision and better management control particularly on project
processing and monitoring. The technical assistance component in the project
would help in the identification and development ot labor-intensive and
export-oriented projects for the banks' future assistance (beyond IC VII) and
the institution-building through staff training.
65.      The risks under the proposed project mainly relate to meeting the
employment/export targets by beneficiary enterprises. These targets may not
be met due to problems in implementation and operations of sub-projects.
however, this risk will be minimized through more effective project appraisal
and supervision by the banks and involvement of the Bank staff in project
review. Also, the actual exports of sub-projects may fall short of targets
for two main reasons. First, the conditions in expnrt markets may change to
the disadvantage ot Yugoslav producers due to development of more economical
substitutes, enhanced competition from other develoring countries, or
creation of production capacity within the iwporti-ag countries. Second,
beneficiary enterprises may concentrate on the domestic market, which has
been generally more profitable due to protection policies, and make only
"spill-over" exports in line with their past practice.  Provisions have been           i
made to minimize these risks through (i) a careful and indepth evaluation of
marketing viability and prospects of all export oriented sub-project by the
borrowing banks and their subsequent review by the PdnK staff before the
sub-project approval even in free limit cases (para 55); (ii) close
supervision and monitoring of export performance of assisted enterprises by
borrowing banks and submission of periodical information to the Bank in this
regara; and (iii) exercise of remedies on beneficiary enterprises which fail
to meet the export target due to negligence or insufficient efforts (para
50'. It is expected that the above arrangements, as well as the new policy
tramework to encourage exports, would help to keep the risk within acceptable
limits.



- 23 -
PART-V - LEGAL INSTIRUENTS-AND-AUTHORITY
66.      Each of the draft Loan Agreements between the Bank on the one hand
and Udruzena Kosovska Bank Pristina and Investiciona BankA Titograd -
Udruzena Bai.ka respectively on the other hand, the draft Guarantee Agreement
between the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the
Reports of the Comaittee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (ii.), of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
67.      Special conditions of the loans are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
68.      1 am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMHENDATIONS
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 29, 1983
Ivashington, D.C.



- 24-                                        ANNEX I
Page I of 6
TGOSLSVWSO. IJDICAOSS DATA SECT
1Ut5SLUL                          umcUM  GW00s (EGHMD AVRACES
erwA  s'.                                                                      nOST 3 r- ,T ECENT ESTIJAE)-
TUrAL           255.8                                      DECET TOIE iNCGIC                   INDUSTRIALIZ
ACRICULTIIAL    142.4               1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE lb           EUROPE           Mury  ECOtIES
GCP PER CAPITA (USS)                 3E0.0      860.0   2620.0                2323.9                 1032B.2
ENERIY COHSSlTON PER CAPT
(rIWCRAKS OF COAL EQUIVALEXr)      932.1      1606.5   2414.9               2107.4                  7277.7
POPULATION ANiD VITAL SrTAISrCS
POPULATION. KID-YEAR (ThWSAl=)   18402.0    20371.0  232o.0
MAN POPUlATIONg (PENCEr OF TOrAL)   27.9       34.8      42.3                 47.9                    78.0
PorPUlAO PROJECrIOns
POPUlATIOs U  R m ZOO (o LLIoNs)                       25.8
STATIOSAR  POPUATION (IalLIONS)                        28.5
TEAR SrArIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2065
POPLATIO  DENS Im
PER SQ. ER.                       i..9       79.6      86.5                 83.3                   138.6
PER SQ. E. AQIC;LTIUAL LUD       124.2       139.6    155.5                155.4                   509.7
POPUlATION ACE SRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         30.5       27.4      24.6                 31.1                    22.7
15-64 YRS.                         63.2       64.8      66.5                 61.2                    65.7
65 IRS. AND ABOVE                   6.3        7.8       8.9                  7.7                    11.6
POPULATION COTH RATE (PERCErT)
TOTAL                              1.2        1.0       0.9                  1.6                     0.8
URBAN                              3.6        3.2       2.9                  3.5                     1.4
CRE   IRT  RATE (PER THOSAND)       23.5       19.0      17.0                 23.6                    14.5
CRIDE DEAT RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0        9.0       9.0                  9.2                     9.3
CGRtS REPRODUCTION RATE              1.4        1.3       1.1                  1.6                    0.9
FAKILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL THSAS)            ..                   _.
USERS (PERCEtr OF MARIED laM)       ..       59.0
FOOD AND wTRTION
IDMEX OF fOO MRODCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          85.0       93.0    117.0                 116.0                   111.1
PER CAPITA SUkFLY OF
CALORIES (PECENT OF
REQUVIENES)                     128t.1     130.0    135.51c              125.1                   130.8
PROEINS (CRAMS PER DY)            95.5       93.3    100.9/c                92.7                    97.1
OF WHIC  ANIMUL AND PULSE       28.6        31.7     39.2/i_              35.9                    61.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) (RTrALITY RAZE     11.2        4.3      2.0                   9.2                    0.5
HEALTH
irE EUPECTANC AT BIRTH (YEARS)      63.2       66.7      70.5                 67.6                    73.8
INFANT ONALTY RATE (PER
TOWSAND)                            92.0       53.1      32.5                 65.1                    11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
YP011ATION)
TOTAL                               ..        33.6       .
tRBAN                             42.4       62.0
ImAL                                ..        12.3
ACCEqS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENrT 
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
RURAL                               .. L.
POPMLATION PER PUISICIA           1616.2     1O00.1    762.4/c              1105.4                   620.7
OPUUJLTION PER IRURSING PERSON     632.6/d    606.4    361.91c               634.4                   246.9
POPuATION PER osPrrIAL MD
TOrAL                            185.51d    177.1    165.81.               286.8                   122.0
URBAN                             91.4ri     95.7    101.7/;               192.0                   140.6
UVAL                            1035.5/d   1603.9   1835.3/.
AINISSIONS PER KISPITAL ZED                    17.3      18.2ja               20.0                    17.7
NOUS1IUC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                              4.O        3.8       3.8/. 
URBAN                              3.3        3.2       3.3re
UIRAL                              4.4        4.3       4.1/..
AVERAGE IER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              1.6        1.4
URBAN                              1.7        1.3
RURAL                              1.5        1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF NIELLINC )
IOTAL                             54.5       87.9
URBAN                             92.7       98.4
RIRAL                             36.1       80.1



- 25 -                                                          ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL IIDICATORS DATA SHET
YUGOSLAVIA                      REFEIENE GROUPS (ICEtCHD AY;2AGES
- NMST RECENT ESTIMATR.-a
HDST RECE             DDE   EE            IDU5TfFD
1960 lb   1970 lb ESTLNATE /b            EUROPE           MARET ECDOMIES
EDUCATIOS
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PMDARY:    ToTAL               111.0      106.0     99.0                  102.4                  101.7
MALE               113.0      108.0     99.0                 107.1                   103.9
FEINAE             108.0      103.0     98.0                  99.0                   103.6
SECONDARY:  TOTAL               58.0       69.0      82.0                 60.2                    U8.4
MALE                63.0       71.0     86.0                  66.                     U3.46
FERUUE             53.0        58.0     78.0                  56.0                    84.2
VOCATIONAL EROL. C. OF SECONDARY)   ..       26.4     20.5                  31.6                    18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
RLAY                            33.0       27.1     24.9                  25.8                    20.3
SEC0NIURY                       13.0       22.4      18.9                  22.2                   16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)     77.0       83.5     85.01f                75.9                    98.9
CUDSUlTON
PASSENGER CARS PER MatSAND
POPULATION                       3.0       35.4     se-Stc                51.0                   338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      86.9      165.9    209.3                 157.2                  1021.7
TV RECIVERS PER THOSIAND
POPULATION                       1.4       86.3    189.2                 123.7                   403.6
HEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION PER
TmaSANDD POPMLATION               70.3       85.3    103.1                 112.3                   331.2
CISA A.NNUAL ATTESDA.CE PER CAPITA  7.0       4.5      3.3                   4.0                     3.6
TABOR FORCE
UTOTAL LAOR .'O11CE (T11OUS5ANDS)    8302.0  8837.71g 9622.2.
FEMALE (PERCENT)                35.0       35.9     36.0                  36.6                    36.0
ACHICULTCRE (PERCENT)           63.0       51.0      29.0                  38.7                    6.2
IDLNSD Y (PERCENT)              18.0       23.0     35.0                  25.9                    37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             65.1       43.4     42.2                  4.5                     45.4
MALE                              60.0       56.6      54.8                 56.3                    58.9
FEMALE                            30.9       30.6     30.0                  32.8                    32.4
ECODtaC DEPENDEICY RATIO             0.8        0.8      0.8                   0.9                     0.8
INCOHE DItRBUTIOS
PECNT OF PRIVATE INCONE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  16.4/b    15.11/   13.1 
HIGHEST 20 PERCT OF HOUSEHOLDS  1. 57ii    Ci.&7i   387                                           63.0
LOIEST ZO PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   6.97i    6.67i    6.6                    ,,                     5.5
LtUEST 60 PERCENT OF HOUSEoLDS  1907ii    18.47i   18.7                                           16.5
POERTY TARrET GROUPS
ESTULATED ABSLUTE POVERTY INCME
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ,.         ..        .
RURAL                                                                                              ,
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN
RURAL                             ,,         ,,    530.0                 406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
PoVERy ICOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN
RURAL
Not available
Not applicable.
lOTES
/a  The group averages for each lndleator are populction-weighted aritlelck .ea. Coverage of countries
among the Indicators depends on avalabilIlty of data and Is not unlform.
/b  Unlesa otbervise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
ind 1971; and for Most Recent Estlmte. betwen 1978 and 1980.
Ic  1977; Id 1962; /e 1976: /f 1975: 2S Including sigrants workers abroad. /h 1963: 11 1968.
Nay, 1982



EaR.                                                                                                                atonn   nnioM  Po. aabai
loausq  o~i t-last  M0 tois         tId' Ad -, ots                                                                                               P a-*13901   qaa-i- 3   otaa  o0-"
ooMan  "tt 2011. 900                                                                     a.I15   dfidSf  3-p.09     -  tII-e fI-"01P Pa  %aaia t  arti-  Lda
t.S.s    a--la   --ai-ISIdd .ogltd-a  sitat    alaota
atom.A fan (t-flP- A0--- hlAnd?;idad sbO ij -1A,
SM           P--%                    A.~~~~~~J  is  . a-23.0 A1402     flaoo da01 1-N  op pIta--n 001 Zn -i
satato--. -~  105 300090)2          mtidJ.g  toitj9P - 10i tWI                             De  -%I..1   091W  Lt-    wa-M ..ddP .3in  *Md- * 'I 1t sq    o
S 003- ]--P M, 31a11 Jo  fl  AotS-la   atJ.-taIp   911         d :atOst ll 009  aa  OoPSI                       n  2005300210n J-    Wo  t TdOS  a  (.10- -
Id.sa   Att Mn. PS.ia  ..-.2 aa   094 sta T.."        p A. A  03j..asa M                    r.z-.       tS               - ttaa  iiot  Jo  ..Sooaji -_   P---,a,t
1- 00  300 -oaq  - da-b) 104 911) t5M da--t *As-aad sotlO  0.10-ttpsala    aiatoh03.51-  30103   "~M-,) ALMO - s
t- a'  4tina .Td 3003-a             AMtoa    jdti  ae        iz-Wnt..-T M00   aooi  -                                oa3 - (oaId" tn-oiia)3-oow*    s   ai-m
watata . I     .aaa  Ii    -i   ood-doi                  i  n.d .aojtaqv                                --I-p fst 9-3 . Bias. allttt   iwoOTa adaN   03
~~aai10at a190530ta0t 9110 POlOidiatol  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       -P 11P-0911                    OiOp '01 4w. P-Ot *ll, -923.-t
GI 1-d          T.  M;  ____A$01333 9 01131                                                                                                      ats
ooIIJtS]iU$t  3.01                                                                                     -ato
tINS Pot -Let  1t90        , -A a-oI 03 aaaoi   ali-.05  a3
--i-u  snat ma.ott              p-, 50 1540. a-taad - WIfi  V.. tt3. 0-J AIddoA oaiad 02110 3,
oM ba       St p- .a ui..Pa oaiiaa   0  t   - Zott         .-oZaa Iiq  _sot                                          Plo  3353  a-  5G  ft-loit tLA-.S p-ao 91109  P1191
P-. -1.              -i.saoboai-.0-l  daoaaioaoa a-  Sa P-  A-" pa-Sad*pi P                                          t1 50 A.Ooiam  -   -    1 *.iI~   iaotn 
*-  -pas  sI. Il- p..C   uataldo   o ftt j     -t-P lost -aatt.to au-nIt (1r  i otatId   lot_ Ja    PI-"l1  50  G0nI 33-9t 53 0510-d T-
-   a   ljlat  at-ag  pa     -jt.oMi 10i -- Stad--- nPiLt.ta-at-''A -J    is or, M    A   "M,d .ttt t-x aa .ta -t. ag,J it.ta
'0 IaItadIiiti9s -  11  -al-n -    -            tg5t~--   poa2 P- & 014) 0  1  oaI    -i-ta.. - t-P  M3.0    Iii   o.fo    ta   a
3.ntrooo3.to -g-         al  a  n-i s-tn -                  -tnss -d  f31.20P0*aiOoa   0oa  tsaP.a-30
.00   nt ed.M    t5  tto    t1 tt O02054   Oalt'DeaAlt a-touI-II3.IaOO A-IiWtf"`92t09 30  A,711=.23
P.. I.ttoa-  isioa-s  blowTs -t   al ao -       -."   lfllY1iili                          Ol  s-s Md- tontot lh  -n root UNA At P.-a:tO.  -a  onso.loa
-aua  s-tO  joi  Ja aitta.a  an at-; JOIo 01.004 -  15           -15Tii,                                 M.ltiti   020300  P-~ *3ia)               03-' 3. P...       3
-.iP loss roo cmi aoflg !.It.3ant*po*   paa3l tlat  ari-a .-Itd'  t-t  -t- M-t .03.0  pa  o05d
is      as.i    ta  ow inaitiotjm   -odto It* A. oaiioldS                         oat -isd-i                 n3iaOri  ita   aa iati`d. Mttoi-,  -Lop
bijasa    ia    2010  ans.aa3.pt                  . -as-daoa.pa   ats;                      a   nutn al Ai-oa  ai Mtaliata 00ud.. -a0 t-. 30              rd.oToalAla Li
P_ i.  Iti -t aaad -11)3  All"  no      3009)33115200                                                 g30a5 - (0 CaM-p&hn  p- tiaiol  -itOtO  gO slidO   M110  sad
oSin .219             o~INIp- Law-al tan al totalnpa t ilAilisP  .(11000 s-  a.-) p    P--a
000   01)  1~aisp  . oaioiop*   rtsi   s-   at  ot:op-10- 14 Ot,lt                     "- *mai.a 01S. M-P. M223-1014,i9 .(3o000 JO            pn-. aAosi-o
-atnboat iais-n  J oaIlso_t  oa.   ... asa  Sl A.  .ia._.s  M~                   at oiaP-  (alt-ii..a - (aa "-3 ot  31...tsI
050*0.*13a05n  00so   uajo    3009)a   )la   1300 o-iSJOaOoastPM0--   OlO  g   .034  .afI-t.dod  Ia
01 taaiait 30  010a35 01 -   Ostaqbpoa3.ost 100  0-013,                         ft*1                                                           *iiS_     Id  Z~7 _4NA
Mqa~~-                            M  '-A,-.i300ti   -0912....5101             A1    a-   t   njIn.o3 a-tda   30 1-            OISw       tto3-tiiIt JOl
303.i0   ttos-da  ot  a La nia5   0505 ia   030   t 1-i3    at a- hao-dt   oia                                    000ot)i.a -odn   -at*dt
S   03230  latoOdd  0  00013  adJ'aa   WsioS            OtOtP-S                        pa  tLI0091 .1 biPoa -aloa-  nidA--il Alt-   to!                ilIa
02903- s-aalaio .3a aadEi it       .tfa   p-aoT. -ad  nI.-%ta  01P0                               titaoabll-t  ii                   .   Al i  rtiai   -1~
s-ta asia- 030) nbioaoj - (oOttord P-----"t aS   *31ia.                            a.ua  oia.t a               -ott..      - (poonOi 3-0) -too qto  03.
002M5dt~~~~~~~~                           -flo  Ifli  0. loLt  119&(  i-tioldad -ai
-42.  0. P00--t. 3A4 09032   il l        - (3001003 504) _3.0 %-ltO 001
-C ipa pas 01    A 10  0-113  ato-ott  -1 Ita0d  015SOOt  lW0901   00   003t n-O- 'o- (liad   030  -30.  aatOa
ooialt-t  ipoOt   0. ot-osida9, A03  ISt-                           da-aLmi A0 oato,..a    to ..pa-aoa           ) 301- pa   (tsoi ,
030 033003 toaooaiasai  ao jo  saL At 1 LI 3  Att1    id05                                                     -flp  oo  pa.  P-e aWl ?o0i3)'Al-
afl aOlissOdi boolit 30910) 30  t0020200tfeA",                              p.l"I o(03239lt  itAiit -P al. 31  oou3o.d0   aa-n  -
Ls -ao200.-0aaa  -q aolpaao lOt-too-M.Ldowasat001                                                                 -%03ai q                     i-A-stO -.1.00
-a " l0 - lO dstJi    1 "Aaq  50-01-n  a0Oti- -   bi                                         soat. -pnda   -ita    a   atp                    ..-gIOt -..0;
ont500  30-0  LA- tlaliiotiO-30 1a-s-2-tn-- R.                                                                              102aO- nOd- al~o   Allitiaj
-`31313..3  Lja-ts  A. otbttaJOsp s-I tj              010  31                            S-119500   t 300 rf    snidw ott -t aItOtO"d -d 01. 5001-10
21-4 P.b oaspIttt aaPl.  Lltooa   atq350113  A-0023                                         -sflt. Pa-oaS 91 30 A.  iOq M. 09101.anti3lfoo
:ia    30atoi - ta-i Lao.-  osa .00-0   :t. A- aa-ln.o                                        Lsotti   u9  *,l.-oo  flI-.,         -ds              i-s-l9.
3-4         3-100a                    to 1P`  -pa  a -Ni 91  191 MU1*   i00  9351    tt
- I3030  - 03    0t.-3 - t    llaUIt-  JO ta-la)   MliJla    01  A03't-i  .OA pa to-O  a--I M Snps-   A13                                - Litus-  -t  oi1l - na
pa .0Oii- OOOOi-  taIii  1Ml2l1W   -AlIaattdaO   ao11f1lhP                                       -a 13. O iitt  iA-tad- .1051 01-   pa 'tta  a--I 011d01
20002.0-03  304013  103a  300t093  IiO T    0    asi                         0  dAi.A..     tit31.iotn*1    %2319 -. L3A-t-da lit  o-11l
3  aOoiaoa 111311 30  ~a09d0  1010i   ad *-:303 _          031                        -39  30 3S.13-.0         I.00  1122. -05 oi-aOl  aots-os    0i
ts,s  i.-l    oi.  O        A- j-PiO .I 3 dos.0ti 3. P1190-s   0-                             am,asP-                                                      Ti" .-.3iiD0I.
p3-i3000091  ~O01 - sit000304)92100-0  50301  000w                                       009 lSt        0L1  0tt tal.i.ai3-      o
M -     . =_             Lfopt    iftoisiIs    10300   010~0-iOt0 tOflP
..ItIS   00201091   0  110- 210  P   011.-.P)add013
-apa 5030w-I 13 A  ~pM0Pmnwn.a.. 0-g                                                                                  -ato
0-00912950 O  -010130  O  iw-  bot-P0  101d1  sl atolof             tt p   *3530ft  I        lar.a o -(03           4  301.033*0ii000l  210
t0t0  df3.  i..9191)0  03  atv.ttat302101SUtlJ   01                                                                                    0fIIO
pa_     109atdIo109%oldo  11.01 3_301a1-1."3                                                                                                        06313-)
10130ta1  104100  bpta  O131iotttItOtObJ   7-3.13 -td f    3-,l 00 A                                                                          t0.Aost p    0fl  a
3013.Aioaia    Onlt  io. -        td-4ln "101I11                                       :019t-liSt)p ooi9  to-  P3309 a   oo-0iOaIbOA30not)
0109   oti-  O 3O      etoaaa- Iltii  3911 SjOdad -30-  9-3d0                                                              d                                AM
pa_aaa .0st41.       *a- P- tooO -OO   %a0300  P- oiO    -I.030 Ma    201                Lol-.I" s-.. mie-                 -.a" 30310t13  30 me -A3-ttotOis
-oal033 of&%lg
(lsoIl)02)   sokat 50q oaootq ..s-ot 0  j    -Jusp   a-a-I30                 0ta19t 331-aa                  -aa.do   3.--    3    n5 tdotao) 43-3.1 -  .Ct
930~~~. a2e                                                                                  -T9p -
AIt XSNNV3A-M  -t                                                                                         .a.%-M  33-1 1  4



- 27 -
AIuN I
PageW &4 ef 6
Pcpulation: 22.3 mill1on Imid-191)
CUP Per COpita: US5.790 (1951)
?1E051.AfLA - ECISIC INDICATOS
MSOSe                                               Annual Grow    A C   (2)
(million US$ at                                        (at eonutent 1972 nrice.)
la.caeor                   current prices)                                Actual                                     cI        r.cSe,_d
19W c/          197S     1976     1977    1D7       1979     19U      1951      1952     1953     iW911    1955     1990
HarIwasi. ACCOUKsm
Cros doestmc product ./         69.232            0.9      5-2      5.4       8.5      4.2      2.2      2.2    -1a0    -1.7         2.0      2.7      4.3
Agriculture                    8.51b           -2.6      6.4      5.7    -5.4        5.4      0.0      1.0      5.G      0.0       2.0      2.0      2.0
Industry                      25.801            7.4      4.1      9.5      9.3      5.5       3.I      1.4    -Z.7    -2.0        3.0      4.0       6.0
Services                      24.993            1.4      5.3      7.1      13.1    -2.0    -2.2        3.4     -1.0    -2.0        1.0      1.5      3.0
Cons.pttn                       48.150           -3.3      0.0      9.8      1330      3.5      0.6    -1.1    -0.7    -1.7          2.5      2.4      39
-Crose inveutment                23*21b           10.1       3.6     17.4    -3.2      12.0    -3.2    -1.2       -6.0      0.0       L.0      3.2      4.0
Exports of CIIS                 14.053            1.1      10.4    -2.0      4.8       2.6     12.6      9.;      -:.     -1.0       ..a      6.0      6.8
Imports of CUFS                 16.799           -1.3    -6.6       16.1     2.5      12.0    -9.7    -2.6   -10.5    -2.0          5.7      6.0       5.6
Cross nstional  avings          19.619           14.7    20.6       5.6    -3.1        j.4       5.8      -        -        -         -        -       -
PRICES
CUP detlarer (1972 -100)           411          170      206       232      260      313      411         575      731      -         -        -       -
Exchan  rate                        24.9         17.4    18.2    18.3    18.6         19.0     24.9       35.5     51.3     -        -         -       _
SharW of CDP at Narket Prices II)                                 Average Annual Incree (2
(at currsc prices) b/                                         (at constant 1972 prices)
1960     1970      1975     1980      1985      1990               1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   195G-55   1985-90
Grass D-sastxc product a/     100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0         100.0     100.0                 5.9       6.5       5.7       0.5        4.2
Agrielcure                   22.5    16.3       13.8    12.3       13.1       11.8                 3.3       2.9       2.4       2.0       2.0
Industry                     42.2    37.4       4.3    41.6        41.4      44.7                  6.3       8.3       7.0       0.3       5.9
Serwic--                     29.0     38.1      33.1     36.1      35.7      33.6                  6.9       4.7       4.3       0.2       2.9
uaospetue                      67.2    72.5       74.3     70.4      69.2       68.6                 6.5       6.9       5.4      -0.2       4.0
Cross invest_n                 36.5    32.3       33.5    30.5       29.0      29.0                  4.7       5.5       5.3      -0.9       4.1
Exports CliS                   13.9    15.5       20.2    27.7       29.3       33.0                10.2       6.7       5.7       1.5       4.1
Imports GUTS                   17.5    23.5       25.0     31.4      27.5      30.7                  9.8       6.7       2.5      -1.5       6.5
Cress esciunal sing              32.6    29.6       25.6    2853        29.5      29.9                 5.3       6.2       6.S        -          -
As I of CDP
1960    1970       1975=   1980      1951
PUSLUC FISAK
Totel revenue                  27.9    33.1       36.8    34.0       32.3
TotaL eIpenitures              2461     33.2      37.2    34.b       31.6
-..rpluv () or deficit 1-)      3.3      0.1      -0.4      0.6       0.6
Foaisn finaning                 0.0      0.0      -0.4      0.0       0.0
1960-70  1970-75   1975-60  1980-55   1985-90
lUIER IlNDICATOIS
GiNP grovths rate CZ)           6.1      6.7       5.7      0.1       4.2
Caw per capita groth0 rate      5.0      6.6       4.7    -0.8         3.3
_         IcOM                            5.4      4.6       5.8    35.3        7.0
Import elasticity               1.6      1.0       0.5    -3.0        1.5
of At svaer prices: components are espreaed at factor coat and will not ad  up to total due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidie.
b/  Projected year- at costant 1972 prices.
w       l  Etimste.
DlSA IC
April 19. 1953



- 23 -
Zs ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~n    s f 
LAx I
Page- 5 o 4
Popiletiono 22.3 million (mid-1981)
CUP Fer Capita: 082.790 (1I38)
ncoSLAVn  - usuaL Tam
_ut                                                    aeI|X  Grwth Mates (3)- 
(million USt at                                        (at Ceaut 1972 Iriega)
iadicator                 currant pritea)                               Actual                                      of                Proitctd
(1951)          19TS      197t      1977     1975      1979      lio0   19U   e1932  1983    1934   1935    199J
In-
Hrchandica axporta             10.206            0.0      14.5     -5.3       1.0       1.6      11.0   11.7    4.2   0.5    6.0    6.0    7.0
Priary S1                     1.709           -3.1    1.4        3.9       1.5       2.0       2.5  -14.6    1.9   0.5    6.0    4_0   7.0
Nnatactures b/                3.495            0.4      13.9     -3.3       0.3       1.5      13.    19.0   -7.3   0.5    6.0    4.0   7.0
Uerchdiae Importa              14.523          -2.3      -e.5      15.5       3.3      12.9    -10.5    4.9  -19.0   0.3    8.6    6.0   5.5
Fond                            gas         -40.9      45.8       4.3    -24.2       35.4     -2.3   -7.4  -13.1   0.0    5.0    4.0   4.5
Petroleum  l                  3,742           -5.0      10.1     12.0      11.4       7.3     -e.2   -1.4  -14.2    3.0    5.0    6.0    7.0
.Nacaenry ed  equipmet         3.756          22.3      -8.3      17.3       7.1      15.4    -17.4  -15.4  -12.7  -5.4    9.4    6.0   6.0
Otbhra                        6.123          -11.9    -12.7      22.1       4.4       3.3      .7.0    0.0  -14.1   2.0    9.4    6.0   5.1
PflcKS (197a - 1OuJ
Export price index                316          172      I80       202       220       259       303    314    336   354    353    411   5S0
Import prices  dex                352         134       159       216       226       Ul1      337    342    349   3e3    3S4    407    560
T-r_  of trade index               39.7         93.5     95.2      93.5      97.3      92.2     91.4   91.8   96.3  97.6   99.S  101.0  93.3
Coumpeition of Merchandise Traed CZ)                               Average Annual Incrase (2)
Cat current prices) dl                                        (at emetant 1972 price )
1960     1970      1975      193       195S    1990                1940-70   1970-75  1975-10  1930-35   P,85-90
Seorta                                 100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    1o0.0                    3.1      57        5.1      2.5      4.3
Primay Al                             49.6     29.4      19.5      22.0      21.0      21.0                 -       -1.3       6.0      2.7      4.3
anfaEtWures bI                        50.4      70.4     30.5      73.0      79.0      79.0                 -        3.1       4.7      2.4      4.3
lmports                                100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                    9.0       7.4       4.1    -1.6       6.5
Food                                   9.1      7.2       5.5       7.2       3.S      3.0                  -        5.0      14.9    -4.0       S.4
Petroleum c                            5.4      4.8      12.3      23.6       3.7       3.6                 -        8.2       7.2      1.3     4.1
achmsery and equipment                34.5     33.2      33.9      28.0      29.2      29.7                 -        9.4       3.1    -3.4       6.9
othara                                46.7     54.3      48.3      41.2      53.4      53.6                 -        6.0       3.5    -0.7       6.5
Share of Trade with              Umare of Trade with        Share of TVrde with Capital         Sbarn of Trade. with
Lnduetrial Cwutrier CZ)          Developing Coitrie  (2)       Surplus Oil Eportere CZ)    Centrally Planned  ceonwie- (2)
196s   1970    1975    1931    1965   1970   1975   1981   1965   1970   1915    1S9t    1945   1970   1975   19s3
DIUCSIWc OF T1UE
Esporte              40.1   53.3    34.0    31.0    17.4   13.4   16.3   13.3   0.4    0.7    2.1   11.3    42.1   32.4   47.1   45.9
Primary            61.0   70.Z    54.0        -       9.1    3.2    8.9       -      0.2    0.2    1.9      -       29.7   21.4   35.2       -
Manufactures      27-0   41.9    2640         -      23.5   17.1   20.0    -         0.4     1.0    2.1    -        S.4   39.9   51.9       -
Ieports              55.3   66.1    59.1    50.1    14.0   12.7   15.7   15.3   0.1           0.1    0.6    9.1    25.6   21.1   24.6   30.7
a/ SITC 0-4
it SIT; 5-3
e  SITC 3; includes lubricate. coal aId electricity.
d  Ptoj eted FrM  at ConUcnt 1972 price.
D   Ic
My 24. 1983



or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P3 r                                          .1 e or S 
TlsouAvz& - MMiAn OF PaUIuur3. smnTmm CwFIn, AM tur
fltp.3n.:  22.3 millie. (mid-1951)
cG  Fr.  "p.t. 0 a12.790 1ss933
ftdi-xor                                                                  et_I Irof
1970      3975        1916       3977       316        1979      39I   1931         3I9Z or       191        3          35         39
OF102 ophnmurs
Epot.   0 1               ." otie            3.07       8.012      91,3      3O.         U          U 12..09  14,271    13.300 20.007    19.41?  20.974  23,535     26,40      45.77?
.o flahck   frctl adiso f..b.              1.479      4.075      4,393      5.191      530        4.9        5,975 I0204    10.247         11.019      12.l35    14.374      25 .21
imorts 0      t _ d .rEc-                    3.385      9.013      59P71      1.932    133212      11.937     20.592 20.954   20.340         20.924     73.73O     26.1t      41.191
o flackh  .r-haodna  .i                    Z.8174     2.G9?      7.26?      9.739     10.439       .019     35.065 14.523    13.234        13.3917     15397      17.29S     32.515
Not twins 1t                                     -          -          -          -          _          -          _      -         _             _                      -     
torcoot accoomo b-l*-.o -345    .4.003                                165    .4.344      -1.233    -31641    -2,22    942         -44             52        -195         1         S5
Privato 4,r.et jg".........                                ..         ...tSt  -  - . . -  -  -            _               -      _                -          -          -     _
_f ? - t   Co.. fot)                           194        "I       1,094      1,412      l.339      1.009      2.410    33        tic          1.429       42         -459        554
Ottu"i[                                       I         244        213         41        123        131         S9  1.313     1.00          1.546      2.495      1.95I         63q
P.-.C.                                       175        705        951      1.3171     1.26         375      2.351  -5S        -920          -120     -2.014     -2.225        -3
ocher capate El                                13         131        11          43        541      ,451        457   34?       -19             917         10        119      -490
...0 to r-       .                             114         aS    -1.375        -131       .412      1.145       -775   -z33     1.012        -3.000       *47?       -390        -751
totoromlacoal t denos s*                       276      3.502      2.330      3.011      3.663      Z.*41      3.273  Z.687     1t,1s         2,.75      3.152      3.142      5.712
OI        G eld  Wlfricil Sxlttt_            51         42         63                    G 69       73         To    73         is            75          in         71         7I
l..    ..   otb. import.                         1.0        2.0        3.3        3.0        3.3       137         1.9    1.5       1.3           3.5        3.4        1.6 b       1.
101UAL CAPITAL 4SID OA?
Groom da1.b-rmomot.                            41l    1364?        2.09       2.4S       2.500      2,435      4.154  2,710     2.054         4.115      3.0"        ,675      31.526
Official ran.                                  -          -          -          -          -          -          -      -         -             -          -          -           -
Uaaoool Io_                                   47        134        134        1                      1          20    12          -             - 
VAt                                          0         71         62         AG         13         11        I3       5         -             _          _          _
OPEC                                         -          -          -          -          _          _          _      -         -             -           _          _          -
10                                          -          -          -          -                                _      _         _             _ -                    _ -
thor_*675                                              63         72         93         13          2          5      4         -             -          -          -          -
keon-toecm.a.o.  loon.                       573      2.03?      1.9U2      2.50Z      2.713      2,423      4.134  2,755     2,044         4,134      3.009      3.75      13625
uttcal aPoCt credt.                         39        203        253         73         76    e     0         33  1,375     1,014         1.3          III    l    41        440
1two                                        32        154        11         133        350        294        253   735        253           545        517 s35              1i5
Other  aItaI.t.ial                           -          -          -          -          a         24         336 "             -
Naval.                                     497      1.45       1.560      2,293      2.49       2.041      3,757  1,0I9       us          2,20       2.000      ,.000      1,000
T.Aol *ap.t credi Iot)                        (-373      (-02)     (-100)     (-1833     (-10)      (-125)     (-3001 (1933    3-2001         (-220)    (-240       (-13        f-3902
External dabt
ob  eu-taeoda n-d
daxbw-.d                                 2,053   5 ,320        7,177      3,9s5     13.11?     13.6Is     1S,s 16.156    16,237          37,714     18,378     3.303      22.952
Olfif... l                                 354      2.32?      2,.19      3,005      3,410      3,662      4.552  5,019     5.069         7,.63     10.3L5     32.273     23,151
Priate                                   1.199      3.493     4,310       5.571      7.70?      9.944     10.9  11,133    10.Z13        30.093      5.042      5,337       -205
.di.bnr_d 4.b.                               943      2.971      2.525      4,435      3.713      3.,17      2.542  1.947     3.553         1.515      1.4r      13,0          53  1n
D,,t a.nroa  .1
Te-al  _c. p"-ct.                             03      1.441      1.440      3.19s      3.36       2,125      2.441  3,490     3.,07         4,394      4,355      1.033      S.S.v
Itteat Li                                  128       289        302        367         575       521         W5  1.757      3.33          1,710      1.961      2,3.5      2.,27
ayo_oto - 2 oertn                             14.b       11.0       15.3       15.4       14.9       14.9       13.3  15.4       19.3          21.0       35.5       18.9       12.2
rran-.,    tr   r mo anox. lon-. (2)             741        *_1        71         7.4         .7        5_0        3.4   12.7      11_.9         313        12.5       12.9        14.0
Official                                       7.0        3.3        7.0        7.3        7.7        -          -      -         -             -                     -          -
P ivoto                                        7.5        7.5        5.4        9.3        5.7        9.5        -      -         -             _           _
A-rs _e -ty of o  laxta (yan                    13.5       15.2       18.3       15.4       15.1       10.3       10.1  10.1       11.2            1.4       10.3      1043        9.0
official                                      13.5       14.5       10.0       15.9       I5l         -          -
Private                                       10.9       10.9        5.7        7.5        -          -          _      -         _             _          _           _          _
!I  Ealafla-
1  lacLoda. -t o. ot W credit (drfip Xee  opoeT , t ma                      O ont-tn troit  od bea_o  In bi3xtrl
0i  ZacldmsZ grn   -to-      aUtee    t oceorciel ban.
dl ZKoral boro-og roportod iL. hl teb-ct  bT lce of pymt. im -t ooiatoat wjr  ot-ooml ufbt dote,                                                    Eizl IC
di  Woe-c   nLdax acrcttion  _  ixt-et a  --ort -rodit etedd  y  s laia.                                                                             April 19. 193l
1 Age- 1931. aIxod   i-t-rot pofn. 1 m-   f W  r e  Trre.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
TEE STATUS OF-BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA L
A. STATEhENT-OF BANK LOANS (as of-March 31i-1983)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year            Borrower(s)           Pumw Je          Bank  Undisbursed
Forty Loans fully disbursed                                   1,339.46
916    1973   Naftagas                    Gas Pipeline          59.4     8.05
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda        Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources           20.0     0.22
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &     Vater Supply S
Sewerage Enterprise         Sewerage             45.0     0.07
1360    1977   Management Organization     Multipurpose
"Metohija"                  Water                54.0    31.73
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka          Agriculture
Titograd                    Industries           26.0     2.60
1371    1977   Stopauska Banka Skopje      Agriculture
Industries          24.0     3.11
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in     Second Power
each Republic               Transmission         80.0    11.06
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka          Second Agricul-
tural Credit        75.0     7.74
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railvays                   Railways             100.0     3.01
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina         Hydro Power           73.0    11.48
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina     Third Industrial
Credit              40.0     7.90
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit              20.0     1.44



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purose            Bank Undisb,ursed
1613    1978   Stopanaka Banka Skopje       Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       3.90
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka           Fourth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0       1.53
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation          82.0        0.71
1621    1978   Privredna Banka              Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                     Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0      31.20
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia        Roads                148.0      41.95
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka             Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0      33.14
1768    1979   Port of Bar                  Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0      33.63
1769    1979   Railway Organization         Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                ilitation-
Railways             14.0       7.61
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka           Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0      56.11
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                125.0      76.42
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Fifth Industrial
Credit             50.0       46.55
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit             30.0       11.14
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka           Fifth Industrial
*                           Titograd                      Credit              20.0      19.31
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka              Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit              10.0       2.80



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cangcellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                  Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0       74.63
1977    1980   Priatina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways               34.0      26.22
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina      Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0       83.22
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Agriculture            80.0      67.04
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                      Kosovo Water Supply  41.0       29.22
2132    1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial        33.0      32.51
Credit
2133    1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje       Sixth Industrial       33.0      32.51
Credit
2136    1982   Privredna Banks Sarajevo    Agriculture             35.0      34.48
2161 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6         34.60
2233 1/ 1983   Regional Work Organiza-      Tuzla Water Supply   30.0        30.00
tion KOMPRED                and Environment
Total (less cancellation)                              3,214.46    898.84
of which has been repaid                                597.21
Total now outstanding                                  2,617.25
Amount sold                            9.2
of which: Amount repaid               9.2
Total now held by Bank                                 2,617.25
Total undisbursed                                                   898.84
1/ Signed but not yet effective.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESThENTS (as of March 31. 1983)
Fiscal                                        Type of          Amount in USt mi,llion
Year            ObliLor                      Business          Loan   EqJuity   Total
1970   International Investment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia         Corporation        -       2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry            9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KID)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                           Industry         16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5     2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9      -       70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0      -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0     -       10.0
1975   1MK Zenica                           Steel             50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                     Processing        4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                          Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                    Tourism           21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery         18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial          Small-Scale
Banks                              Enterprises      30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           16.5    -       16.5
1982   Industrija za automobilski           Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)       & Accessories    11.3    -         11.3
Total Gross Commitments                               315.7    11.8   327.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                           173.5      5.2   178.7
Total commitments held by IFC                         142.2     6.6   148.8
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                          38.7     0.8    39.5
z



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/ (As-of March 31. 1983)
Loan 916 Naftagas-Pipeline:  US$59.4 Million-Loan of-June 25, 1973;
Effective Date:  harch- 22, 1974; Closing Date;  June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles,
organizational change, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and
the Bank eventually agreed to divide the loan into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Vojvodina
and Serbia are now under construction. The only outstanding major contract
still to be awarded before the current closing date concerns Butangas'
telecommunications and supervisory control and data acquisition (SCADA)
systems. Depending upon early contracting of the SCADA system a further and
final extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Developme,nt-Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Wate,r Resources:  US$20.0 Million Loan of June 14  1976  Effective
Date:--November 3, 1976; Closing Date:, DecemberI-J1,_l9821_(account
left open).
After some initial delays, the project is progressing
satisfactorily. Major works still to be executed are the Vrutci dam and
water supply distribution and sewerage network in Titovo Uzice. The loan was
closed on December 31, 1982 (after two extensions) but the account remains
open to allow disbursement in respect of expenditures under contracts signed
before the closing date.
Loan 1263  Sarajev,o Water -Supply and Sewe,rase: US$45.0MKillion Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date:,November 9i 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982; (account left open).
Construction works are proceeding well and the project is
substantially completed. The loan was closed on 12/31/82 but account remains
open to allow final disbursements.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan,1360 Metohija Multipurpose W,ater: US$54.0 Million Loan of February 3.
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closinp  Date: Dece,mber 31,
19&3.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed.  Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule
and the Closing Date has been postponed initially by one year to
December 31, 1983. Contract for ICB procurement of G.R.P. pipes was signed
on January 22, 1983; however, it was necessary to reduce the scope of supply
to conform to the tender. Modified contract is expected to be validated on
April 8, 1983. The single remaining ICB contract for automatic regulation
equipment is expected by mid-May, 1983. Based on current progress, all LCB
contracts should be avarded by July 31, 1983. Irrigation system fnr about
1,200 ha will be ready by 1984. Completion of the total system is now
planned for December 31, 1984, which will fit in with current plans for land
consolidation.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture-and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977_; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30L 1983.
The project is substantially completed. The winery operations are
completed and operational. Farnm center construction is complete and farm
roads are nearing completion.  The completed irrigation system is supplying
2,014 ha under vineyards and orchards. The loan is 902 disbursed. Due to
high rates of local inflation costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by
about 602.
Loan 1371 Mac,edonia Agriculture, and-Second. Agro-Industries: -US$24.0:-Killion
Loan of March 10,, 197,7; Effective Date: July 27  1977-; Closing D,ate
June 30,, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-induatry facilities have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed. Contracts have been signed
and approved for the remaining sub-projects. All individual sector furnds
have been completed and disbursed. The loan is 87X disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmiss,ionu:, US_$80,.0 Million Loan of July 11, .1.977;
Effective Date: Janu,ary 31, 1978; Closin. Date: June 30i, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed with a delay of about two
years and the closing date has been extended by six months to 6/30/83, in



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
order to allow full loan disbursement. The loan is practically Eully
comitted.  The Borrowers have been advised that there would be no further
extension of the closing date.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credi,t  US*75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 19,78; Closing Date: August 31, 1983.
The loan in fully comitted and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 902 of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
conseq.zently the closing date has been exLended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: USU1O0 Million Loan of April,13,  1978; E,ffective
Date.: September 28. 1978; Closing Date: June  0,1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total USS 97.0 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Remedial actions will be agreed upon in the context of the
proposed loan for a Sixth Railway Project.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power; USS73 Million Loan of May 31, 1,9,78;
Effective Date: ,November 15, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30X., 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been complet^d and both Gr&ovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December li82. Part B, originally not financed
by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been delayed by problems with the
site geology and funding. The technical problems have been solved and the
detailed designs of the Mostar dam and power plant are now available.
Regarding the funding, a supplemental B.iik loan is now under consideration.
If action on this loan is taken before June 30, 1983, Part B of the Project
could be completed by December 1987, asr xming that funcing for the local
costs is forthcoming.
Loan 1611 Third- Industrial- Credit:  $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effectiv,e Date:  November 16,  d978; Closing Date:  April 30, 1983.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates due to late approval of two large "special subprojects" and
changes in the originally approved equipment lists and often incomplete



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit Department of the borrower
Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be weak, especially in terms of
proper project appraisal and supervision. This matter is being focussed
upon through frequent supervision. Also, institutional improvements will be
a maior component of a proposed new loan to KBP.
r
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614-Fourth Industrial-Credit:  $20.0 Million each
Loans of -July 26, 1978; Effective Date;  November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed.  Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are vell ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. The closing dates for all
three Loans have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December 31, 1983.
Loan-1616 Macedouia Strezevo IrrigAt~ion; US$82 -Million Loan of August 23,_
1978; Effective Date: -February 14,-1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982; (account left open).
Project constraction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open in order to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have bean ixade prior to September 30, 1982.
$81.29 million disbursed as of March 31, 1983.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina-Agriculture-and Agro-Industries; -US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective-Date: -March-28,-1979;
Closing Date: -June 30, L983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress ir- the individual sector has been resolved
and specific action programs have been agreed with the borrower and the
implementing agency. As of March 31, 1983 about 93 percent of the loan has
been committed and 45 percent disbursed. Given the stage of overall project
implementation, the most likely completion date would be December 1984.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway:  US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date:  August 14, 1979; Closing Date:  September 30. l984.
Project now faces delays of about 15 months because of reduced
road expenditures now planned by Government. Revised investment plans
prepared by all participants. All links are now committed. Works will now



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
extend to early 1984 in Kosovo, Vojvodina, Bosnia and Macedonia. Only
Montenegro Bas completed its program according to the original schedule.
Loan closing date has been postponed to September 30, 1984.
Loan 1756 Croatia-Sava Drainage.  US$51-Hillion-Loan-of October 1I. 1979;
Effective Date;- April 17i 1980;Closinu  Date; June -30, -'85.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Project management problems acd
inadequate funds together vith import restrictions had caused procurement
delays. Revised financing plan with assurance of funds has nov been
prepared and import restrictions for the project have eased. Studies on
sub-surface drainage had a delayed start. Progress on civil works, although
somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing. The loan
is 35Z disbursed.
Loan 1768-Mont ngr Earjthqua~ke Rehabiklitation --Port of Bar: US$50 Million
Loan-of November 30, 1979; Effective Date.-April 29, 1980;
Cloging Date: June 30, 1984.
The project is currently about two years behind schedule,
primarily due to delays in preparation of designs and contract documents for
civil works stemming from more rigid design criteria to withstand
earthquakes and from the lack of adequately experienced project and support
staff. Bank missions have repeatedly emphasized need to strengthen staff,
and port management has recently taken remedial action. Contracts for civil
works are in progress and should be completed by about May/June 1983 or
shortly thereafter. Bids for workshop equipment and for new tugboats have
been received and some contracts awarded by PBWO. Deliveries of equipment
and tugboats in early 1984 appears likely. The original closing date of
December 31, 1982 has been postponed until June 30, 1984 to allow for longer
than anticipated delivery period for remaining Bank financed items.
Loan 1769 Montenegro-Earthquake-Rehabilitation --Railways:.-US*14 Million Loan
of-November-30, 1979; Effective Date:.-April 29, 198; -Closinx-Date:
June 30. 1983.
Disbursements of about $6.39 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel. The Borrower's request for an
extension of the closing date is under consideration.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan-1801 Third Agricultural Credit:-USS86-Million Loan of February 29,,1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980;-Closing Date:.March 31, 1985.
Progress in commitments in the social sector is very slow.  In the
individual sector, 93% of funds are committed, while in the social sector
only 41? is committed. The agroindustry subprojects have still to be
identified in some Republics; and a few approved processing facilities are
behind schedule. The progress in physical implementation in the individual
sector is good. The loan is about 35Z disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of- Aril 23- 1980; Effective
Date: AuRust 7, 1980; ClosinR-Date: June 30,-1984.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
revieved. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays arising from shortage of local
funds, project completion vill be about 18 months behind schedule. The
closing date has been postponed by one year to June 30, 1984. Further
extension of one year might be necessary and wou'.d be considered on the
basis of project implementation in accordance with a revised schedule.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912-Fifth lndustrial-Credit; $50.0. $30., $20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively; Loans-of-February-9. 1981;
Effective Date: August 17;.1981; Closing-Dates;-October 31; 1984.
Loans 1910 (PBS) and 1912 (SBS) are being committed rapidly, while
commitments under Loans 1909 (KBP) and 1911 (IBT) are behind schedule.
Commitments by KBP and IBI started late due to external factors. but have
picked up rapidly and is expected to be completed within the currently
stipulated commitment period.
.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II:  $87 Million Loan-of April 13,
1981; Effective Date:  August 28, 1981;  Closing Da,te: De,cember
31. 1986.
Eighty-five percent of the loan proceeds are committed.
Withdrawals have commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is
due to procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. This has been taken
up with the Government in order to resolve the issue. As for the physical
iLplementation of the Project, progress is very good. In the individual
sector, about 800 livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards
are expected to be completed by the end of 1982, while 11 out of 14



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
agro-industrial facilities are under construction, of which 5 are likely to
become operational in the Spring 1983. Progress under the irrigation
component continues to be unsatisfactory. Action plans for support services
approved by the Bank and implementation is underway.
Loan 1977 Kosovo-Railway;  $34-.0 Million Loan of May-15, 1981;  Effective
Date:  November 16, 1981; -Closing-Date;  December 31, 1984.
After a slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
(SS&TT) equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Upon request of
the Borrower the Bank has agreed to a reallocation of loan funds which will
become surplus because of favorable results on the SS&TT contract and the
devaluation of the Dinar. The surplus funds will finance the acquisition of
four diesel motor trains for which a contract will shortly be awarded.
Loan-1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development; -t90- illion Loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981,;-Closing_Date;--June 30.,
l987.
About 251 of the Loan amount has yet to be committed and the
Borrower, KBP, is behind schedule in hiring requisite support staff. Six
agro-industry investors have signed construction and equipment installation
contracts and work has started. The investors for two other agro-industry
subprojects expect within the month to finalize contracts according to the
bid evaluation reports, after considerable delays due to the investors'
requests to change processing capacity or product line.  The four remaining
agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into consideration
changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of 2,000 ha of
plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to seven social
sector investors covering about 1,600 ha for vineyards and orchards. For
the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans for 300 ha of
vineyards. For the Groundwater studies component, the consultants have
completed the detailed terms of reference and cost estimates and started
work on hydro-geologic investigations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million Loan of
JulY 23, 1981; Effective Date:  January 6. 1982; _ 0sini. Date:L;
June 30, l987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule. The social sector vineyard (1.450 ha) and
orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store component (15,000 tons)
were fully committed. Individual sector investments are also ahead of



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
schedule.  Although nenr1v all fear;hility studies have been completed, the
small-scale irrigation component is behind schedule due to SBS appraisal
bottlenecks and to problems with generating the 20% local contribution to be
provided by the Communes.
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply:  41 Million Loan of December 14., 1981;
Effective Date;  April 14, 1982;-Closing Date;  June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Overall construction
progress has been good and the quality of construction is high. Contracts
for all major components of the project have been awarded. Due to several
contributory factors revised total project cost has been reduced which will
result in a savings of US$15.0 million from the Bank loan.
Loans 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: _$33 Million Loan
Each Loans of August 31, 182; Efetv-ae    ovember 23. 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 28, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily. $0.98 million disbursed as of
March 31, 1983.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development-Project;  *35 Million-Loan
of- Pay 4, 1982;_ Effective Date:- November2- 3;i 1982_;_ Closing
Date: March 31,.1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982. Bid Evaluation
Reports for all six agro-industrial processing facilities have been cleared
by the Bank. About 40% of the Contract Documents have been received while
others are awaited by end April 1983. Construction of about 60% of the
Popovo Polje Irrigation Project has been completed.
L          Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage:  $34.6 Million Loan of Kay-27,-1982;
Effective Date:  April 29i 1983; Closing-Date: -September-30.
1987.
The loan is not yet effective. The new Date of Effectiveness is
set for April 29, 1983. Federal ratification and legal opinion are awaited.
Loan 2233 Tuzla Water Supply and Sewerage: $30.0 Million Loan of
January 25, 19,83; ,Effective Date:  June 10_ 1983; -Closing Date:
December 31, 1988
The Project was appraised in March/April 1982. Loan documents
were signed on February 10, 1983. The loan is not yet effective.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA; INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section 1: Timetables of Key Events
(a) Time taken by Country to
prepare the project:                        October 1980 -
September 1982
(b) Project Preparation                        Kosovska Banka
agencies:                                    Pristina
Investiciona Banka
Titograd
(c) First Bank mission to
consider Project;                           April 1981
(d) Appraisal hission Dep;                     October 30, 1982
(e) Negotiations Completed;                    May 4, 1983
(f) Loan Effectiveness
Planned;                                    November 1983
Section II:  Special Bank ;mplementation Action
To arrange outside training for staff of borroving banks.
Section III: bpecial Conditions
A.        Effectiveness
Engagement of a development backing advisor, acceptable to the Bank
by KBP (para. 41).
h.        Other
(a) Protection against foreign exchange risk on the banks' savings
accounts (para. 43);
(b) Eligibility criteria for labor-intensive (para. 49) and
export-oriented (para. 50) sub-projects;



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) Remedies for non-compliance with employment and export
orientation targets (para. 50);
(a) Use of at least one-third of loan amounts for joint venture
projects (para. 51);
(e) iaximnm sub-loan size will be $4 million for labor intensive
and $5 million for export-oriented sub-projects, (para. 54) and
free limit $1.5 million for individual sub-loans and 60 percent
of aggregate loan amount for each bank; f.rst five sub-loans for
export-oriented sub-projects will be treated as above the free
limit (para. 55);
(f) Bank funds lent to sub-borrowers will bear variable interest of
at least 1.25% above the Bank rate; domestic funds lent to
sub-borrowers from the banks' own resources will carry an
interest rate of at least 18 percent (paras. 59 and 61).
L






