Documnt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
Repor, No. 9944
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(LOANS 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU AND 2339/2340-YU)
OCTOBER 3, 1991
Industry and Finance Operations
Europe Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - New Dinar
Market Rates
(at year end)
1980  US$ I =  ND 0.003      1986  US$ 1 -  ND  0.046
1981  US$ 1 =  ND 0.006      1987  US$ 1 =  ND  0.124
1982  US$ 1 =  ND 0.009      1988  US$ I =  ND  0.521
1983  US$ I =  ND 0.013      1989  US$ 1 -  ND 11.816
1984  US$ 1 =  ND 0.021      1990  US$ 1 =  ND 10.657
1985  US$ 1 =  ND 0.031      1991* US$ 1 =  ND 23.000
(* end-April)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOAL      -   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
EMENA     -   Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
FRR       -   Financial Rate of Return
FSAL      -   Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GSP       -   Gross Social Product
IET       -   Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka
KBP       -   Kosovska Banka Pristina Udruzena Banka
LDRs      -   Less Developed Republics and Autonomous Provinces
MDRs      -   More Developed Republics and Autonomous Provinces
NBY       -   National Bank of Yugoslavia
PBS       -   Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udruzena Banka
RAPs      -   Republics and Autonomous Provinces
SAL I     -   Structural Adjustment Loan
SAL II    -   Second Structural Adjustment Loan
SBS       -   Stopanska Banka Skopje Udruzena Banka
SDK       -   Social Accountancy Service
TORs      -   Terms of Reference
YBA       -   Yugoslav Banks' Association
BORROWERS' FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offico of Dlrector-General
Operations Evaluation
October 3, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Fifth, Sixth and
Savcnth Industrial Credit Projects
(Loano 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU. 213212133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Industrial Credit
Projects  (Loans  1909/1910/1911/1912-YU,  2132/2i33-YU  and  2339/2340-YU!"
prepared by the ENEMA Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thb documnt as a estricted dIttbudon and tay be ued by rdplentstay In the perforwmae of tbeIr oMda duLles.
Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed without World Bank euthorlmUonto



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH. SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(Loans 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . .iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . .1
A.  Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.  Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
C.  Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . .              3
D.  Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . .              6
E.  Project Implemertation   . . . . . . . . . . . .              9
F.  Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             10
G.  Project Sustainability   . . . . . . . . . . . .             12
H.  Ba,;' Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            13
I.  Borrower's Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . .             15
J.  Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . .             16
K.  Project Documentlrion and Data   . . . . . . . .             16
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE . . .              17
A.  Submission by PBS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             17
B.  Submission by S8S  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             19
PART III.  STATISTICAL INFORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              28
1.  Related Bank Loans   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             28
2.  Project Timetables   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
3.  Use of Bank Resources    . . . . . . . . . . . .             31
4.  Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             34
5.  Utilization of Loan Proceeds   . . . . . . . . .             37
6.  Status of Covenants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             40
ANNEXES
1.  Macroeconomic Developments and Policy Reform Since the
Early 1980's  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             47
2.  Structure of the Yugoslav Banking System in the 1980's                53
3.  Details of Subprojects Financed under the Fifth
Industrial Credit   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  55
4.  Details of Subprojects Financed under the Sixth
Industrial Credit   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  59
5.  Details of Subprojects Financed under the Seventh
Industrial Credit   ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  61
6.  Comparison of Adjusted and Non-adjusted Financial
Statements  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETIOt. REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIX:H AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(Loans 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
PREFACE
This is the combinedl Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth,
Sixth and Seventh Industrial Credits in Yugoslavia. Since the three credits
covered, between them, the same Borrowers and their implementation periods
overlapped with each cther to some extent, the combined PCR consists of a
synthesis of the overall experience under the three credits.
The Fifth Credit in Yugoslavia was financed by Loans 1909-YU, 1910-
YU, 1911-YU and 1912-YU in the amounts of USS 50 million equivalent, US$ 30
million equivalent, US$ 20 million equivalent, and USS 10 million equivalent
re.pectively. The Loans were approved on October 28, 1980. Loan 1909-YU
closed on October 31, 1986, two years behind schedule; the final disbursement
occurred on May 11, 1987 and an unutilized balance of US$ 0.56 million
equivalent was cancelled. Loan 1910-YU closed on December 31, 1985, 14 months
behind schedule; the final disbursement occurred on July 23, 1986 and an
unutilized balance of US$ 0.22 million equivalent was cancelled. Loan 1911-
YU closed on October 31, 1986, two years behin,' dchedule; the final
disbursement occurred on January 7, 1987 and an unutilized balance of US$ 0.34
million equivalent was cancelled. Loan 1912-YU closed on October 31, 1985, a
year behind schedule; the final disbursement occurred on April 30, 1986. The
loan was fully utilized.
The Sixth Credit was financed by Loans 2132-YU and 2133-YU, each in
the amount of US$ 33 million equivalent. The Loans were approved on April 27,
1982. Loan 2132-YU closed on December 31, 1987, on schedule; the final
disbursement occurred on June i0, 1988 and an unutilized balance of US$ 0.05
million equivalent was cancelled. Loan 2133-YU closed on December 31, 1988,
one year behind schedule; the final disbursement occurred on July 14, 1989 and
an unutilized balance of USS 0.47 million equivalent was cancelled.
The Seventh Credit was financed by Loans 2339-YU and 2340-YU in the
amounts of USS 45 and US$ 25 million equivalent respectively. The Loans were
approved on July 26, 1983. Both loans closed on December 31, 1989, one year
behind schedule; the final disbursement for Loan 2339-YU occurred on March 16,
1990, and an unutilized balance of USS 3.08 million equivalent was cancelled.
The final disbursement for Loan 2340-YU occurred on October 6, 1989 and an
unutilized balance of US$ 3.17 million equivalent was cancelled.
This PCR was prepared by the Industry and Finance Operations
Division (EM4IF) of the Europe Department, Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). On June 24,
1991, the Bank sent the Borrowers Parts I and III with the request to prepare
Part II by July 31, 1991; responses were received from PBS and SBS and are
included under Part II.
The PCR is based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports; the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; supervision reports, correspon-
dence between the Bank and the Borrowers, and various internal Bank memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH. SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(Loans 1909/1910/1911/19'2-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
bi ectives
1.       All three Credits covered, between them, the same four Borrowers in
the Less Developed Republics and Autonomous Provinces (LDRs) of Bosnia i
Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo. The Fifth Credit, approved in
October 1980, consisted of four loans totalling US$ 100 million equivalent, of
which US$ 50 million equivalent to Kosovska Banka Pristina Udruzena Banka
(RBP), USS 30 million equivalent to Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udruzena Banka
(PBS), US$ 20 million equivalent to Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka
(IBT', and US$ 10 million equivalent to Stopanska Banka Skopje Udruzena Banka
(SBS). The Sixth Credit, approved in April 1982, consisted of two loans of
US$ 33 million equivalent each to PBS and SBS. The Seventh Credit, approved
in July 1983, consisted of two loans in the amounts of US$ 45 million
equivalent and US$ 25 million equivalent to RBP and IBT. The main objectives
of the three Projects were to provide foreign exchange to the four LDRs to
finance industrial enterprises to undertake labor-intensive, export-oriented,
and energy conservation/conversion projects; to encourage cofinancing and
joint ventures between the More Developed Republics and Autonomous Provinces
(MDRs), namely. Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and Vojvodina, and the LDRs; and
provide for institutional strengthening of the banks, including their
abilities to promote labor-intensive, export-oriented, and energy-efficient
industries. Within this, the Fifth Credit focussed primarily on labor-
intensive industries; the Sixth on export-oriented industries, and energy
conservation/conversion; and the Seventh on labor-intensive and export-
oriented industries. All three Credits encouraged cofinancing and joint
ventures between MDRs and LDRs. In addition, all three Credits included
programs of studies to be undertaken by the Borrowers to identify viable
programs in the three main areas of support (paras. 1.05 - 1.15).
Implementation and Results
2.        Use of loan funds proceeded at a slower pace than expected under all
three Credits. Effectiveness delays ranged up to three months, resulting
mainly from the internal ratification procedures in zhe Federal and
Republican/Autonomous Provincial Assemblies. Bank loan commitment was also
slowe- than expected, to a different extent with the different Borrowers, as a
result of the uncertainties caused on the part of potential investors by the
unstable macroeconomic situation in the countr7.  Closing dates were extended
under all three Credits, the maximum being for two years, through extensions
of a year ac a time, in the case of KBP and IBT, under the Fifth Credit (para.
1.21).
3.        The three Credits financed a total of 180 subprojects,
95 under the Fifth, 52 under the Sixth, and 33 under the Seventh. The main



- iv -
industrial branches covered were textiles and garments (31%), light
engineering (27%), furniture and wood products (18%), footwear and leather
products (9%), and others (15%). As the macroeconomic situation worsened over
the 1980's, there were substantial delays in subproject completion, most
marked in the case of the Seventh Credit, where delays of two years or more
were common. The minimum stipulated targets for earmarking of specified
percentages of the Bank loan proceeds for labor-intensive and joint-venture
subprojects were more than met under each Credit.  Cofinancing was much less
than anticipated due to the difficult macroeconomic situation.  Out of
subprojects that had been in production for at least one year, in the case of
the Sixth Credit, about 60% appeared to be .neeting their stipulated export
targets at loan closing. The situation under the Seventh Credit was more
difficult to assess since most subprojects had not reached their steady state
production and export levels by lcan closing.  With the continued
deterioration in the overall macroeconomic situation, which impacted
relatively more on the LDRs, several of the Borrowers' client enterprises,
including some subborrowers under the three Credits, were facing financial
diffit-ilties, and even bankruptcy proceedings in a few cases, at loan closing.
The Borrowers were negotiating with the concerned Republican Governments to
obtain relief from their obligations in such cases (paras. 1.25 - 1.28).
4.        After a slow start, the technical assistance commitments under:aken
by the Borrowers in respect of institutional strengthening under the Projects
were largely met, except for improvements in the management information
systems (MIS) components partly due to the existence of obsolete computer
systems. Progress in carrying out the agreed programs of studies for
identification and development of priority activities by the Borrowers, was
mixed. While the agreed studies were largely carried out under the Fifth
Credit, only one of the two Borrowers complied under the Sixth Credit, and
both Borrowers were unable to do so under the Seventh Credit. With the
exception of KBP, the Borrowers complied with the submission of audit reports
up to loan closing, although with substantial delays in some cases, due in
part to shortages of SDK (the Social Accountancy Service) staff. Reporting of
subproject progress, and of the Borrowers' periodic operational and financial
performance, remained irregular, incomplete and of uncertain quality,
reflecting, in part, the Borrowers' weak position in respect of obtaining
timely and adequate information from their subborrowers who were also their
founders (paras. 1.21 - 1.24 and 1.30).
Findings and Lessons Learned
S.        The three Projects were successful, to some extent, in meeting their
objectives of providing foreign exchange resources to meet priority objectives
in the LDRs at a difficult time in the Yugoslav economy. Despite delays
caused by difficulties arising from the deteriorating macroeconomic situation,
the subprojects were completed and, in cases where they had reached steady
state production, the majority appeared to be meeting stipulated targets at
loan closing (paras. 1.25 - 1.26, and 1.30). However, as the overall economy
continued to deteriorate, in common with most other Yugoslav enterprises, the
subborrowers as well were affected by the serious financial problems facing
Yugoslav enterprises as a result of the rapidly increasing losses in the
enterprise and banking sectors (paras. 1.27 - 1.28).
6.        The Projects had limited success in the overall institutional
strengthening of the Borrowers. Project design and implementation were



- V -
significantly constrained by Yugoslavia's strong commitment, at the time, to
the principle of workers' self-management, which advarsely affected the
ownership and governance of banks and enterprises. In the prevailing climate,
the Bank was unable to secure any substantial improvements in these critical
areas. Furthermore, kev areas impacting critically on the Borrowers'
financial performance such as interest rates and strong prudential supervision
by the central bankinc .suthcrities that extended to the banking system as a
whole could not be dealt with adequately under the Credits and had to be
pursued under broade: adjustment-type operations.  The Projects' institutional
strengthening impac't was, therefore, realized mainly in certain areas like the
Borrowers' project appraisal and supervision capabilities, and to a much
lesser extent in other vital areas impacting on the Borrowers' financial
viability and performance such as credit policies, adequate provisioning,
limitation on dividend distribution, and recapitalization of the banks by
their founders. The effects of institutional strengthening were also realized
mainly in the Borrowers and their appraisal/supervision of Bank-financed
subprojects, rather than extending system-wide in respect of the Borrowers'
member banks or their other lending operations. Consequently, in the absence
of strong prudential supervision, the financial situation of the Borrowers
(and m-st Yugoslav banks) progressively worsened.  The Government in now
addressing the problems of the '.ugoslav financial sector, including the
banking system, through a comprehensive restructuring program which forms part
of an overall IMF- and Bank-supported economic reform program (paras. 1.20,
1.30 and 1.32).
7.        The single most important lesson emerging from the three Projects is
that a sound macroeconomic framework is essential for the success of such
projects, and, in this regard, the vital importance of ensuring that
mechanisms are in place to ensure the financial discipline of enterprises and
banks which constitute the most important segments of the economy in terms of
their impact on sustaining macroeconomic stability. In this respect, since
Yugoslavia was firmly committed, at the time, to its economic system based on
workers' self-management, the Bank was unable to have any significant impact
on the critical issues of enterprise and bank ownership and governance, a
situation which is now being addressed under the Government's ongoing economic
reform program. Other important lessons from the Projects include the need to
ensure that adequate monitorable minimum financial performance standards are
explicitly covenanted in the loan agreements to reinforce the position of the
financial intermediaries vis-a-vis outside influences, be they political, or
as in this case, clients. Furthermore, while macro-level adjustment
operations substantially increase the Bank's leverage in getting the
Borrowers' acceptance for major conditionalities, given the short-duration,
quick-disbursing nature of such operations, adequate supporting
conditionalities need to be built into the investment operatione themselves to
ensure sustainability of the improvements. Finally, strong prudential
supervision through the Central Bank or other appropriate means should be
ensured, particularly when there is reason to suspect that the financial
intermediaries may be more than usually vulnerable to outside influences
(para. 1.35).
Prolect Sustainabi,litv
S.        Although the subprojects under the Projects were completed, the
protracted and serious macroeconomic deterioration In the overall economy
resulted in massive enterprise sector losses thdt directly or indirectly
affected the majority of Yugoslav enterprises, including the subborrowers.



- vi -
Concurrently, mounting arrears from the enterprises, together with the
increasing probability of uncollectability, seriously undermined the financial
situation of the Yugoslav banks, including the Borrowers. Project benefits
were not sustained thus far; future prospects depend upor. the success of the
Federal Government's bank and enterprise restructuring programs, currently
under way (para. 1.3i').



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRTAL CREDIT PROJECTS
(Loano 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
PART I. P)'.JECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name:     Fifth Industrial Credit
Loan Nos.:    1909-YU, 1910-YU, 1911-YU and 1912-YU
Borrowers:    Kosovska Banka Pristina Udruzena Banka (KBP)
Privredna Banka Sara,evo Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka (IBT)
Stopanska Banka Skopje Udruzena Banka (SBS)
Name:     Sixth Industrial Credit
Loan Nos.:    2132-YU and 2133-YU
Borrowers:    Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Stopanska Banka Skopje Udruzena Banka (SBS)
Name:     Seventh Industrial Credit
Loan Nos.:    2339-YU and 2340-YU
Borrowers:    Kosovska Banka Pristina Udruzena Banka (KBP)
Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka (IBT)
RVP Unit: Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country:      Yugoslavia
Sectors:      Industry and Finance
B. Backaround
1.01    Despite rapid economic growth at impressive average annual rates of
between 6 to 7% In real terms over the two decades preceding the Fifth
Industrial Credit, interregional income disparities increased between the four
more developed republics and autonomous provinces (MDRs), Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina, and the four less developed republics and autonomous
provinces (LDRs), Bosnia i Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Kosovo. The
growing disparities were ascribed to the lower productivity of investment in



-2-
the LDRs as a combired result of the higher capital intcisity of investmernt (a
consequence of the greater prevalence of basic industries in the LDRe
reflecting their natural resource endowments) and the higher net population
arowth.  Unemployment rates in the LDRs vere substantially higher than the
national average, more than twice so in the case of Kosovo, the least
developed of the LDRs.   The 1976-80 National Economic Plan, therefore, placed
particular emphasis upon diversifying the industrial structure of the LnRs by
encouraging investment in medium- and small-scale processing industries;
promoting labor-intensive projects; increasing resource transfers from the
MDRs to the LDRs; and encouraging MDR enterprises to undertake direct
investments in the LDRs through joint ventures. AB the economic growth of the
1960's and 1970's was based la-gely on pclicies of import-substitution,
serious external adjustment problems had begun to emerge by the early 1980's.
The emphasis on import substi.ution resulted in a bias against exports and
distortions in the industrial structure. As a result of sluggish growth of
induscrial exports, rapidly rising costs of imported energy due to the sharp
rises in oil prices, and deteriorating terms of trade during the same period,
Yugoslavia's trade deficit had substantially widened. The 1981-85 National
Economic Plan, therefore, introduced a new emphasis ol. encouragement of
export-orientation although it continued, broadly, the earlier strategy of
import substitution. The Plan also continued the emphasis given under earlier
plans to accelerating the growth of the LDRr.
1.02    In support of the Feeeral Government's emphasis on assuring the
accelerated development of the LDRs, the basic thrust of the Bank's activities
had increasingly moved towards the development of the LDRe.   Over two-thirds
of Bank lending in the five-year period preceding the Fifth Credit had been to
the LDRs through operations for transportation, power, agricultural
development, and industrial credit. Future Bank lending was expected to
continue this emphasis on support to the LDRs with special attention being
given to the needs of Kosovo as the least developed of the LDRs. The Fifth,
Sixth and Seventh Industrial Credits, the subject of this PCR, followed upon
four earlier industrial credits that, betweer. them, covered the same borrowers
as those under these three Credits. Two subsequent credit lines reflected a
shift in the Bank's lending policy to include support for priority activities
of national interest in the MDRe as well. Loan 2790-YU, approved in March
1987, was made to the associated bank in Slovenia in support of energy
conservation and fuel substitution projects, and Loans 2980-0, 2980-1 and
2980-2, approved in June 1988, were made to the associated banks in Serbia and
Slovenia for support of export-oriented industries.
1.03    Important organizational changes occurred in the structure of the
Yugoslav banking system in the late 1970's which were to be one of the
fundamental causes of the severe problems that later developed in the Yugoslav
financial sector, and that fueled and perpetuated the macroeconomic
instability already prevailing since the early 1980's. A summary of the
evolution of the deteriorating macroeconomic situation and the Federal
Government'e policy reforms since the 1980's is given in Annex__1.  The
organizational changes that occurred in the Yugoslav banking system were
introduced through a new Banking Law, passed in 1978, which introduced a
three-tier banking system (Annex 2) with the objective of making the banks
more responsive to the needs of the reorganized economic system, but which
resulbed in bringing the banks further under the influence of their founders,
the enterprises, who were simultaneously their principal cliente, the more so



- 3 -
since ¶.we changes were not accompanied by adequate strengthening of the
prudential supervisory role of the National Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY).
J.04    AO detailed in Annex 1, the implementation period of the three
Projo.eto, cpunniiig the years 1980 to 1989, was marked by an envircnment of
increasing macroeconomic instability with rising balance of payments and
inflationary pressures. The Federal Government's stabilization and policy
refcnki efforts in the early to mid 1980's were supported by TMF stand-by
agreements, a World Bank Structural Adjustment Lean (SAL I) in FY83. and debt
rescheduling agreements with governments and commercial banks. Difficulties
in maintaininig the intensity of the reform programs in the face of mounting
pclitical and social pressures, as well as a failure to address adequately
certain fundamental underlying structural and institutional issues pertaining
to the ownership and governance of enterprises and to their relationship with
the banks, led to a resurgence of inflation culminating in hyperinflationary
rates of over 2,000Z in 1989, rapidly mounting enterprise sector losses which
reached 15% of Gross Social Product ((SP) in 1989, and massive arrears to the
banks which threatened to lead to their bankruptcy. The Federal Government is
now embarked on a major and far-reaching reform program (outlined in Annex 1),
supported by an IMF stand-by agreement, a Second Structural Adjustment Loan
(SAL II) in FY90, and a potential Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL) that
is under development. Banking and enterprise restructuring programs,
supported by the necessary legal and institutional framework, are a vital part
of the overall reform program. These are resulting in major changes in the
organizat -nal structure of Yugoslav banks, including the four Borrowers, and
in their client enterprises, including the subborrowers under the three
Credits and subsequent industrial credit lines.
C. Project Objectives and Description
1.05    The main objectives of the three Projects were to provide foreign
exchange to the four LDRs to finance industrial enterprises to undertake
labor-intensive, export-oriented, and energy conservation/conversion projects;
to encourage cofinancing and joint ventures between the MDRs and LDRs; and
provide for institutional strengthening of the banks, including their
abilities to promote labor-intensive, export-oriented, and energy-efficient
industries. Within this, the Fifth Credit focussed primarily on labor-
intensive industries; the Sixth on export-oriented industries, and energy
conservation/conversion; and the Seventn on labor-intensive and export-
oriented industries. All three Credits encouraged cofinancing and joint
ventures between MDRs and LDRS. In addition, all three Credits included
programs of studies to be undertaken by the Borrowers to identify viKile
programs in one or more of the three main areas of support.
1.06    Under the Fifth Credit, the total amount of the Bank loan was US$ 110
million equivalent, of which US$ 50 million equivalent was to KBP, US$ 30
million equivalent to PBS, US$ 20 million equivalent to IBT, and US$ 10
million to SBS. The Sixth Credit included two loans, in amounts of US$ 33
million equivalent each to PBS and SBS respectively. The Seventh Credit was
composed of two loans in the amounts of US$ 45 million equivalent and US$ 25
million equivalent to KBP and IBT respectively. The proceeds of all the loans
were to be applied primarily to finance the foreign exchange costs of fixed
assets and permanent working capital of the eligible subprojects except for
components of US$ 300,000 under the Sixth Credit to finance the roreign



- 4 -
exchange costs of studies to prepare programs of energy conservation/
conversion, and US$ 670,000 under the Seventh Credit to finance the costs of
studies to prepare programs of support for labor-intensive and export-oriented
industries, and for institutional strengthaening of the two Borrowers, KBP and
IBT.
1.07    The subprojects were required to meet miniimum ERRs and FRRs; in the
case of the Fifth Credit, a minimum of 12% for both; and in the case of the
Sixth and Seventh Credits, a mirnimum ERR of 12% and a minimum FRR at least
equal to the Borrowers' interest rates on loans made to the subborrowers from
the Borrowers' own funds.
1.08    Labor-intensive industries were to be the main beneficiaries under the
Fifth and Seventh Credits. To be eligible for support, labor-intensive
subprojects were required to have a total capital cost per job not exceeding
US$ 31,000 (in 1978 prices) under the Fifth Credit which was subsequently
reduced to US$ 25,000 (in 1982 prices) in the case of the Seventh Credit, the
new limit being established on the basis of an analysis of actual Costs in
selected sectors.
1.09    Export-oriented subprojects were to be the main beneficiaries under
the Sixth Credit and' were also eligible for support under the Seventh Credit.
Both Credits required the beneficiaries to export significant portions
(figures for the Seventh Credit in parentheses) of their incremental
production from the subprojects, at least 50% (30%) in the case of new
subprojects, and at least 60% (40%) in the case of expansion, balancing and
modernization subprojects. Subprojects whose outputs were clearly
identifiable, essential inputs into final exports of other enterprises that
could meet the above criteria were also to be eligible for subloans under the
project. In addition, all subprojects were to be required to recover their
foreign capital cost through their net foreign exchange earnings within a
period of four and a half (six and a half) years from completion of
subproject. The appraisal missions' assessments were that the Borrowers had
already identified, on the basis of work undertaken under the preceding
credits, strong pipelines of candidate subprojects.
1.10    While the main focus of the S_xth Credit was on export-oriented
industries, energy conservation/conversion subprojects were also to be
eligible for financing under the Bank Loans. However, this program was to be
of a "pilot nature" given the enterprises' lack of experience with such
projects at the time. It was to be preceded by a program of studies and
technical assistance aimed at identifying energy conservation/conversion
projects for financing under the subject Sixth, or subsequent credits.
Eligibility criteria for such subprojects were to be: (i) for straight energy
conservation/conversion subprojects, a maximum payback period of 3.5 years if
the subproject cost was less than US$ 300,000 and a satisfactory FRR in case
of larger subprojects; and (ii) for subprojects combining modernization and
expansion as well, the normal minimum FRR and ERR applicable to other
suiuprojects (para. 1.07).
1.11    To encourage joint ventures, the Fifth and Sixth credits permitted
longer grace periods as in the case of cofinancing. The Seventh Credit
reinforced this by requiring that at least one third of the proposed Bank
loans would be earmarked for joint venture subprojects that met the labor-



- 5 --
intensive or export-oriented criteria (paras 3.04 and 3.05). Joint venture
subprojects were defined as those which involved investment by one or more
enterprises from the other RAPs of at least 20% of the total subproject cost
and which provided for a technical and management assistance agreement between
the investing enterprises.
1.12    All three Credits included components for preparation of studies by
the Borrowers to identify priority activities. The Fifth Credit provided for
a program to be prepared by the Borrowers to identify industries with export
potential. The Sixth Credit required the two Borrowers, PBS and SBS, to
prepare studies to identify programs for energy conservation and fuel
substitution.   Assessing that Kosovo and Montenegro needed organized
promotional work to explore potential lines of production for export and
labor-intensive industrial activities, the Seventh Credit included a component
to finance the foreign exchange costs of a program of studies in support of
these activities. KBP was to undertake the preparation of studies for both
export-oriented and labor-intensive industries whereas IBT, which had already
prepared an acceptable study on labor-intensive industries, was to carry out
one for export-oriented industries only.
1.13    All three Credits emphasized institutional strengthening, in the case
of the Fifth and Sixth Credits as part of the project preparation work (para.
1.18). The Seventh Credit included a component for substantial technical
assistance to both Borrowers, KBP and IST, in support of institutional
strengthening. KBP's program of technical assistance was to include the
services of resident advisors for development banking and World Bank
cooperation, strengthening of middle management, internal audit, project
appraisal, project supervision, and training activities. IBT's program of
technical assistance was to include the services of consultants to recommend
institutional improvements covering all the above areas.
1.14    Interest rates for subprojects assisted under the Project were to be
as follows: (i) on BanK funds, the Fifth Credit required that the onlending
rates reflect at least the cost of alternative foreign exchange resources,
estimated at the time as 11%, while under the Sixth and Seventh Credits, the
onlending rates were to be based on the Bank's variable interest rate plus a
minimum spread of at least 1.25%; in all three cases, the subborrowers were to
carry the foreign exchange risk; (ii) on domestic funds provided from the
Borrowers' own resources, the Fifth Credit required a floor rate of at least
10% raised successively to 15% and 18% under the Sixth and Seventh Credits, in
all three cases with a provision for annual review; and (iii) on the portion
of the domestic funds provided from specially earmarked funds (including
transfers from the MDRs to LDRs) obtained by the Borrowers, no floor rates on
the grounds that both mobilization and allocation of these funds were largely
interest inelastic. In the case of the Seventh Credit, the interest rates on
the Bank subloans as well as those on the Borrowers' local currency loans to
the assisted subprojects that were made from the Borrowers' own resources were
to be increased gradually over a period of three years, beginning January 1,
1984 to make them positive in real terms, as agreed under SAL I.
1.15    Other loan features were sased on the experience under the earlier
credits, adjusted for the realigninent of the US Dollar's exchange rate with
principal supplier country currencies, and the need to encourage further the
inclusion of desirable features in the subprojects, namely, labor-intensity,



..6 --
joint ventures and cofinancing. Maximum subloan size was nurcennively
increased to US$ 4 million for labor intensive subprojects and US$ 5 million
for export-oriented subprojects, except for the Seventh Credit, where taking
into account the institutional weaknesses of the two Borrowers, KBP and 1BT,
the limits were retained at US$ 3 million and UsS 4 million respectively.  The
free limit was increased to US$ 2.0 million (US$ 1.5 million under the Seventh
Credit) with an aggregate free limit of 60% of each loan amount. This was
expected to result in the Bank reviewing in detail the first few subprojects
prepared by the four banks, and overall, at least about 40% of the subprojects
in all three Projects. ICB was required for contracts over USS 2 million,
with the four Borrowers being responsible for ICB contracts of USS 2 to S
million, subject to the Bank's reviewing the bid evaluation report, the award,
and the final contract prior to the first withdrawal. Contracts of over USS 5
million were subject to the Bank's full prior-review. Contracts below US$ 2
million were to be covered by prevailing Yugoslav procurement regulations and
practices which were deemed acceptable. Administrative functions relating to
the Project were to be carried out by a Project Unit at each bank.
D. Proiect Design and Organization
1.16    The Fifth Credit was essentially a sequel to, and had broadly the same
objectives as, the four earlier credits which, between them, covered the same
borrowers as under the subject Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Credits. The Project
retained the same features introduced in the earlier credit lines for the
encouragement of labor-intensive subprojects and subprojects with cofinancing
through earmarking of funds (labor-intensive subprojects only), concessionary
graze pertods, and relaxation of subloan and total project cost limits. An
additional feature was the encouragement of joint ventures between MDRs and
LDRs through similar incentives. The Sixth Credit represented a new
orientation that aimed at responding more effectively to the different
conditions and prospects of each of the four LDRs, while addressing more
specifically the national priorities for industrial development. Thus, within
the overall context of the national priorities for export promotion, energy
conservation/conversion, and for reduction of interregional disparities
between MDRs and LDRs, a decision was made to give relatively higher priority
to the first two objectives in the two LDRs of Bosnia i Herzegovina and
Macedonia which were judged to be at a more advanced s'.age of industrial
development, and to continue to focus relatively more on promotion of labor-
intensive industries in the case of Montenegro and Kosovo, given their higher
rates of unemployment at the time. Taking into account the differing needs of
the two sets of LERs, it was decided to cover them through two separate
operations. The Seventh Credit continued this new orientation. In view of the
expected benefits from joint ventures between MDR and LDR partners (para.
1.11), the Seventh Credit included stronger features than under the earlier
credits for the encouragement of joint ventures, e.g., by earmarking one third
of the Bank loans for subprojects involving joint ventures.
1.17    Main issues identified at appraisal were the need to (i) increase
interest rates to positive levels in real terms; and (ii) strengthen further
the institutional capabilities of the Borrowers. The level and structure of
interest rates had already been the subject of a long-standing dialogue
between the Bank and the Yugoslav authorities. Interest rates had
traditionally been low, and were even often negative, given the rising
inflation at the time. The Yugoslav authorities had long taken the view that,



- 7 -
in the Yugoslav context of econiomic planning under sclf-managemont, interent
ratesl did not have a significant role in allocative efficiency.  Howeve'r, with
rising inflation, the authorities had undertaken (under the Second
Agricultural Credit-Loan 1477-YU) the preparation of a study on the role of
interest rateo in the Yugoslav economy.  Pending the outcome of the Wttcly, tlhe
Bank accepted, for the Fifth Credit, a floor level of 10% as the maxilrmum that
was realioticallv possible at the time, but with a provision for annua) review
and continuation of the dialogue. The study was completed in mid 1980. It
maintained that, in the Yugoslav context, interest rates could become a
significant factor only in resource allocation for non-priority investments.
Nevertheless, the Yugoslav authorities confirmed that the medium-term
objective was to introduce steadily a structure of positive real interest
rates. Although existing interest rates were substantially negative at the
time in the context of the prevailing high inflation, the Sixth Credit
accepted a floor rate of 15% on the expectation that, as a result of the
Government's ongoing stabilization efforts, inflation would be reduced to 13%
over the next year, thereby resulting in positive real retes. At the time of
the Seventh Credit, agreement had already been reached under SAL I that
interest rates would be increased gradually over a period of three years
starting June 1, 1984 to levels positive in real terms. The Bank accepted a
level of 18% for the Seventh credit, but with a provision for annual review
and the agreement that the Borrowers would increase their lending rates in
line with the agreement under SAL I. Onlending rates on the Bank subloans
were to include a spread of at least 1.25% over the variable Bank rate,
assessed as adequate at the time taking into account the fact that the
subborrowers were to assume the foreign exchange r.sks.
1.18    Institution building components had been included under the first four
industrial credits. The PCR for Credits II, III and IV (Report No. 6570 of
December 31, 1986) concluded that the institution building targets under these
earlier credits had been too ambitious, and perhaps, a more focussed approach
may have proved more effective. The Fifth Credit expected that the Borrowers'
project appraisal and supervision capabilities would be increased through
interaction between Bank and Borrower staff during project supervision. As
part of the Bank's preparatory work on the Sixth Credit, substantial
strengthening of the two Borrowers' (PBS and SBS) project appraisal and
supervision capabilities was provided through preparation of detailed project
appraisal and supervision guidelines, and strengthening the Borrowers' staff
dealing with these aspects. At the time of the Seventh Credit, the Bank's
experience with the earlier credits had revealed the persistence of serious
weaknesses in the institutional capabilities of the two Borrowers,
particularly KBP. As part of project preparation, the Bank carried out a
detailed analysis of the institutional requirements of KBP with the assistance
of a Bank-financed consultant. Based on the findings and recommendations of
this study, a program for institutional strengthening was agreed with KBP,
with some actions to be taken prior to loan negotiations, and the others
according to a program to be agreed at negotiations. IBT had already carried
out an institutlonal improvement study and, taking this into account, a
detailed program of technical assistance was included for IBT as well.
1.19    Under the Fifth and the Sixth Credits, the design of the financLal
covenants under the subject loans appears to have followed from the view then
taken in the Bank with regard to the role of Yugoslav banki, including the
four Borrowers, in the contextual situation and specific circumstances



- 8 -
prevailing at the time. The Barnk's assessment of the creditworthiness of the
Borrowers relied heavily on the assertion that the solvency of the Yugoslav
banks was a function of the solvency of their member basic banks, and in turn,
their founder members (each assuming unlimited liability for the bank's
debts), and, ultimately, the economy as a whole. Each bank was, therefore,
regarded as such an integral part of the economy as a whole that its failure
was conceivable only with the concurrent failure of the economy, the risk of
which was judged to be low. Based on the experience up to that point (strong
overall economic growth at annual average rates of 6 to 7% in real terms),
together with the assessment at the time that there had been no significant
loan losses in the past, that the arrears situation was manageable, and that
the project appraisal and supervision capabilities of the banks were generally
sound and would be strengthened further through intensive supervision by the
Bank, the loan design did not include under the financial covenants specific
requirements for the Borrowers to maintain, quantified, minimum acceptable
financial performance standards. While the Seventh Credit did not include any
minimum financial performance covenants itself, agreement was reached with the
Federal Government under the concurrent SAL I that the Yugoslav banks would
achieve by 1987 the minimum capital adequacy requirements (consisting of
maintaining certain reserve and joint liability funds at, or above, the
minimum specified percentages of the total portfolio) stipulated under the
Banking Law of 1982. Specific annual targets in this respect were defined for
the four Borrowers under the Bank's credit lines, including the two under the
Seventh Credit.
1.20    The scale and rapidity of the massive deterioration that took place in
the overall macroeconomic situation in Yugoslavia could not have been foreseen
at appraisal. Nevertheless, in retrospect, and with the benefit of hindsight,
it would now appear that, for all three Credits, the Project design and
organization could have been stronger in some respects: First, in view of the
increased vulnerability of the banks to the influence of their founder-
clients (the enterprises) as a result of the organizational changes following
from the Banking Law of 1978, the Bank's institution building efforts should
have included mechanisms, including strong financial covenants, to reinforce
the position of the banks vis-a-vis their founder-client enterprises in key
decision-making areas impacting on the banks' financial performance and
creditworthiness, e.g., credit policies, adequate provisioning, limitation on
dividend distribution, and minimum capital adequacy ratios. These would have
reinforced the Bank's emphasis on substantial technical assistance for the
development of the Borrowers' project appraisal and supervision capabilities.
Second, a component under the Project, SAL I or any other contemporary Bank
operation, to strengthen the prudential supervision role of the National Bank
of Yugoslavia (NBY) may have been particularly relevant in the situation of
the vulnerability of the banks to the enterprises. Third, the Bank's loan
agreements under this (and subsequent credit lines) were reached with the
associated banks in each of the concerned LDR banking systems since only the
associated banks were empowered to borrow in foreign exchange. The Bank's
institution building conditionalities were limited primarily to the associated
banks in the expectation that the improvements would eventually be transferred
to the basic banks in the system which dealt more directly with the clients,
the enterprises. The inclusion of specific monitorable programs of
institutional improvements covering the basic banks would have permitted the
Bank to follow the progress in the basic banks. Finallv, key areas of
operational significance continued to be outside the purview of individual



- 9 -
banks and were required to be dealt with at a collective level through the
Yugoslav Banks' Association (YBA), e.g., interest rates on deposits, and the
scope and format of operational and financial performance reporting.  Since
the Bank was assisting at the time only the four banks (the Borrowers under
the three Projects) in the LDRs, there was no incentive for the banks in the
MDRs to contribute to reaching agreement at the level of the YBA.  As the
Bank's policy shifted, in later operations, to include support to the MDR
banks as well as for activities of national priority, the Bank was able to
pursue these and other system-wide issues, such as the adoption of uniform
investment methodologies, through the YBA.
E. Project Implementation
1.21    The four loans under the Fifth Credit were signed in October 1980, the
two loans under the Sixth Credit in April 1982, and the two loans under the
Seventh Credit in October 1983. Delays in effectiveness ranged up to three
months, mainly arising from the internal ratification procedures in the
Federal and RAP Assemblies. Loan commitment was slower than expected under
all three Credits, to a different extent with the different Borrowers. The
implementation period (1980-89) of the Projects coincided with increasing
macroeconomic instability in the country, causing uncertainty on the part of
investors, which affected the different Borrowers to different extent.
Inflationary pressures together with the progressive devaluation of the dinar
increased local currency costs for the potential subborrowers who focussed on
completing ongoing investments and deferred new ones. Poten.ial cofinanciers
and joint venture partners from the MDRs held back as well pending clarity in
the situation. Local currency shortages were accentuated by the fact that all
four Borrowers, and KBP and IBT in particular, relied heavily on the timely
and adequate flow of Federal Funds transferred from the MDRs. Disbursements
were further affected by the prevalence of lengthy and cumbersome import
licensing procedures. Taking into account the pressing need for foreign
exchange financing in the LDRs at the time, the Bank extended the loan closing
dates under each of the Credits, the maximum being for two years (extensions
of one year at a time) in the case of KBP and IBT under the Fifth Credit.
1.22    With regard to the technical assistance component for institutional
strengthening, progress was slow to start with but improved as successive
supervision missions focussed in detail on the matter. In the case of the two
Borrowers the most in need of institutional strengthening, namely, KBP and
IBT, the supervision missions assessed that, by mid 1985, KBP had largely
carried out the agreed program of institutional strengthening including the
appointment of the development banking and World Bank relations advisers,
organizational changes in management directed to strengthen project appraisal
and supervision, internal audit, and training. Progress remained limited in
the case of the strengthening of the management information systems (MIS)
component, ascribed to the fact that KBP's existing computer system was
obsolete and in need of upgrading. The Bank suggested that KBP seek the
assistance of other Yugoslav banks that had developed their MIS but KBP was
unable to do so. The progress in carrying out the agreed program was much
slower in the case of IBT which was undergoing internal reorganizational
changes at the time. As in the case of KBP, the MIS component remained
largely unachieved at loan closing.
1.23    Progress in carrying out the agreed programs of studies under the



- 10 -
Creditei was mixed. Under the 'ifth Credit, PBS and SBS successfully carried
out the studies to identify sectors with export potential and the work done in
thin recard became the basis of identifying export-oriented subprojects under
the Sixth Credit. The studies carried out by KBP and IBT were judged to be in
need of further elaboration and were to have been completed under the Seventh
Credit. Experience under the Sixth Credit was similarly mixed reflecti:ig a
differeiice in the degree of commitment of the two Borrowers, PBS and SBS, to
achieving the agreed objectives. SBS, which agreed to absorb the costs of the
studies itself, successfully carried out its component of preparation of
identification studies and energy audits, and the experience was a good
example of successful collaboration between the Borrower, local and foreign
consultants, the participating enterprises, and the Bank. PBS, on the other
hand, took the view that it was unable to absorb the costs of the studies, and
that response from the candidate enterprises was weak. Despite persistent
efforts by Bank staff, PBS was unable to make any progress; the component was
dropped in 1986 and the funds reallocated to finance subprojects. Under the
Seventh Credit, both Borrowers were unable to carry-out the agreed programs
for labor-intensive and export-oriented industries. KBP contracted with a
Swiss consulting firm to carry out the studies, which were to be prepared in
three phases, preliminary, interim and final. While the consultants carried
out a part of the work covering the first two phases, disagreements arose
between KBP and the consultants as to the scope and quality of the work, KBP's
delays in payment, and the consultants' insistence on a substantial re-
negotiation of the contract. Despite the Bank's attempts to resolve the
matter, this remained unresolved at loan closing. IBT had contracted a local
institute to carry out its study. Again, due to the differences with the
institute over the scope and quality of the work, IBT terminated its contract.
Thereafter, citing changes in the Republican Government's policies and
priorities for development, IBT, from time to time, indicated its intention to
proceed with the study under revised terms of reference. However, as the
overall macroeconomic environment rapidly deteriorated, there was no progress
by loan closing in the case of IBT as well.
1.24    With regard to compliance with loan covenants, all Borrowers, except
KEP, submitted audit reports up to loan closing although with substantial
delays in some years due, in part, to shortages of audit staff in the Social
Accountancy Service (SDK). However, both subproject progress reporting, and
periodic reporting of the operational and financial performance of the
Borrowers, continued to be inadequate as to content and timeliness, to varying
extents with the different Borrowers. Although some improvements in reporting
were secured from time to time, e.g., in response to Bank conditions for
relaxation of original deadlines for loan commitment and loan closing dates,
they were not sustained thereafter. The persistent inadequacies in reporting
reflect, to some extent, the weak position and leverage of the Borrowers (the
associated banks) in obtaining timely and adequate information from their
member basic banks and the latter's founder-client enterprises.
F. Prolect Results
1.25    Ex-ante details of subprojects financed under the loans are presented
in nnexes 3 to S. Ex-post data were only partially available from the
Borrowers as most of the subprojects under the two older Credits were
completed some years ago, while completion of several subprojects under the
Seventh Credit was delayed to a year or so prior to the closing date, so that



- 11 -
the subprojects had not yet established steady production. Furthe-rmore, it is
unlikely that meaningful ex-post data can be compiled, given the major
organizational changes that are taking place in both the Borrowers and in
their subborrowers under the Federal Government's bank and enterprise
restructuring programs. The three Credits together financed a total of 180
subprojects; the main industrial branches covered were textiles and garments
(31%), light engineering (27%), furniture and wood products (18%), footwear
and other leather products (9%), and others (15%). Under the Fifth Credit,
the four loans together financed a total of 95 subprojects; under the Sixth
Credit, the two loans together financed 52 subprojects; and under the Seventh
Credit, the two loans financed 33 subprojects. Based on ex-ante data, on the
average, the subprojects financed under the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Credits
had a subloan size of USS 1.0 million, USS 1.25 million, and USS 1.95 million
respectively; a total cost of US$ 4.7 million, US$ 4.85 million, and US$ 5.0
million; incremental employment of 140, 200, and 220; and investment cost per
job of USS 32,500, US$ 24,200 million and USS 22,600. FRRs and ERRs ranged
between 13% and 50%, in most cases substantially higher than the minimum
stipulated level of 12%. The minimum targets of earmarking specified loan
percentages for labor-intensive and joint-ventures were more than met in each
credit. However, cofinancing was substantially less than expected.
1.26    Available data indicate that, for the Sixth Credit which closed in
December 1988, as of end-1987, the export performance of the subprojects was
mixed. Out of the subprojects that had been in production for at least a
year, about 60% appeared to be meeting the minimum specified export targets.
Reasons for the shortfalls in the other cases were not clear. Subproject
performance data for the Seventh Credit, as of the loan closing date of
December 1989, were more restricted since, with delays in completion of
subprojects, most subprojects had not reached their steady state incremental
production and export levels at loan closing in December 1989. All four
Borrowers were generally unable to impose penalties on the non-performing
suvb'borrowers, claiming difficulties in ascribing negligence or lack of effort
in such cases.
1.27    As the overall macroeconomic situation progressively worsened, the
effects were even more pronounced in the case of the LDRs, particularly Kosovo
and Montenegro, which depended heavily on the timely and adequate flow of
Federal Funds from the MDRs. To help alleviate the rapidly growing financial
and liquidity problems of the enterprises, the Federal Government and the RAP
Governments of Kosovo, Montenegro and Macedonia undertook Programs for
Economic-Financial Consolidation of the respective RAP economies. Under these
Programs, the Federal and RAP Governments provided financial assistance in the
form of assumption by the Government of portions of the enterprises, foreign
debt service obligations, relief from tax payments, and additional working
capital loans to those enterprises which had been screened by specially
constituted panels of local experts and found to have prospects of viability.
A substantial portion (over 60% in each case) of the three Borrowers'
portfolios, including several 3ubborrowers, fell under the Programs. The
su-ccess of the Programs was seriously limited, however, by the severe
inadequacy of available funds in relation to needs and substantial delays in
receiving transfers from the Federal Funds, as the overall macroeconomic
situation continued to deteriorate.



- 12 -
1.28    Consequently, by loan clc6ing, several of the Borrowers' clients were
facing bankruptcy proceedings, i.ncluding some subborrowers in Kosovo and
Montenegro. The Borrowers expected to reach agreements with their respective
RAP Governments under which the latter would take over the obligations of the
Borrowers in these cases.
1.29    In relation to their objectives (paragraph 1.05), the three Projects
may have met partially the objectives relating to the implementation of the
subprojects. Thus, the Projects contributed foreign exchange resources to thc
development of the LDRs, the more so since the actual level of foreign
cofinancing was likely much lower than expected due to the overall unfavorable
macroeconomic situation prevalent over most of the Projects implementation
period. They also likely met their objectives of increasing employment given
the pressures for additional employment in the LDRs at the time. With regard
to the anticipated benefits from exports (the Sixth Credit estimated that the
Bank loans would support about 30 subprojects with net foreign exchange
earnings of US$ 60 million per year at normal production), the actual
performance is difficult to assess, lacking the relevant information, the
dislocations caused by the severe deterioration in the overall macroeconomic
situation, and the major organizational changes that have occurred in Yugoslav
enterprises, including the subborrowers under the loans. Since the Projects
required higher standards of appraisal and supervision for the assisted
subprojects than for the Borrowers' other loans, they likely contributed, at
the margin, to raising the quality of the Borrowers' portfolios than would
have been the case in their absence. However, overall sustainability of the
Bank-financed and other subprojects was seriously affected by the rapid and
severe deterioration in the macroeconomic situation.
1.30    In relation to their objectives for institutional strengthening, the
Projects were successful in securing further improvements in the Borrowers'
organization and management, particularly in their project appraisal and
supervision capabilities, although the effects could not be consistently
sustained due to recurring periodic shortages of staff.  The Projects also
contributed to some extent to increasing the Borrowers' capabilities to
undertake system-wide financial analysis, including financial projections,
slthough the Borrowers were unable to provide adequately detailed information
to permit a full assessment of their situation. However, their impact on
other important areas was more limited, e.g., the Projects, in themselves, did
not provide adequate enforceable minimum financial performance covenants or
strengthening of the Borrowers' credit policies to safeguard the financial
viability of the Borrowers, although the Bank sought to remedy the situation
under SAL I. The Projects also had limited success in further strengthening
the Borrowers' capabilities for promotion of labor-intensive and export-
oriented industries, and of energy conservation/conversion, as three of the
four Borrowers failed to carry out the agreed studies, with the exception of
SBS.
G. Proiect Sustainability
1.31    Although the subprojects under the Projects were completed, the
protracted and serious macroeconomic deterioration in the overall economy
(described in Anr.ex 1) resulted in massive enterprise sector losses that
directly or indirectly affected the majority of Yugoslav enterprises,
including the subborrowers. Concurrently, mounting arrears from the



- 13 -
enterprises, together with the increasing probability of uncollectability,
seriously undermined the financial 3ituation of the Yugoslav banks, including
the Borrowers. Project benefits were not sustained thus far; future prospects
depend upon the success of the Federal Government's bank and enterprise
restructuring programs, currently under way.
B. Bank Performance
1.32    The Bank's performance in the design and implementation of the three
Projects has to be viewed in the context of the situation prevailing at the
time. First, support of the Government's priority objective of accelerating
the development of the LDRs implied that the Bank's industrial credits had
primarily tc be focussed on the banks in the LDRs which were the most
vulnerable in terms of their lower levels of organization snd management
skills, infrastructural support, and heavy dependence upon the timely and
adequate flow of funds transferred from the MDRs. Second, the organizational
changes in Yugoslav banks and enterprises that extended the influence of the
enterprises over the banks followed from a reassertion and reinforcement of
Yugoslavia's commitment, through the constitutional changes of 1974, to the
deeply entrenched principle of workers' self-management, which severely
limited possibilities of securing necessary changes in the ownership and
governance of the banks (and enterprises). Third, despite periodic cyclical
instability, the Yugoslav economy had shown strong overall economic growth at
impressive rates over the two decades preceding the Project. Fourth, the
experience with the first four industrial credit lines, involving the same
four Borrowers, was generally favorable with rapid commitment of funds and no
serious financial problems. Fifth, in the prevailing context of economic
planning under self-management, the Government and the Bank were not able to
concur on the role of interest rates in efficient allocation of resources.
Sixth, as also recognized in the PCR for the earlier credit lines, che Bank's
leverage to obtain stronger and deeper conditionalities, extending beyond the
immediate Borrowers and Bank-financed subprojects to the Borrowers' entire
system, was limited by the fact that Bank funds represented relatively only a
small part of the Borrowers' overall industrial lending programs.
Consequently, although the Bank recognized that the prevailing organization of
the banks exposed them to the influence of the enterprises, it accepted that
substantive organizational changes could not be secured at the time. However,
taking into account the fact that, under the framework prevailing at the time,
the founding Yugoslav enterprises had unlimited liability for the obligations
of their banks, the overall strong growth of the economy, and the favorable
experience under the earlier credit lines, the Bank's approach was to seek the
progressive institutional strengthening of the Borrowers through improvements
in their project appraisal and supervision capabilities, to be gradually
extended to the Borrowers' entire system of member banks and their overall
operations, while continuing to seek improvements in the level and structure
of interest rates through broader fora, and under broader instruments, such as
structural adjustment operations.
1.33    Against this background, the Bank was able to secure, progressively,
significant improvements in the Borrowers' project appraisal and sup. *ision
capabilities although limited largely to the associated banks who were the
Borrowers of the Bank loans. As the Bank's policy shifted to include support
of priority operations in the MDRs as well, the experience gained from these
earlier operations was reflected in the design and implementation of the



- 14 -
subsequent operations. The increasing involvement of the lugoslav Banks'
Association in the process enabled the Bank to pursue the introduction of
uniform investment evaluation methodologies which is being further
strengthened throuLgh ongoing operations such as SAL II. In respect of the
issue of isterest rates, the Bank sought to utilize the leveraqe of the
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I), signed in April 1983, to secure the
compliance of the Yugoslav banks (including the Borrowers) with The capital
adequacy requirements stipulated by the new Banking Law of 1982.  Agreement
was reached under SAL I that all Yugoslav banks, including the four Borrowers,
would reach the minimum stipolated capital adequacy ratios by 1987 - in the
case of the four Borrowers, according to agreed individual annual programs.
However, iacki..g the underlyirng financial covenants in the relevant legal
agreements with the Borrowers, the Bank was unable to obtain compliance with
these requirements following the completion of SAL I. The Bank is now
assisting (through SAL II and the potential FSAL) the Government in the major
reform and restructuring *f the financial sector (Annex 1) for which the
analytical basis was laid in the comprehensive study of the Yugoslav financial
sector undertaken by, the Bank with the help of the Yugoslav authorities in
1989 (Yugoslavia Financial Sector Restructuring: Policies and Priorities -
Report No. 7869-YU of November 30, 1989). The banking sector restructuring
program includes a process of relicensing of the banks; undertaking of audits
to international standards of all licensed or relicensed banks; establishment
of all Agency for Bank Rehabilitation and Deposit Insurance; and further
efforts by the authorities to improve banking legislation and regulation, and
bank supervision capabilities.
1.34    The Projecce' implementation periods spanned 1980 to 1989.  After
1982, supervision of '.ne Fifth Credit, and after 1983, that of the Sixth
Credit, was undertaken concurrently with that for the successor Seventh
Credit.  The scope and depth of supervision miEs-ons were progressively
increased particularly in respect of broadening of the earlier focus on
subproject appraisal and supervision to the Borrowers' financial situation and
underlying financial policies. Supervision missions also deepened the direct
technical assistance they provided to the Borrowers. Supervision was affected
to some extent, however, by the discontinuities in Bank staff, including that
arising from the Bank's reorganization in 1987, and the fact that supervision
resources had to be shared with other projects facing difficulties in
Yugoslavia. Supervision missions also continued to be constrained by the
Borrowers' inability to provide vitdl data, e.g., on rescheduling and
refinancing of loans, compour:u: after 1985 by the frequent changes in the
accounting regulations, and the continuing shortages of SDK staff which
affected preparation of consolidated financial statements. Lacking strong
financial covenants, and with the then prevailing dispersion of
responsibilities between the associated and basic banks in the Borrowers' bank
systems, the Bank could not press adequately for a serious analysis of the
Borrowers' portfolios which may have given an earlier indication of the severe
problems that emerged later.
1.35    The system-wide lessons learned in respect of the Yugoslav financial
sector have been set out in the Bank's report referred to above (para 1.33).
The single most important lesson emerging from the three Projects is that a
sound macroeconomic framework is essential for the success of such Projects,
and ir this regard, the vital importance of ensuring that mechanisms are in
place to ensure the financial discipline of enterprises and banks which



- 15 -
constitute the most important segments of the economy in terms of their impact
on sustaining macroeconomic stability. In teis respect, Yugoslavia was deeply
committed, at that time, to its economic system based on workers, self-
management, and the Banlk was unable to have any significant impact on the
critical issues of enterprise and bank ownership and governance, a situation
which is now being addressed under the Government's ongoing IMF- and Bank-
supported economic reform program. When judged by current Bank standards in
respect of financial sector operations, there are some other important lessons
from the Project: First, mechanisms need to be in place to sustain the pace
of necessary improvements in the overall macroeconomic framework. Second,
issues of ownership and governance of financial intermediaries should be given
special attention to ensure adequacy of safeguards to protect them from undue
outside influences, including of their clients. Third, adequate monitorable
minimum financial performance standards should explicitly be covenanted to
reinforce the position of the financial intermediaries vis-a-vis outside
influences, be they political, or as in this case, clients. Fourth, while
macro-level adjustment operations substantially increase the Bank's leverage
in getting the Borrowers' acceptance for major conditionalities, given the
short-duration, quick-disbursing nature of such operations, adequate
supporting conditionalities need to be built into the investment operations
themselves to ensure sustainability of the improvements. Fifth, strong
prudential supervision through the Central Bank or other appropriate means
should be ensured, particularly when there is reason to suspect that the
financial intermediaries may be more than usually vulnerable to outside
influences. Last, to improve the prospects of sustainability of institutional
strengthening, Project design should explicitly include features to extend the
coverage to the Borrowers' entire system, and not just limited to an enclave
of Bank-assisted subprojects.
I. Borrowers' Performance
1.36    Due to weaknesses in accounting regulations, practices and standards
prevalent at the time, the financial statements prepared by the Borrowers
generally tended to overstate performance. Particularly misleading were the
data on the arrears situation, the gravity of which could not be properly
assessed due to lack of the relevant information on rescheduling and
refinancing of the Borrowers' loans. Assessment of the adequacy of provisions
was also difficult lacking the relevant underlying information on the status
of the Borrowers' portfolio, particularly in regard to problem and non-
performing loans. The Borrowers claimed that the submission of such data
would violate the confidentiality of their relationship with their clients.
The Bank's inability to secure any significant reporting improvements in this
regard is a reflection of its limited leverage, given that Bank loans at the
time were only a small part of the Borrowers overall lending programs. Annex
A, based on estimates prepared by the Bank (in the context of preparation of
its report on the Yugoslav financial sector--referred to earlier in para.
1.33) illustrates for one year, 1987, the extent of the overstatement of
performance. If appropriate adjustments were made, some Borrowers would
appear to have incurred substantial losses rather than profits as shown in the
unadjusted statements. Under the Federal Government's ongoing program for
bank restructuring, comprehensive aldits of the banks have been undertaken
with the assistance of a qualified foreign audit firm. These indicate that
the extent of the losses is much higher than earlier estimated by the Bank and
that the net worth of the majority of Yugoslav banks, including the four
Borrowers, is likely to be negative.



- 16 -
1.37    The losses and consequent weak financial position of the Borrowers
stemmed largely from (i) foreign exchange losses arising from the Borrowers'
large foreign exchange exposure in the face of progressive dinar devaluation;
(ii) increasilLg enterprise sector arrears to the banks as the overall
macroeconomic situation worsened; (iii) inadequate provisioning to reflect the
real state of the portfolio, marked by increasing problem and non-performing
loans; and (iv) failure of the banks' founders to recapitalize the banks even
through there were minimum capital adequacy requirements under the prevalent
Banking Law.
1.38    In respect of operational aspects such as project appraisal and
supervision, the Borrowers were able to improve significantly the quality of
subproject appraisal and supervision for Bank-financed subprojects but these
improvements appear not to have extended system-wide either to the member
basic banks in the Borrowers' bank systems, or to their other loans.
Reporting, both in respect of Project progress as well as operational and
financial performance, remained irregular, incomplete and of uncertain
quality, reflecting to some extent the relatively weak position of the
Borrowers for requiring timely and adequate information from their
subborrowers.
1.39    Reconstitution and financial restructuring of all Yugoslav banks,
including the four Borrowers, is under way under the Federal Government's
comprehensive bank restructuring program (Annex 1). The Bank has been
assisting the Federal Government in this process through SAL II (FY90) and a
proposed Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, under discussion.
J. Project _elationship
1.40    The relations between the Bank and the Borrowers were generally
cordial. However, friction arose periodically, to a different extent with
different Borrowers, over the Bank's demands for adequate information to
monitor and assess the progress of the Projects, and the Borrowers'
operational and financial performance. The Borrowers felt, at various times,
that the Bank's approval procedures caused unnecessary delays and expense. At
least one of the Borrowers continued to question the Bank's policies of
charging commitment fees (0.75% at the time) arguing that the fees should (i)
be lower; (ii) start from loan effectiveness instead of loan signature; and
(iii) be tied to the rate of subloan commitment.
K. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.41    Except for the lack of specific, monitorable requirements for minimum
financial performance standards, the legal agreements and the Staff Appraisal
Report provided an adequate framework for the supervision of the Project.
1.42    Basic data for the preparation of this PCR were generally readily
available from the Project Files except for audit reports covering a certain
period (1981 - 1984), and Supervision Forms 590 in some cases. The main
deficiencies were in relation to subproject performance data. It is not clear
to what extent this is also the result of the dislocations following the
Bank's reorganization in 1987.



- 17 -
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW EROM THE BORROWERS' PERSPECTIVE'
A. Submission by PBS
2.01    Loans 1910-YU and 2132-YU were realized within the Fifth and the Sixth
Industrial Credits, through Privredna Banka Sarajevo DD Sarajevo, being the
legal successor of PBS Udruzena Banka Sarajevo.2
2.02    Loan 1910-YU in various currencies in the equivalent sum of USS 30
million was utilized in the equivalent sum of US$ 29,782,383.34. As of July
31, 1991, the loan was repaid in the amount of US$ 23,987,816.34. Therefore,
the outstanding dePt amounted to the equivalent of US$ 5,794,566.98.
2.03    The loan was used to co-finance 39 subprojects in Bosnia i
Herzegovina, distributed within the following industrial sectors:
(In '000 US$)
No. of                           % of
No.   Industrial Sector              Subprojects    Loan Amount    Participation
1.      Textile & Footwear Industry         17          8,758              29
2.      Wood Industry                        7           6,220              21
3.      Cellulose and Paper Industry         1           1,071               4
4.      Metal Industry                       8           7,707              26
S.      Chemical Industry                    3           1,208               4
6.      Civil Engineering Materials
Industry                          2           4,244              14
7.      Others                               1             574               2
Total             39          29,782              100
2.04    Out of the total number of 39 subprojects, the credits for 14
subprojects have been fully repaid in the equivalent of USS 8,384,111.34 until
July 1991. The final repayment under this loan falls due on May 1, 1994.
2.05    Loan No. 2132-YU in various currencies in the equivalent sum of US$ 33
million was utilized in the equivalent sum of US$ 32,935,588.33.  As of July
31, 1991 the loan was repaid in the equivalent sum of US$ 12,961,192.
'As prepared by the Borrowers PBS and SBS, with some minor editing,
including insertion of footnotes, by the Bank; the originals of the two
submissions are available on file with the EMENA Information Center.
2 The Borrower under Loans 1910-YU and 2132-YU was Privredna Banka
Udruzena Banka Sarajevo; its successor, Privredna Banka Sarajevo DD Sarajevo
came into existence in 1990, after the closing of both loans.



- 18
2.06    The loan was used to cofinance 29 subprojects within the following
industrial sectors:
(In '000 US$)
% of
No.     Industrial Sector            Subprojects    Loan Amount    Participation
1.      Textile & Footwear Industry         9            12,736             39
2.      Metal Industry                      8             9,512             29
3.      Wood Industry                      11             6,522             20
4.      Others                              1             4,165             12
Total             29            32,936            100
2.07    The final repayment under this loan falls due on November 15, 1997.
2.08    The important fact is that the funds under the Fifth and the Sixth
Industrial Credits were used to finance subprojects from the textile and
footwear industries (34%), metal industry (27%) and wood, cellulose and paper
industries (22%). Such a borrowing structure resulted out of the efforts
aimed at, when taking into regard the economic structure of the Republic,
ensuring implementation of the major tasks of the subprojects, i.e., supply of
foreign exchange required to finance companies in the less developed regions
of Yugoslavia; for the purposes of completion of labor-intensive and export-
oriented subprojects, and of encouraging cofinancing and joint ventures
between companies from the developed and the less developed regions of
Yugoslavia; and education of the banks in order to take an active part in
their completion.
2.09    Despite the fact that most subprojects were carried out, except for
the World Bank funds, through cofinancing and through Republic Funds and
Federal Development funds obtained at highly favorable conditions (Dinar Loans
for 15 years, with fixed interest rates of 5.5 percent to 12.5 percent), and
that the imports of equipment were exempted from the then prevailing limits,
the general evaluation was that the Project aims were not reached in full.
2.10    We point out that completion of the subprojects contributed to
increases in employment and in exports, particularly in the wood and metal
processing sectors.
2.11    However, the completion of these subprojects did not result in wider
integration with companies from the developed regions of the country on a
long-standing basis; therefore, rather modest results were achieved within
this segment. This was also substantially influenced by the institutional
issues with respect to ownership and management over joint companies.
2.12    It should also be taken into account that, in the meantime, no
improvements were made in order to reduce the difference in the level of
economic development of the Republic3 in relation to the country as a whole,
I Bosnia i Herzegovina



19
which was one of the main tasls set by the Fifth and the Sixth Industrial
Credits.
2.13    Financial results of the subprojects substantially deviated from those
originally planned as a result of the factors elaborated in the Report,4
therefore there is no nezd to repeat them here. However, we feel free to
point out that additional costs incurred due to inter-currency exchange rate
changes (Currency Pool System) represent an extremely big burden for the end
beneficiary and for the Borrower as well, thus diminishing the financial
benefits and making thf0 repayment of the relevant loans highly difficult.
2.14    In connection therewith, we would appreciate very much if the World
Bank could thoroughly consider this problem and, if possible, review the
Currency Pool System.
2.15    With respect to the complexity of the prevailing conditions and the
influence of the macro-environmental situation on the completion of the
project, we believe that mutual cooperation between our two banks has been
very successful.
B. Submission by SBS
2.16    The Fifth Credit was approved in October 1980 in the amount of US$ 110
million, of which a loan of US$ 10 million equivalent was made to SBS, and the
Sixth Credit was approved in April 1981, comprising two loans each of US$ 33
million equivalent to SBS and PBS.
2.17    The main objectives of these Projects were to provide foreign exchange
resources to the LDRs and to finance industrial enterprises, labor intensive,
export-oriented projects and energy conservation and energy tonversion
projects, to encourage co-financing and joint ventures between MDRS and LDRs,
and to provide institutional strengthening of banks, including their
promotional abilities, etc.
2.18    Within this framework, the Fifth Credit focused mainly on labor
intensive industries, and the Sixth Credit on export oriented subprojects as
well as preparation of energy conservation and energy conversion studies.
2.19    In addition, the Credit included study programs to be assumed by the
Borrowers so as to identify viable programs for the three main areas of
support.
2.20    Under the Fifth and Sixth Projects, SBS financed 34 subprojects, of
which 10 were under the Fifth Credit, i.e., one A project and 9 B projects,
and under the Sixth Credit were 24 subprojects including 5 A projects and 19 B
subprojects. Covered were mainly subprojects of industrial enterprises,
notably: textiles, metal, electrical, nonmetals, chemicals, and medical
plastics.
2.21    Although the macroeconomic situation in the country deteriorated from
the 1980's onwards, implementation was successful, and the subprojects had no
4 Parts I and III of the PCR.



- 20 
substantial delays, although in global terms, such period in the case of
reconstructions and modernizations means several months, while in the case of
new projects, delays reach up to one year.
2.22    The minimum anticipated objectives for earmarking part of the loans,
the Bank funds approved to the Borrowers for labor intensive projects as well
as joint ventures were fully achieved in the case of both loans to SBS when
viewed from the Borrower's aspect.
2.23    Under the Sixth Credit, the 24 subprojects achieved, on a contingent
basis, their export targets. We say on a contingent basis because all these
enterprises export to the convertible currency markets in a high percentage,
while other enterprises export to the convertible currency and other markets.
However, we cannot assess the results as fully successful, since the
enterprises have never supplied to the Borrower statements on subprojects'
exports to the convertible currency markets; on the occasion of supervision,
they reported data on total exports to convertible currency markets as well as
the total foreign exchange earnings of these enterprises.
2.24    Therefore, as per the data supplied, we estimate that the subprojects
under the Sixth Credit have relatively achieved their export targets.
2.25    The increasingly deteriorating macroeconomic situation had a
relatively larger impact on the LDRs. Part of the Borrower's customer
enterprises, as stated hereinafter, suffered a deterioration in their overall
operations and faced financial difficulties which also affected SBS
operations. However, SBS made efforts to rehabilitate, and to assist in the
economic recovery of most of these enterprises.
(a) Lessons
2.26      An important lesson to be learned from both Projects is that,
although the SBS evaluation and the Bank's confirmation that each of the
Projects had an economic rate of return, and financial rate of return applied
to both Loans, it turned out that, in the case of subprojects of the A type
where these calculations were prepared analytically, the bad macroeconomic
framework diluted their results, but showed at the same time that in such
circumstances it is crucial. 1--) stick to a more severe financial discipline of
the enterprises and the Borrower, which are very important segments of the
economy in terms of their influence on the maintenance of macroeconomic
stability. Changes have occurred in the Government's ongoing economic reform;
however, the program is facing difficulties in its implementation. The
analysis also showed in this part that it is necessary to stipulate during
loan negotiations a number of standards for minimum monitoring of financial
implementation.
2.27    Although, in terms of time, the subprojects were completed
successfully, during operations due to the macroeconomic impact of the overall
economy, the results have been diluted by reason of the difficulties faced by
the enterprises, which also worsened, directly or indirectly, the Borrower's
financial position.



- 21 -
2.28    The management of operations of the enterprises and the Borrower is
tied to the Federal Government's program of restructuring of the enterprises
and the banks, now under way, and their purpose is to ensure operations under
more normal economic conditions than those now prevailing in the Yugoslav
economy.
2.29    For the purpose of Loans 1912-YU and 2133-YU, in the continuing
cooperation between the Bank and the Borrower SBS during 18 years, in addition
to quantitative business relations, specific qualitative aspects arise as
well. Worth mentioning is, first of all, the financing of small and medium
projects, then the lowering of regional imbalances in a less developed
Republic, the promotion of institutional building, the mobilization of
additional foreign exchange resources, the financing of labor intensive
enterprises, etc.
2.30    In the PCR on the previous loans, the Bank had given an evaluation
that the financial objectives prior to the Fifth and Sixth Credits were
successful, which in our opinion is also true for the Fifth and Sixth Credits
from the Borrower's perspective on the performance of the Bank-supported
subprojects, with a remark that macroeconomic problems have diluted part of
these objectives.
2.31    If the objective of the Fifth Credit was to assist the Borrower to
finance production facilities in the industry sector and development of
Macedonian resources, the Borrower, in the implementation of the rights under
the Credit, is under obligation to protect the rights of the Bank, and SBS, to
abide by the obligations under the agreement and to implement the Project
objectives to finance small and medium industrial projects, and ensure that
these projects have an adequate economy.
2.32    The analysis showed that the Borrower SBS has fully observed the
agreements under the Fifth Credit by approving 10 subprojects under the Loan,
1 of A type and 9 of B type, all in small and medium industrial subprojects.
2.33    The analysis also showed that the A type project has been prepared in
accordance with the Bank's methodology, that the Bank has approved it, and
that the Project promised economic efficiency.
2.34    It is characteristic for these 10 subprojects of the Fifth Credit
that, in addition to the Bank's funds, they were also financed with the
Borrower's funds and the subborrowers' own funds, and that a large amount of
additional foreign exchange resources were committed in the amount of US$ 7.5
million equivalent.
2.35    The analysis also showed that most of the subprojects have utilized
funds earmarked for reconstruction and modernization of 7 existing facilities,
and only 3 are new subprojects.
2.36    This is also important for further analysis of some efficiency
indicators comprised in the entirety of the enterprises' performance, not of
results achieved by subprojects.



- 22 -
2.37    Although the Credit is divided into 10 subprojects, represented
therein are several industrial branches, and it is evident that the most
important is the textile industry with 4 subprojects, followed by the metal
and nonmetal industries with 2 subprojects each, and the electrical transport
industry with 1 subproject each, although of the A type.
2.38    In the case of the Sixth Credit, the analysis showed that each of the
Borrowers, SBS and PBS, has participated with a US$ 33 million loan, and the
bdsic objective of these subprojects was export orientation of small and
medium subprojects.
2.39    This objective set between the Bank and the Borrowers was complied
with, as all of the 24 subprojects, 5 of A type and 19 of B type, were export
oriented, and in most of them, the exports were direct.
2.40    In agreement with the Bank, SBS was to spend part of funds for the
preparation of feasibility studies dealing with energy conservation and energy
conversion. Also included was an appropriate component of technical
assistance which was accomplished by the firm "Fichtner" (West Germany)
specializing in conversion and conservation of energy. The Bank did not
include the Borrower SBS in the utilization of a loan for this purpose under
these studies. There remains to complete the explanation, on a favorable
occasion, of the manner in which SBS will obtain a loan for this purpose, as
SBS had prepared a large amount of preparatory work. In the global evaluation
of the Sixth Credit, the analysis showed that USS 107.23 million equivalent
has been mobilized, where the 5 A projects had a share of USS 56.24 million,
or over 52% of total funds, and the 19 B subprojects' share was 48% of total
funds. These subprojects were implemented in recognized enterprises of
Macedonia in cooperation with larger enterprise systems such as "Rade Koncar,"
Skopje, which utilized the loan for the purchase of welding equipment.
2.41    "Struzanka," Struga and "Prespateks" Resen are enterprises which, in
addition to employing modern technology and facing ready markets, have also
provided for training of staff and sale of textile products in convertible
currency markets worldwide.
2.42    "Silika," Gostivar is one of the leading organizations, together with
"Sileks," Kratovo, and their nonmetal products are also well known in the
convertible markets in Europe and around the world.
(b) Features of the Subprolects
2.43    The Fifth Credit, which was utilized for small and medium projects,
covers five industrial branches, notably: transportation means, textiles,
metals and nonmetals, and electrical products. Textile products are
predominant, but also important is the number and values of the projects in
the electrometals complex. Such a distribution of financing is also due to
the development of the specific economic structure of the Macedonian economy.
2.44    The analysis also showed that these enterprises in the branches
appeared to be among the more solid ones at the time of appraisal, but cannot
be immune from econc;aic shocks, and they also face specific problems.
2.45    In the case of the Sixth Credit, there exists a major quantitative
difference, as the funds were three times larger relative to the Fifth Credit.



-- 23 -
Unlike the subprojects in the Fifth Credit, where the number of A type
subprojectn was 1, in the Sixth Credit the number of such subprojects wao 5,
notably: 3 in the textile industry, including two very successful industrial
combinats, "Teteks" Tetovo and "Prespateks" Resen, their products being sold
in the convertible currency markets.
2.46    The third subproject "Struzanka' Struga was expanding at the time of
committing the funds of the Sixth Credit, and, following the Borrower's
appraisal, and in agreement with the Bank's experts, this enterprise was, by
exception, approved three subprojects A2, A5, and B19 under this Credit,
whereby the enterprise completed installation of its most up-to-date equipment
and technology from West Germany and became a large exporter to the
convertible currency markets.
2.47    The analysis showed that two studies were prepared under the Sixth
Credit: one for the Steelworks Skopje - for the energy conversion, lignite
technology (conversion of electric energy to lignite energy in the
technological process). The second study pertained to a group of feasibility
studies on subprojects for energy conservation and conversion which were
audited by the firm "Fichtner' of West Germany as economically useful.
2.48    Among the Sixth Credit subprojects, 10 pertained to the textile
industry, 2 each to the metal and electrical industries, and 1 each to the
nonmetals, transport and electrical industries. The analysis showed that all
of these projects are export-oriented enterprises, exporting also to the
convertible currency markets.
2.49    The Borrower under the Sixth Credit attempted to analyze total sales
and sales to the convertible currency markets for a 9-year period of all
subprojects.
2.50    This approach showed that the enterprises do not keep separate records
of exports for a particular subproject, but keep them for the enterprise as a
whole, and therefore, we are unable to fully assess the operating results of
the subprojects from this aspect.
2.51    The analysis showed that a number of enterprises are certainly export
oriented, predominantly to the convertible currency markets, notably:
"Prespateks" Resen, "Slleks" Kratovo, "Rade Koncar" Skopje, "Teteks" Tetovo,
"EMO" Ohrid, and "Struzanka" Struga.
(c) Regional Distribution
2.52    Both the Fifth and the Sixth Credits, together amounting to USS 43
million, mobilized in the Macedonian economy additional funds in the amount of
US$ 112 million equivalent, so that total lendings under these Credits to the
34 subprojects exceeded USS 155 million.
2.53    The analysis showed that, in the case of lending these funds, there
exist specific features from the aspect of regional distribution as seen in
the fact that this LDR (Macedonia) has less developed communes (LDCs). Thus,
5 projects under the Fifth Credit have been implemented in 5 LDCs, which is of
particular importance to the regional development, as we can say that these



- 24 -
are pronouncedly less developed areas, and these projects meant an initial
development of these parts of the Republic.
2.54    The Sixth Credit shows, from a regional aspect, that 10 of the 24
enterprises have been implemented in more developed communes (MDCs), and 14 in
LDCs. The subloan amounts show that 38.74% Credit funds have been utilized in
the MDCs and 61.26% in LDCs. Tne objective of such lending is to increase the
ability of export-oriented enterprises and a more even regional development of
the overall area of Macedonia.
2.55    This specific feature is most evident in the fact that most textile
enterprises are located in LDCs.
(d) Subsector Distribution
2.56    Under the Fifth and Sixth Credits, the 34 subprojects which were
approved were distributed by a number of industrial branches, in which the
textiles, electrical, metal, nonmetal, chemical, and medical plastics
industries were predominant.
Breakdown of Loans Committed by Industry Branch
US$
No.     %    million    _2
- Textiles              16    47.06   16.68      39.64
- Electrical & metal   10    29.41   14.92       35.08
- Nonmetals              5    14.70    7.15      16.81
- Chemical               2     5.80    2.52       5.93
- Medical plastics       1     2.94    1.08       2.54
34   100.00   42.53    100.00
2.53    It is evident that textiles have a 502 share in the number of
subprojects, followed by electrical and metal industries with shares of 29.41%
and 35.08%. This shows that the textiles, metals and electrical industries
accounted for 74.72%, or 3/4 of the total amount of the subloans made under
the two Projects.
(e)  Size of Subproiects
2.58    The Fifth Credit of US$ 10 million provided financing for 10
subprojects, and total funding of US$ 48,296,337 equivalent was committed; the
Sixth Credit of US$ 33 million, had a total c o  itment of more than US$ 107
million and financed 24 subprojects. Thus, the average value of an approved
subproject under the Fifth Credit was US$ 4.8 million, and all of them
complied with the criterion stipulated in the agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower of not exceeding US$ 15-20 million for small and medium projects.
It is interesting that in the case of the Sixth Credit with 24 subprojects of
which 5 were of A type, the average size of the subprojects is US$ 4.45
million, showing that the objectives of the Projects have been materialized.
In the case of the Fifth Credit, the A projects which were prepared by the
subborrowers in accordance with the methodology of che Bank, had a 10% share
in the project subloans, while in the case of the Sixth Credit, the A projects
had a 20.83% share, which is a positive qualitative change trend in the
application of the methodology from two aspects. First, investors adapt
themselves to marketing research, such research being made by specialists;



- 25 -
second, appraisal staff are trained to apply the Bank's methodology, whereby
the property of the enterprises, the property of the Bank, and that of the
Borrower is protected.
(f) Project Implementation Period
2.59    The average project completion period provided under both Credits as
from the date of approval by the Borrower is 1 - 2 years for reconstruction
projects, and 2.5 to over 3 years for new projects. Taking into account the
preparation period, procurement and delays, the actual implementation period
for more than 80% of the projects was between 2.5 and 3 years.
2.60    we assess this as an indication of the readiness of the investors, and
in global terms, as a reasonable period. But, at the same time, the analysis
showed that, should the investors have been more prepared, this period might
have been shorter by 6 - 9 months, which would have greatly improved the
achievements. There are edifying examples where some investors, well
organized, made this interval shorter by 1 year.
(g) Other Features
2.61    As provided with the project appraisal, all loans were long-term over
12 years, including a 2-year grace period. In the case of the Sixth Credit,
20 of the 24 subprojects (83%) were for reconstruction and modernization
investments, while only four subprojects (17%) were new. In the case of the
Fifth Credit, 30% were new and 70% were for reconstruction and modernization.
Ten subprojects under the Sixth Credit were located in urban areas, and 14 in
small towns in rural areas.
(h) Performance of Projects
2.62    In the case of both Credits, at the time of evaluation, preparation,
and verification by the Bank, the subprojects complied with the minimum
requirements provided for in the projects. In the case of the Fifth Credit,
there are not so far any indicators that any of those enterprises would
terminate their operations. In the case of the Sixth Credit, only 3 - 5
organizations have faced different degrees of economic problems, and the other
enterprises have shown a good performance. The Borrower seeks measures for
the recovery of those enterprises which face financial problems.
(i) Cost Overruns
2.63    In the case of the Fifth Credit, the average cost overrun reached 20%,
although in the case of most subprojects there were no overruns (as far as the
small projects are concerned). In the case of the Si.'th Credit, the average
overrun reached 30%, such overruns being by far lower in the case of the
smaller subprojects, and relatively higher in the case of the larger ones,
particularly those whose construction period was longer.
(j) Financial and Economic Performance
2.64    For both Credits, the minimum financial and economic rates of return
(FRR and ERR) on the occasion of subproject evaluation were positively
confirmed in the case of all subprojects, up to 23% and 25%, respectively.



- 26 -
2.65    It should also be taken into consideration that the achievements are
not a net result of the subprojects alone, but they also include part of the
operations of the concerned enterprises as a whole.  Therefore, we are not
quite sure that these achievements have been implemented in view of the
economic circumstances in the country.
(k) Characteristics of Exports and Foreign Exchange Earninqs
2.66    In view of the specificity of the approved subprojects where
reconstruction and modernization investments were predominant, as well as the
manner of keeping of the analytical records of the enterprises with regard to
the total amount of exports to the convertible currency markets, and not of
the subprojects alone as stated in the tables,5 an analysis of the
enterprises' operations over a period of 9 years showed that there exists a
high degree of exports to the convertible currency markets and foreign
exchange earnings. However, they are not a result of the subprojects alone.
It is therefore necessary in the future to ask investors to introduce such
records.
(1) Foreign Exchange Cofinancino
2.67    The efforts to mobilize additional funds showed reasonably
satisfactory results under both Credits, as they mobilized additional foreign
resources in the financing plans. In some subprojects, the amounts exceeded
the amount of the Bank's subloans to individual subprojects.
(m)  Qualitv of the-Portfolio of the Subloans
2.68    This matter was largely discussed between the Bank and the Borrower as
to how to get a genuine picture of these relations. The Bank asked the
Borrower to supervise also the subborrower's earnings and portfolio.
2.69    In order for us to present relatively objectively this part of the PCR
as well, we shall in the absence of other possibilities, apply a
classification where subprojects are distributed in five categories of A (as
the best) and E as the worst.
2.70    Ranking of subprojects of the Fifth and Sixth Credits:
First Evaluation              Present Estimate!'
No. of                       No. of
Sub ro ects                    Sub rojects
A          6          17.65               3            8.82
B        25           73.52              11           32.35
C         3           15.44              15           44.11
D         -               -               5           14.71
E 
34         100.00              34           100l 00
i' As of July 30, 1991
s Kept in project files.



- 27 -
(n) Conclusions on Proiect Implementation Efficiency
2.71    The cooperation between the Bank and SBS as a Borrower i. nearing two
decades. From the aspect of the Borrower, we estimate that during all this
period, understanding existed regarding positions on, and intentions for, an
operative improved cooperation, and at the satne time, extension of assistance
and suggestions by the Bank to the Borrower.
2.72    This is, in itself, a quality to be valued, taking into consideration
the initial work in a system full of specificities, and more than one decade
of economic problems and preparations in a new economic system of operations.
2.73    For both Projects, as measured with the objectives and the
implementation, and seen through the analysis of achieved, partly achieved and
accomplished targets, the positive implementation results of these two Credits
are predominant.
2.74    The synthesis of these results may be estimated through what we have
so far succeeded to see from the analysis of these two Credits involving 34
subprojects, but there remains to analyze further the specific results that
are vaguely represented in the enterprises' overall results.
2.75    We mention among positive results the mobilization of additional
funds, the degree of improvement of appraisal, the degree of improvement of
supervision (although in most cases still with respect to subprojects financed
by the Bank, and to a much lesser extent with other subprojects).
2.76    The present reorganization of the Borrower SBS is strengthening the
professional staff in the Investment Operations Division, and will provide
technical equipment and setting up of an Investment Economics Center.
2.77    If the Bank considers our assessment, we think that this is an
opportunity to raise an initiative for a package loan that would pertain to
financing small and medium enterprises subprojects in the private sector in
the amount of USS 15 million, as well as a loan to mixed sector enterprises in
the amount of US$ 20 million, all for export-oriented services and products
subprojects .6
6 SBS is being advised that the Bank has taken note cf this request and
an appropriate response will be determined on the basis of consultations with
the Federal Government as to future Bank assistance to Yugoslavia.



-28-
PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Table 1
Loan                                                                 Year of
No.        Loan Title              Purpose                           Approval   Status     Comments
1012-YU    First Industrial Credit  Reduction of regional imbalances  1974      Closed     PPAR issued
and                                by support of small and medium                          6/84
1013-YU                            industries in four less developed
republics and provinces, institution-
building, and foreign exchange
mobilization
1277-YU    Second Industrial Credit    Continuation of support for   1976       Closed     PCR issued
reduction of regional imbalances            12/81       12/86
by support of small and medium
industries in four less developed
republics and provinces, institution-
building, and foreign exchange
mobilization
1611-YU    Third Industrial Credit  Continuation of support for      1978       Closed     PCR issued
reduction of regional imbalances            12/83       12/86
by support of small and medium
industries in four less developed
republics and provinces, institution-
building, and foreign exchange
mobilization
1612-YU,   Fourth Industrial Credit    Continuation of support for   1978       Closed     PCR issued
1613-YU                            reduction of regional imbalances             12/83       12/86
and                                 by support of small and medium
1614-YU                            industries in four less developed
republics and provinces, institution-
building, and foreign exchange
mobilization
2790-YU    Energy Conservation     To promote energy conservation    1987       Disbursing  Expected
and Fuel Substitution   and fuel substitution and                               closing date
Project                 institutional strengthening.                            12/92
2980-OYU,  Export Industries        To expedite growth of efficient  1986       Withdrawn   Loan offer
2980-1YU   Project                  exporting from Yugoslavia and to                        withdrawn by
& 2980-                            strengthen three borrowing banks                        the Bank in
2YU                                to enhance resource allocation and                       1989 after
promote greater financial                               borrowers
discipline.                                             delayed loan
signature



- 29 -
2.  Pro-Lect Timetables
Table 2a. Prolect Timetable - Fifth Industrial Credit
Original           Revised      Actual
Item              Date               Date         Date
Preappraisal                                                     06/1979
Appraisal                                                        11/1979
Loan Negotiations                                                08/1980
Board Approval                                                   10/1980
Loan Signature                                                   02/1981
Loan Effectiveness         05/81                                 08/1981
Loan Closing
-     1909-YU             10/31/1984         10/31/1985          10/31/1986
-     1910-YU             10/31/1984         12/31/1985          12/31/1985
-     1911-YU             10/31/1984         10/31/1985          10/31/1986
-     1912-YU             10/31/1984         10/31/1985          10/31/1985
Final Disbursement
-     1909-YU                                                   05/11/1987
-     1910-YU                                                    07/23/1986
-     1911-YU                                                    01/07/1987
-     1912-YU                                                   04/30/1986
Table 2b. Proiect Timetable - Sixth Industrial Credit
Original           Revised            Actual
Item                     Date                Date               Date
-     Preappraisal                                                     6/81
-     Appraisal                                                        9/81
-     Loan Negotiations                                                3/82
-     Board Approval            5/82               4/82                4/82
-     Loan Signature                                                   5/82
-     Loan Effectiveness        8/82               11/82               11/82
-     Loan Closing
-     2132-YU             12/31/1987                      12/31/1987
-     2133-YU             12/31/1987         12/31/1988  12/31/1988
-     Final Disbursement
2132-YU                                                 6/10/1988
2133-YU                                                 7/14/1989



- 30 -
Table 2c.  Project Timetable   Seventh Industrial Credit
Original           Revised            Actual
Item                     Date                  Date             Date
Preappraisal
Appraisal                                                        11/82
Loan Negotiations                                                4/83
Board Approval                                                   7/83
Loan Signature                                                  10/83
Loan Effectiveness        2/84                                    2/84
Loan Closing
2339-YU            12/31/1988         12/31/1989       12/31/1989
2340-YU            12/31/1988         12/31/1989       12/31/1989
Final Disbursement
2339-YU                                                03/16/1990
2340-YU                                                10/06/1989



- 31 -
3. Use of Bank Resources
Table 3a. Use of Bank Resources - Fifth Industrial Credit
A. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weelks)
Stage of Project                         Actual Inputs
Upto Appraisal                             23.9
Appraisal to Board Approval                47.7
Board Approval through Effectiveness         -
Supervision                                52.1
Total                        123.7
B. MISSION DATA
Speciali-   Performance
Month/    No. of  Days in    zations re-      Rating    Types of
Year    Persons    Field   Represented    Stat/Trend  Problems
Upto Appraisal        06/79        3         7         T,F,E
09/79       2         7          T,E
Appraisal to Board    10/79        4        20           T.F,E
Approval
Board Approval to
Effectiveness
Supervision I        04/81         3                   F,E          2/1      M,F
II        10/81        1           7        F           2/2       M,F
III        02/83        1           5        E           1/2
IV        09/83        2           5        F,E         1/2
V        10/83        1          10        E            1/2
VI        05/84        2           7        F,E
VII        06/84         1          7        F
VIII        08/84         1          5        F
Ix        10/84        3           4        F,T         1/2       F,T
x        05/85        3           8        F            1/2      F,T
XI        06/85        3          10        F,T          1/2      F,T
XII        10/85        2           5        F,E          2/2      F,M
Speciaizadou:   T - Tdnoicla; F - FUimcDI: E- Ewnlist
Typo of ProbIci: M - Mamgnilal; F - Finaxri; T = Tchnical



- 32 -
Table 3b. Use of Bank Resources - Sixth Industrial Credit
A. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of Proiect                               Actual Inputs
Upto Appraisal                                      52.3
Appraisal to Board Approval                         43.6
Board Approval through Effectiveness        -
Supervision                                         73.6
Total                      169.5
B. MISSION DATA
Speciali-     Performance
Month/    No. of  Days in    zations re-       Rating      Types of
Year    Persons   Field    Renresented    Stat/Trend    Problems
Upto Appraisal      4/81
6/81       3      20          F,E
Appraisal to Board 9/81        3      18          F,E
Approval
Board Approval to
Effectiveness
Supervision  I    1/83          1          5         T            1/2
II    2/83         1           5        E            1/2
III     3/83        1          10        T             -
IV     9/83        2           5        F,E          1/2
V    10/83        1           5        F            1/2
VI    11/83         1          5        E            2/3      F,M,T
VII     5/84         2          7        F,E          2/2      F,T
VIII     6/84         1          5        F            2/2      F,M,T
IX    10/84        2           6        F            1/2      F,T
x                 3           7        F,T          2/1      M
XI     6/85        3           8        F            1/2      F,T,M
XII     5/86         1          3        F            2/3      F,M,T
XIII    11/87         2          7        F            3/3      F,M
Sjodizatim: T - T;dsk- F-Ft_naI, E Eanbs
Ty of Problm: M - Matail; F - FinandaI; T - Technical



- 33 -
Table 3c. Use of Bank Resources - Seventh Industrial Credit
A. STAFF INPUTS
(Staff Weeks)
Stage of Prolect                              Actual Inputs
Upto Appraisal                                    39.0
Appraisal to Board Approval                       32.4
Board Approval through Effectiveness                -
Supervision                                       65.9
Total          137.3
B. MISSION DATA
Speciali-   Performance
Monthly   No. of   Days in   zations re-    Rating   Types of
Year     Persons   Field    Reipresented  Stat/Trend Problems
Upto Appraisal       6/81       3         18        F,E
10/81      1          3        F
Appraisal to Board
Approval
Board Approval to
Effectiveness
Supervision
I   9/83        2          5         F           3/1
II  10/83        1         10         E           1/2
III   5/84        2          7         F,E
IV   6/84        1          6         F           3/1      H
V   8/84        1           5        F
VI   5/85        1           8        F
VII   6/85        1           6        F           2/3
VIII  10/85        2           5        F,E         2/2       F,M
IX   9/86        1          5         F
X  12/87        2           7        F           3/3       F,M
XI  12/88        1           5        F
SpedaelAUmu: F - Fbl; E - Eomblt
T1yw of Ptobkns: M- Mngcl; F - Fbnlal; T ' Tcdhdchl



- 34 -
4. Loan Disbursements
Table 4a. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements - Fifth Industrial Credit
(USS million)
Actual
as % of
Calendar                   Appraisal                                      Appraisal
Year      Ouarter        Estimate!'      Actual         Profile          Estimate
1981           1             6.0            0.0                              0.0
2            14.50           0.0             6.6              0.0
3            25.0            0.0                              0.0
4            36.5            0.0            14.3              0.0
1982           1            49.5            3.5                              7.0
2            62.5           12.1            37.4             19.4
3            74.0           18.4                             24.9
4            85.0           22.0            52.8             25.9
1983           1            93.5           27.2                             29.0
2           100.0           34.8            68.2             34.4
3           104.5           34.4                             40.0
4           108.0           46.3            85.8             42.9
1984           1           110.0           52.8                             48.0
2           110.0           57.5            96.8             52.3
3           110.0           62.0                             56.3
4           110.0           67.5           101.2             61.4
1985           1           110.0           73.5                             66.8
2           110.0           77.6           105.6             70.5
3           110.0           82.8                             75.3
4           110.0           85.7           110.0             77.9
1986           1           110.0           92.3                             83.9
2           110.0           95.8                             87.0
3           110.0           96.8                             88.0
4           110.0           98.2                             89.3
1987           1           110.0           98.5                             89.5
2           110.0           98.8                             89.8
Dates of Final Disbursement:
Loan 1909-YU    05/11/87
Loan 1910-YU    07/23/86
Loan 1911-YU    01/07/87
Loan 1912-YU    04/30/86
t' Loan amount was reduced to USS 100 million equivalent at negctiations.



- 35 -
Table 4b.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements - Sixth Industrial Credit
(US$ million)
Actual
as % of
Calendar       Appraisal                                     Appraisal
Year          Estimate      Actual         Profile         Estimate
1982            1.00          0.98           3.00            98.0
1983            9.20          8.68          12.21            94.4
1984           27.00         23.21          27.06            86.0
1985           44.80         40.88          46.20            91.3
1986           57.80         56.98          59.40            98.6
1987           66.00         62.53          64.68            94.7
1988           66.00         64.94          66.00            98.4
1989           66.00         65.47          66.00            99.2
Dates of Final Disbursement:
Loan 2132-YU    6/10/1988
Loan 2133-YU    7/14/1989



- 36 -
Table 4c. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements - Seventh Industrial Credit
(UsS million)
Actual
as % of
Calendar                       Appraisal                                Appraisal
Year         Ouarter         Estimate      Actual         Profile    Estimate
1983        1                0.00         0.0               0.00           0.0
2               0.20         0.0               0.01           0.0
1984        1                2.20         0.17              3.80           7.7
2               8.50          1.16             9.10          13.6
1985        1               19.70         2.96            16.80           15.0
2              33.00         8.46             23.80          25.4
1986         1              44.10        18.81            33.60           42.7
2              53.20        28.90             43.40          54.3
1987        1               60.20        43.40             54.60          62.0
2              65.10        51.16             61.60          78.6
1988        1               67.90        56.76             64.40          83.6
2              70.00        58.36             67.20          83.9
1989         1              70.00        60.02             66.00          85.7
2              70.00        62.51             66.00          89.3
1990        1               70.00        63.75            66.00           91.1
Dates of Final Disbursement:
Loan 2339-YU      03/16/1990
Loan 2340-YU      10/07/1989



- 37 -
5. Utilization of Loan Proceeds
Table 5a.  Utilization of Loan Proceeds - Fifth Industrial Credit
Amount of Loan Allocated
Original                Actual
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Loan 1909-YU
(1)   Subloans for Labor -
Intensive Investment Projects                    12,500             17,600
(2)   Subloans for Other Investment Projects             37,500             31.840
Total                           50,000             49,440
Loan 1910-YU
(1)   Subloans for Labor-Intensive
Investment Projects                               7,500             10,610
(2)   Subloans for Other Investment Projects             22.500             19,170
Total                           30,000             29,780
Loan 1911-YU
(1)   Subloans for Labor-Intensive
Investment Projects                               5,000             10,120
(2)   Subloans for Other Investment Projects             15,000              9,540
Total                           20,000             19,660
Loan 1912-YU
(1)   Subloans for Labor-Intensive
Investment Projects                               2,500              2,220
(2)   Subloans for Other Investment Projects              7.500              7,780
Total                           10,000             10,000



- 38 -
Table 5b.  Utilization of Loan Proceeds - Sixth Industrial Credit
Amount of Loan Allocated
Original                   Actual
(US$ '000 equivalent)
Loan 2132-YU
(1)   Subloans for Investment Projects             32,362                       32,462
(2)   Studies for Energy Conservation
and Conversion                               150                           -
(3)   Front End Fee                                   488                          488
Total                          33,000                       32,950
Loan 2133-YU
(1)   Subloans for Investment Projects             32,362                       31,902
(2)   Studies for Energy Conservation                 150                          145
and Conversion
(3)   Front End Fee                                   488                          488
Total                          33,000                       32,535



- 39 -
Table 5c.  Utilization of Loan Proceeds - Seventh Industrial Credit
Amount of Loan Allocated
Oriciinal                 Actual
(USS '000 equivalent)
Loan 2339-YU
(1)   Subloans for Investment Projects                 44,418                  41,618
(2)   Studies for Labor-Intensive and
Export-Oriented Industries, and
Training and Equipment                           470                      185
(3)   Front End Fee                                       112                      112
Total                              45,000                   41,915
Loan 2340-YU
(1)   Subloans for Investment Projects                 24,738                  21,751
(2)   Study for Export-Oriented Industries,
and Training and Equipment                       200                       14
(3)   Front End Fee                                     ___62                       62
Total                              25,000                   21,827



- 40 -
E;.          of Loan Covenants
Table 6a. Status of Loan Covenants - Fifth Industrial Credit
Type of           Agreement/
Status of
Covenant            Section                             Covenant                             Compliance
Management/       LA 3.01 (b)        Borrowers to carry out the Project with due diligence and  Complied.
Operations                           efficiency for which purpose they are to maintain a unit and
sub-unit to review every one of its proposed Investment
Projects and make appropriate recommendations thereon
to the Borrower.
Management/       LA 3.02 (a)        Borrowers to require, inter alia, that the Investment  Partially cc nplied;
Operations                           Enterprises carry out and operate the Investment Project  Borrowers unable to
with diligence and efficiency; obtain all such information as    require Investment
the Bank shall reasonable request relating to the      Enterprises to
administration, operations and financial condition of the  comply with requests
Investment Enterprise; and suspend or terminate the    to submit information
project of the Investment Enterprise to use the proceeds of   in time and in
the loan upon failure by such enterprise to perform its  adequate detail.
obligations under its contract with the Borrower.
Management/       LA 3.02 (b)        Borrowers to exercise their rights in relation to each  Partially complied;
Operations                           Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the  Borrowers unable to
interests of the Bank and the Borrowers; (ii) comply with its   impose penalties on
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the  Investment
proposes of the Project.                               Enterprises.
Management/       LA 3.03            Borrowers to maintain records adequate to record the   Partially complied;
Operations                           progress of the Project and of each Investment Project  reporting continued
(including the cost thereof, the amount of financing   to be partial, a
provided by the Borrower, disbursements, repayments,   irregular intervals, of
interest) and furnish to the Bank quarterly reports thereon  less than adequate
in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request within  quality.
45 days of the close of the quarter concerned.
Management/       LA 3.04 (b)        Not later than six months after the respective Closing  Not complied.
Operations                           Dates of this Loan, the Borrowers shall in cooperation with
each other, through the unit, prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report on the execution and initial operations of the
Investment Projects, their costs and benefits, and the
performance of the Borrowers of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement.
Management/       LA 3.07            Unless the Bank agrees otherwise, the Borrowers        Complied.
Operations                           undertake to charge on their domestic resources made
available to the Investment Projects (other than those
mode available by the Federal one provincial Funds for
Accelerating Development of the Less Developed Regions)
an annual rate of interest of at least 10%/O per annum.
Financial         LA 4.01            Borrowers to maintain procedures and records adequate  Partially complied;
to monitor and record the progress of the Project and o'    Borrowers unable to
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits    obain fully, and on
derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with     time, the required
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices  information from the
the operations and financial conditions of the Borrower.  Investment
Enterprises.



- 41 -
Financial         LA 4.02           Borrowers to have their accounts and financial statements  Complied with delays
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound  in some cases.
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experienced
independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank
and furnish the audited reports to the Bank not later than
six months after the end of each such year.



- 42 -
Table 6b. Status of Loan Covenants - Sixth Industrial Credit
Type of           Agreement/
Status of
Covenant            Section                             Covenant                             Compliance
Management/       LA 3.01 (b)        Borrowers to carry out the Project and conduct their   Complied.
Operations                           operations in accordance with sound financia! standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and, to that end, maintain units satisfactory to the Bank to
carry out agreed functions.
Management/       LA 3.02 (a)        Borrowers to require Investment Enterprises to carry out  Partially complied;
Operations                           and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and  Borrowers unable to
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial   require Investment
and management standards, and to maintain adequate     Enterprises to
records; obtain all such information as the Bank or the  comply with requests
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing    to submit information
and to the administration, operations and financial    in time and in
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and to the benefits  adequate detail.
to be derived from the Investment Project; and take
specified penal actions including interest rate penalties,
restrictions on future lending, and acceleration of sub-loan
maturity if the Investment Enterprises fail to meet agreed
export targets for reasons that can reasonably be
contributed to negligence or lack of efforts on the part of
the Investment Enterprise.
Management/       LA 3.02 (b)        Borrowers to exercise their rights in relation to each  Partially complied;
Operations                           Investment Project such as to protect the interests of the  Borrowers unable to
Bank and the Borrower, comply with their coJligations  impose penalties on
under the Loan Agreement, and achieve the purposes of  Investment
the Project.                                           Enterprises.
Management/       LA 3.03            Borrowers to maintain records adequate to record the   Partially complied;
Operations                           progress of the Project and of each Investment Project  reporting continued
(including the cost thereof, the amount of 'inancing   to be partial, at
provided by the Borrowers, disbursements, repayments,  irregular Intervals,
interest and other charges) and within 45 days of the close    and of less than
of each quarter furnish the reports to the Bank in such  uniform quality.
detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
Management/       LA 3.4 (a)         Borrowers to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all  Partially complied;
Operations                           such information as the Bank shall reasonably request  Borrowers not able
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,  to comply fully due
the Project, the Sub-Loans, and where appropriate, the  to difficulties In
benefits from the foregoing.                           obtaining timely and
adequate responses
from the Investment
Enterprises.
Management/       LA 3.04 (b)        Within six months following the last withdrawal from the  Not complied.
Operations                           Loan Account the Borrowers shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report of such scope and in such detai; as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operations of the Investment Projects, their costs and
benefits to be derived from them, the performance by the
Borrowers and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement.



- 43 -
Table 6b. (Continued)
Type of          Agreement/
Status of
Covenant           Section                             Covenant                            Compliance
Management/       LA 3.05           Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, Borrowers to    Complied.
Operations                          charge an annual rate of interest of at least 15% per
annum on their domestic resources made available to
Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects (other than
these resources made available by the Federal and
Republican Funds for Accelerating the Development of the
less Developed Regions)
Management/       LA 3.06 (a)       Borrowers to carry out, in accordance with terms of    SBS carried out
Operations                          reference agreed with the Bank, a program of studies to  studies and audits;
identify and develop Energy-Saving Investment Projects.  PBS component was
dropped and amount
reallocated to other
Investment Projects.
Management/       LA 3.07           Borrowers to supervise and monitor the actual export   Partially complied;
Operations                          performance of the Export-Oriented Investment Projects  Borrowers unable to
and furnish the Bank, every six months, or annually, as the    impose penalties due
case may be, reports on the actual export performance,  to difficulties in
including a statement of reasons for shortfall, if any, and  ascribing negligence
actions being taken or proposed by the Borrower and   or a lack of effort to
Investment Enterprise to improve export performance.  the non-performing
Investment
Enterp, ises.
Fin jncial        LA 4.01           Borrowers to maintain procedures and records adequate  Partially complied;
to monitor and record the progress of the Project and  Borrowers unable to
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits    obtain requisite
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with  information from the
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the  Investment
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.   Enterprises.
Financial         LA 4.02           Borrowers to have their accounts and financial statements  Complied with
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound  frequent delays due,
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social  in part, to shortage
Accounting Service or another competent and experience  of audit staff in the
independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank,    Social Accounting
and furnish the audited reports to the Bank not later than  Service.
six months after the end of each such year.
Financial         LA 4.05           Borrowers to take steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall  Complied
be necessary to protect themselves against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchanges between
the currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Financial         LA 4.08           Borrowers to establish by December 31, 1982, or such   Partially complied;
later date as may be agreed with the Bank, and thereafter  supervision effort
maintain, arrai.jements satisfactory to the Bank for  fluctuated with
strengthening the supervision of Investment Projects  changes in
financed out of Bank loans to the Borrowers.          personnel.



- 44 -
Table 6c. Status of Loan Covenants - Sever,' Industrial Credit
Type of           Agreement/
Status of
Covenant            Section                             Covenant                             Compliance
Management/       LA 3.01 (b)        Borrowers to carry out the Project and conduct their   Complied.
Operations                           operations in accordance with sound financial standards
and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and, to that end, maintain units satisfactory to the Bank to
carry out agreed functions.
Management/       LA 3.02 (a)        Borrowers to require Investment Enterprises to carry out  Partially complied;
Operations                           and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and  Borrowers unable to
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial   require Investment
and management standards, and to maintain adequate     Enterprises to
records; obtain all such information as the Bank or the  comply with requests
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing    to submit information
and to the administration, operations and financial    in time and in
condition of tie Investment Enterprise; and to the benefits    adequate detail.
to be derived from the Investment Project; and take
specified penal actions including interest rate penalties,
restrictions on future lending, and acceleration of sub-loan
maturity if the Investment Enterprises fail to meet agreed
export targets for reasons that can reasonably be
contributed to negligence ur lack of efforts on the part of
the Investment Enterprise.
Management/       LA 3.02 (b)        Borrowers to exercise their rights in relation to each  Partially complied;
Operations                           Investment Project such as to protect the interests of the  Borrowers unable to
Bank and the Borrower, comply with their obligations   impose penalties on
under the Loan Agreement, and achieve the purposes of  Investment
the Project.                                           Enterprises.
Management/       LA 3.03            Borrowers to maintain records adequate to record the   Partially complied;
Operations                           progress of the Project and of each Investment Project  reporting continued
(including the cost thereof, the amount of financing   to be partial, at
provided by the Borrowers, disbursements, repayments,  irregular intervals,
interest and other charges) and within 45 days of the close    and of less than
of each quarter furnish the reports to the Bank in such  uniform quality.
detail as the Bank may reasonably request.
Management/       LA 3.4 (a)         Borrowers to furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all  Partially complied;
Operations                           such information as the Bank shall reasonably request  Borrowers not able
concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan,  to comply fully due
the Project, the Sub-Loans, and where appropriate, the  to difficulties in
benefits from the foregoing.                           obtaining timely and
adequate responses
from the Investment
Enterprises.
Management/       LA 3.04 (b)        Within six months following the last withdrawal from the  Not complied.
Operations                           Loan Account the Borrowers shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operations of the Investment Projects, their costs and
benefits to be derived from them, the performance by the
Borrowers and the Bank of their respective obligations
under the Loan Agreement.



- 45 -
Table 6c. (Continued)
Type of           Agreement/
Status of
Covenant            Section                             Covenant                             Compliance
Management/        3.05              Unless the Bank shal; otherwise agree, Borrowers to    Complied
Operations                           charge an annual rate of interest of at least 18% per
annum on their domestic resources made available to
Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects (other than
these resources made available by the Federal and
Republican Funds for Accelerating the Development of the
less Developed Regions).
Management/       LA 3.06 (a)        Borrowers to carry out, in accordance with terms of    Not complied.
Operations                           reference agreed with the Bank, studies to identify and
develop labor-intensive and export-oriented investment
projects.
Management/       LA 3.07            Borrowers to supervise and monitor the actual export   Partially complied;
Operations                           performance of the Export-Oriented Investment Projects  Borrowers unable to
and furnish the Bank, every six months, or annually, as the    impose penalties due
case may be, rep ,rts on the actual export performance,  to difficulties to
including a statenment of reasons for shortfall, if any, and  ascribe negligence or
actions being taken or proposed by the Borrower and    a lack of effort to the
Investment Enterprise to improve export performance.   non-performing
Investment
Enterprises.
Financial         LA 4.01            Borrowers to maintain procedures and records adequate  Partially complied;
to monitor and record the progress of the Project and  Borrowers unable to
each Investment Project (including its cost and the benefits    obtain requisite
to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance with  information from the
consistently maintained sound accounting practices the  Investment
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.    Enterprises.
Financial         LA 4.02            Borrowers to have their accounts and financial statements  Complied with
for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound  frequent de!ays due,
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social  in part, to shortage
Accounting Service or another competent and experience  of audit staff in the
independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank,    Social Accounting
and furnish the audited reports to the Bank not later than  Service.
six months after the end of each such year.
Financial         LA 4.05            Borrowers to take steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall  Complied
be necessary to protect themselves against risk of loss
resulting from changes in the rates of exchanges between
the currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDITS
(Loans 1909/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
Macroeconomic Developments and Policy Reforms Since the Early 1980's
Risina Inflation and Limited Structural Adjustment During the 1980s
1.          The strong growth of the Yugoslav economy in the 1970s (Gross
Social Product grew at an annual average rate of 6% between 1970 and 1980) was
led by a rapid expansion in domestic demand. During 1970-1980, fixed
investment rose at an average annual rate of 8%, while consumption grew by 6%.
However, insufficient attention was paid to efficiency and the need for
improving the quality of investment. Rigidities in the markets for goods and
factors of production, distorted relative prices and excessive protection for
domestic industries resulted in deteriorating productivity of investment and a
sharp rise in the incremental capi.tal output ratio. In addition, excessive
wage and personal income distributions coupled with low, even negative
compensation to capital, severely distorted relative factor prices.
2.          The domestic demand-driven growth manifested itself in growing
current account deficits which rose from less than 1% of GSP between 1965-
1969 to 6% 1979. These deficits were financed through external borrowing,
leading ultimately to a heavy debt burden in the 1980s. The burden of debt
service, the recession in OECD countries, and the increasing reluctance of
international creditors to lend to Yugoslavia (following the debt problems in
other countries), forced the Government to attempt to reduce domestic demand
and balance of payments deficits. These efforts were supported by a series of
IMF Standby agreements during the period 1980-1985, a World Bank Structural
Adjustment Loan (Ln. 2326-YU) in FY83, and by debt restructuring agreements
with governments and commercial banks. A strong compression of imports,
combined with modest growth of exports, succeeded in eliminating the current
account deficits in the balance of payments. By 1983, a small surplus (0.6%
of GSP) had been achieved. However, this transformation of the external
balance was achieved at a cost: GSP stagnated between 1980-1985 and domestic
inflation (as measured by the growth of the retail price index (RPI)) rose
from an average annual rate of 20% in the 1970s to an average of 50% between
1980-1985.
3.          In an effort to stimulate growth, economic policy was reversed in
1986. Earlier efforts to contain domestic demand and adjust the structure of
the economy were weakened; there was significant relaxation in financial
discipline, monetary, fiscal and incomes policies. Real wages rose sharply,
public sector spending increased markedly in real terms, and monetary policy



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
offered little resistance to rising inflationary pressures. In addition price
controls were reimposed, real interest rates became more negative, and the
allocation of foreign exchange was even more tightly administered. Though the
consequent increase in domestic demr,and stimulated GSP growth of 3% in 1986,
there was an upsurge in inflation (88%) and a worsening in Yugoslavia's trade
deficit and external payments position wjith the convertible currency area.
Significant backsliding in implementation of structural reforms alno occurred.
Efforts were made once again in 1987 to contain domestic demand and improve
the current account of the balance of payments. Although exports rose
significantly import volumes were reduced by more than 11%. The resulting
current account surplus of US$1 billion was offset by net outflows of more
than US$ 2.7 billion of snort-term capital flows (including errors and
omissions). The consequent depletion in reserves led Yugoslavia to request
foreign commercial banks to accept a postponement of repayments of principal;
as a result, about $347 million of payments falling due in 1987 were carried
over into 1988. The domestic economy also fared poorly. GSP declined by 0.5%
and inflation accelerated to 167%.
Recoqnition of the Crisis and the Initiation of Reforms
4.          The extent of the economic crisis was finally acknowledged by the
Government in late 1987 by means of the issuance of the first of several
programs aimed at fundamental economic reform. The Government attempted to
strengthen its anti-inflation program by agreeing to another Standby with the
IMF in May 1988. The program sought to reduce excess domestic demand and
inflation but also laid stress on correcting important structural weaknesses
in the economy. It included a set of drastic policy measures to accelerate
liberalization of prices, trade, and foreign exchange allocation, as well as
to achieve real positive interest rates and adjust the exchange rate at
appropriate levels.  Between May 1988 and the end of 1989, the percentage of
controlled prices as measured by the industrial producers' price index was
reduced from 85% to less than 25%; and the percentage of totally free imports
rose from less than 30% to over 85%. All foreign exchange transactions were
conducted through an interbank market which was freed from administrative
controls, and the policy regarding exchange rates appeared to be operating
efficiently. However, the program failed to reduce inflation primarily
because ill-defined targets for money and credit growth enabled excessive
expansion of these variables and ultimately of aggregate demand. Some
progress on structural -'orms was achieved, however. For the first time,
real interest rates were r  _   to positive levels and the financing of loss-
making enterprises using inter-enterprise credits was reduced. This program
formed the basis for a broader financial assistance package from Yugoslavia's
external creditors. At the same time the Government initiated measures to
strengthen market forces and to improve the efficiency of the economy. The
foreign exchange allocation system was liberalized in May 1988; the Dinar was
devalued in real terms by 19.3%; and first steps were taken to liberalize the
domestic pricing and the foreign trade regimes.



- 49 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
5.          Although such measures did remove some of the existing
distortions, inflation accelerated dramatically during this period. such
acceleration resulted from the failure to address the fundamental imbalances
of the Yugoslav economy--the losses of enterprises, banks and the National
Bank of Yugoslavia (NBY). Since these losses had not been eliminated, their
financing through monetary accommodation by NBY continued at a strong pace.
The failure of the 1988 program provided a sobering policy lesson that was
fully reflected in the design of the 1990 program.
Recent Economic Reform
6.          The IMF-supported stabilization program of 1990 comprised: (i) the
convertibility of the Dinar for individuals, a fixed exchange rate against the
Deutsche Mark, and full liberalization of nominal interest rates, (ii) a
fiscal adjustment of approximately 5 percent of GSP, (iii) a tight credit
policy, (iv) an initial devaluation of the exchange rate followed by a freeze,
(v) a freeze on wages and, (vi) a freeze on prices of a set of products and
services amounting to 25 percent of the CPI basket. The enforcement of a
tight credit policy was made possible by the 1989 NBY Law which removed all
impediments to NBY in the use of monetary instruments, and transferred all
qussi-fiscal activities to the budget of the Federation. The fiscal
adju9-.Jient was designed to cover NBY's previous quasi-fiscal deficit as well
as new expenditures relating to the restructuring of the economy, including
expenditures in 1990 for the Bank restructuring program, the financing of 1989
uncovered enterprise losses, and for expansion of the social safety net.
7.          In parallel with the above measures, and in order to facilitate a
supply response, a sweeping set of new laws were adopted to promote the
restructuring of the enterprise and banking sectors. The 1989 NBY Law took a
first step in empowering NBY to regulate the banking system. The 1989 Banking
Law established the principle that banks must be profit-seeking and
independent business entities, opened up equity investment in banks to a range
of parties, removed key structural implements to structural implements to
competition in the banking sector and mandated a process of relicensing of all
banks. The 1989 Law on Enterprises and on Social Capital opened up
possibilities for significant expansion of enterprise ownership patterns and
provided a mechanism for sale of socially-owned assets. The 1989 Financial
Operations Act and a Bankruptcy Law provided a mechanism for automatic
triggering of bankruptcy actions and significantly strengthened the rights of
creditors in seeking initiation of settlement and bankruptcy proceedings. The
1989 Labor Code established the right of enterprises to transfer or release
workers. Finally, the 1989 Accounting Law made substantial progress in
orienting accounting in Yugoslavia towards internationally accepted
principles.
The Restructurina of the Banking Sector
8.          The reforms currently under implementation are the first
concrete attempt to correct the fundamental macroeconomic imbalances of the
Yugoslav economy, as well as its structural deficiencies. A program for
comprehensive restructuring of the banking system, within the context of the



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5
stabilization and structural adjustment programs which are being supported
under the IMF SBA and SAL II, is now at the forefront of the Government's
overall reform effort.
9.          The reform of the banking system was initiated in 1989 with the
adoption of new laws on NBY, on banking and on bank rehabilitation (para. 7).
They also launched a process of relicensing of all banks by NBY, and
instituted a framework to govern bank restructuring. By May 1990, 67 banks
had been relicensed and 11 banks had been given new licenses. Audits to
international standards of all licensed or relicensed banks have been
completed; an Agency for Bank Rehabilitation and Deposit Insurance has been
established; and restructuring of two illiquid banks was in progress.
10.         Significant steps for further elaboration and enhancement of the
legal and reaulatory framework are being undertaken. Amendments to the 1989
Laws on NBY and banking were made in 1990. NBY also begun to issue a set of
prudential regulations (on capital adequacy, asset classification,
provisioning and interest accruals, accounting and auditing, etc.) which will
provide the major elements of a sound prudential framework within which banks
will be expected to operate. A program for further upgrading of banking
legislation and regulations, to bring this framework into close accord with
the central and commercial banking framework in advanced market economies, is
to be implemented in 1991. The Government's program also encompasses three
important areas of institutional development in the banking sector. These
include: major enhancement of prudential supervision, build up of bank
restructuring capacities, and establishment (probably with US assistance) of a
Banking and Finance Institute at the national level to provide specialized
technical training in banking and finance.
11.         Comprehensive bank audits carried out with the assistance of a
reputed foreign audit firm have confirmed that the re-licensed banks continue
to carry a very large proportion of impaired assets. Lending rates continue
to be high and to constitute an impediment to investment by viable and new
enterprises.   Therefore, determined and accelerated action to restructure the
banks' lending portfolios is crucial to meeting the Government's goal of
reforming the banking system and spurring the restructuring and growth of the
economy. Because of the size and the complexity of the system and the high
level of skills that would be required, it will be necessary to phase the
program for comprehensive restructuring of the banking system over a five year
period.
12.         The restructuring of the problem banks by the Bank Rehabilitation
Agency is expected to be undertaken through write-off of its potential losses
against capital, change of the bank's management, takeover of problem assets,
investment in its capital, merger with other banks, privatization or other
means. The Agency will aim at returning the banks to profitability and at
divesting itself as soon as feasible of the shares in banks which it will
acquire through the restructuring process. It is also mandated to ensure that



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
new owners will own at least two thirds of the shares of these banks. This is
expected to result in substantial change in the structure of bank ownership.
At the same time, a program of across-the-board action is before the Federal
Assembly. The across-the-board measures would consist of two types. The
first, directed to rehabilitation of the assets of the banks, would include
absorption by the Federation of selected foreign exchange liabilities of the
enterprises, the payment of valuation charges, the conversion of short-term
selective credits, and the advance repayment of loans from the Soviet Union.
The second, aimed at enhancing the banks, income performance, includes
increases on the remuneration rate on required reserves and the conditional
purchase of non-performing assets from the banks. Such assistance would be
conditioned to the assisted banks agreeing to undertake specific holdina
actions (including restrictions on lending to problem borrowers, on capital
withdrawal and dividend payments, etc.) as well as action programs for
institutional strengthening.
13.         The Bank Rehabilitation Agency had been provided an amount of US$
250 million equivalent in the Federal budget for 1990, and expected to receive
about US$ 100 million equivalent from insurance premia on bank deposits.
These resources were to be used to pay interest on bonds to be issued by the
Agency to finance banking restructuring. A law has been prepared to provide
for the Federal Government's guarantee of such bonds. Subsequent authorities
will also be needed in ensuir.g years.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDITS
(Loans 1901/1910/1911/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU
Structure of the Yugoslav Banking System in the 1980's
1.          The financial institutions within the Yugoslav financial system
included: (i) the central banking system which consisted of the NBY and the
national banks of the six Republics and two Autonomous Provinces (RAPs); (ii)
the commercial banking system which consisted of 166 basic banks and nine
associated banks; and (iii) other financial institutions including the Post
Office Savings bank, the Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation
(YBIEC), and internal banks. The other important organizations which closely
related to these financial institutions were: the Social Accounting Service
(SDK), and the Association of Yugoslav Banks (YBA).
2.          The central banking system is responsible for planning and
implementing monetary policies. The governor of NBY is appointed by the
Federal Assembly, and the governors in RAPS by the local assemblies. The nine
governors, each with an equal vote, constitute a board which makes policy
decisions. NBY controlled credit extension of commercial banks directly via
obligatory reserve requirements, required liquidity ratios and credit
ceilings, and indirectly via allocation of loans to preferred sectors. These
selective credits and the monetary and credit policies empowered NBY to
control, to a certain extent, the behavior and performance of the commercial
banks.
3.          After 1972, the commercial banking structure changed from one
consisting of commercial banks and investment banks to a mixed banking system
engaged in both short-term and long-term operations. Commercial banks in the
1980's consisted of basic banks, and associated banks. The basic banks were
self-managed financial organizations representing the core of the commercial
banking system and functioned as financial intermediaries engaged in short-
term and long-term operations with public and private clients. The founding
members of basic banks were the enterprises, internal banks of enterprises,
self-management communities, and other institutions except governments. Two
or more basic banks could form an associated bank through a Self-Management
Agreement (SMA). The major functions of associated banks were to pool
resources and to handle foreign exchange operations on behalf of their member
basic banks. Basic banks tended to be members of the associated bank of the
same region.
4.          The basic feature of the Yugoslav banks was the structure of
ownership by the enterprises. The banks' assemblies, boards of directors and



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
their credit committees were composed of representatives of founding
enterprises. The banks' management boards were appointed by the assemblies.
Under regulations then in effect, founding members had unlimited liability for
the obligations of their bank. This liability was later limited in the case
of dinar obligations to the funds invested by members in their banks.
5.          An internal bank was a financial service organization established
through an SMA among Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL). Although
internal banks were not considered financial institutions in the proper sense
and were not subject to monetary regulation, they were very important as a
cooperative source of funding to facilitate investment of their member BOALs.
These banks were closed financial institutions of BOALS and communities of
interest. They were allowed to accept deposits only from member BOALs and
their workers.
6.          YBIEC was a semigovernmental institution which was established in
1980 for the promotion of foreign economic cooperation. YBIEC's owners were
over three hundred major capital goods and services exporters, and its funds
were obtained mainly from the commercial banks under a pool agreement and from
NBY. A new law of June 1987 gave YBIEC broad authority to borrow and lend,
guarantee and insure, and provide information and assistance to other banks
and exporters. YBIEC's primary operations were the rediscounting of export
credits from commercial banks which are cvzrently restricted to capital
equipment, ships, major projects, overseas investment and engineering
services. YBIEC also provided noncommercial export credit insurance to
exporters and offered commercial insurance in cooperation with other local
insurance and reinsurance companies. YBIEC's export credit insurance program
also covered raw materials, intermediate goods and consumer products. YBIEC
had a council which oversees operations on behalf of the government and is
responsible for export financing and joint ventures. The president and the
secretary of the council are appointed by the Federal Executive Council.
7.          SDK was the financial auditor of banks and enterprises and other
entities. All social legal entities were required to maintain accounts in
SKD which also serves as a clearing house for all transactions carried out by
these entities (except government). SDK reports directly to the Federal
Assembly and the assemblies of republics and autonomous provinces.
8.          All banks have to be members of YBA, whose most significant
function was to initiate and organize cooperation among member banks through
self-management agreements. A notable example of these were the agreements on
uniform interest rates on deposits. The YBA managed the development of the
Common Methodology for Investment Selection which was to be applied throughout
Yugoslavia.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 4
PART fi1 OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1909-YU (KBP) 1/
Subproject                  Industry             Type   Date of  Bank      Total        FRR      ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identification              Branch/                     Approval Subloan  Project       t%)      CX)   Created  Worker
and Nane                    Product                               (USS mn.)Cost                                    CUSS)
(USS mn.)
A-1 Taftison GJuiane        carpets            LI,JV    7/82          3.36    14.24      15.1     17.8       460    30956
A-2 Tool Plant Ferizaoe    tools               JV       9/82          3.29    11.39      20.9     27.7       300    37968
A-3 Zonica Reinf. Podujevo steel pr.           JV       9/82          3.46     21.4      17.7       26       400    52589
A-4 Emin Duraku             garments                                  0.92
A-5 Vinex Kosovska          fasteners          JV        11/82         2.9      7.92     22.9      16.7      178    44466
A-6 Fapol Podulevo          poly. poles        JV       3/83          3.02     9.84        19     28.9       200    49210
A-7 PoLet Stockings         knitwear           LIlJV    6/83          2.61     9.64      15.2      18.6      400    24095
A-8 Famips Prizren          cutlery            JV       8/83          2.79     8.16      15.5     20.5       180    45333
A-9 Furniture Ferizaj       furniture          Li        12/84        0.13      12.4     26.7     28.9       591    12000
B-1 Construct. Kosovo       concrete prod.    LI        9/81          0.62     3.61      25.9     27.2       102    30980
8-2 Energofnvest Fabike    transformers        LI        12/81         0.9      4.3      22.2     25.9       150    28666
8-3 Peugeot Shock Absorb.  valves, pistons              12/81         1.48     8.61      18.5     22.7       187    46042
B-4 Montimi II              moulded prod.      LI       3/82                     1.2     31.9                 62    19355
9-5 18 Wentorl              sacks & bags                3/82          1.22       2.1     24.3     20.9        50    42000
9-6 Gival Curtains Rashel  curtains            LI       4/82          0.94      1.59       28                 72    22083
B-7 Roshko Oakiq Ferizaj   auto reapirs        LI       4/82          0.57      1.36       26     22.5       128    10625
B-8 Metalfku Gjakove        metal prod.        JV       8/82          1.95      12.6     18.5      16.3      163    77300
9-9 Fur Plant PjeJ          fur products       LI        10/82        0.53      3.04     13.4     21.9       126    24126
9-10 UTI Emmn Duraku        garments           Li        1/83         1.72      7.56     19.8      18.3      449    16837
8-11 INK Tube FerizaJ       heat exchangers   JV        4/83          1.27    12.63      23.9        25      337    37477
B-12 Crown Bottle Caps      bottle caps        JV       4/83          2.13      3.37     17.8      20.3       68    49558
B-13 Syn. Yarns Progres    syn. f IL. yarns   LI        9/83          0.97      4.71       18      23.6      220    21409
B-14 Auto Galv. Famipa      gelvon. prod.      LI       2/84          0.37      0.71     22.5      26.1       50    14200
B-15 Trepca Ind. Battery   indust. batteries            3/84          1.16      1.43     21.3        24       43    33256
E-16 Famipa Prizren         rivets,plates      LI       9/84          0.68      0.97                          50    19370
8-17 Mining Equip. GJlilane minirg equip.      LI,JV    10/84                   5.91     20.4      24.3      408    14485
B-18 Garments Kluz Glogovasgarments            LI,JV    10/84         0.33      3.12     19.7      21.6      298    11172
8-19 Garments Junfk         garments           LI        12/84        0.73
B-20 Tannery Peje           leather prod.
Total/Average                                                             204.1                         7346    27784
.......................... ...........................................................
1/ Except for the Bank subloans, proJect details are ex-ante, as appraised.
Li a labor-intensive; JV a joint venture.



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
PART III OF PROJECT CWOPLETION REPCkr
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1910-YU (PBS) 1/
Subproject                 IrOAtry             Type   Date of  Sank      Total       FRR      ERR   Jobs     Cost Per
identification            eranch                      Approval Subioan  Project      tX)      CX)   Created  worker
and 1N1                                                        (USS nn.)Cost                                   (USS)
CUSS on.)
A-1 Jahorina Sumartstvo    wood tminates              9/81          3.06     11.9       16       18      220    54090
A-2 Koffr GypriM Ptater   gypsut pwwls    JV          S/81          3.67     9.39       24       29       72   130416
A-3 Footwear Dervanta      footwear          Li       3/82           1.3     1.93     19.5       24       80    24274
A-4 Strolit Od2ak          foundry prod.              6/82          2.38     4.26       30     34.5       35   121802
B-I Vitex Visoko Yarn      coei,ed yarn      LI       6/81
B-2 Knezopotjka Bosaka   yarn                LI       8/81          0.08     12.6       21       23      382    32984
8-3 Unicep RO Celpek       paper products    LI       8/81          1.07     2.15       16       17      114    18877
B-4 Plastikal KaLeslia     wrapping maters.           8/81          0.07     1."        15       16       33    43364
B-5 Siped RO Jani          sawmitt prod.              8/81          0.42     2.39       26     27.5      -83
B-6 Igiin Groit            chslk                      8/8i                   1.52       17       19       43    34093
B-7 Jeta Kozaravac         saill prod.                8/81           0.4     2.73       26       27       *73
B-8 Energoinvest Bilteca    moulded forgings          8/81          0.94    16.23       16       18      350    46286
0-9 Unis RO Springs        springs           LI       8/81          1.04     1.96       20       21       165    11878
B-10 Titovi Rudnici Uglja  stone products    Li       8/81          0.58     1.36       16       18       42    32380
B-11 Alija Hsadzic Uoot    wooL produvts     LI       8/81          1.89     4.56     31.1       32      135    33778
B-12 InceL RO Silk Celina c silk products             8/81          1.49    15.25     19.4       21      292    52226
B-13 Sipad RO Maglic       hard boards                8/81          0.28     1.28       20       22      210    60°5
B-14 Vunteks Trikotaza     knitwear                   8/81          0.19      0.3     29.3    31.3        11   27300
B-15 Pobjeda Mach. Gorazde                            8/81                   1.59       15       17       81    19630
B-16 Unis Bicycle Plant    bicycle parts              8/81          0.16     0.22       14       16       40      5500
8-17 Unis Bicycle Thuinis  bicycle parts              8/81          0.51     0.78       13       15
B-18 Sirovine Promt        briqLmttes                 S/81          0.57     1.42       15       16       21    67619
8-19 UTI Roteks Rogatici   wool bt nk*tY              8/81          0.51     1.42     32.2       33       25    5600
B-20 Unis Tvormica Zice    steet ropes                9/81          1.65    14.16       14       16       140   101143
8-21 Siped Sebesic         wood products     LI        1/82         0.63     3.34       14       15       130    25646
0-22 Borie Kidric Bestit.  briquettes                 3/82          0.19     0.43       17       19       -15
B-23 ELestik Riubber Sas undertwer           Li       3/82          0.45     1.68     21.4     23.2       185     9081
8-24 Sipad Va*lz           plywood           LI        4/82         0.45     2.18       26       27        83    26265
B-25 Prtrada Orveta Stakor.wood panls        LI        7/82         0.98     6.15       20       22       259    23745
B-26 UTI Vitex Fabrika     blankets                    12/82        0.13     0.39       14        16
8-27 Garments Atms Visag. gar_nts            LI        3/83         0.19     1.04       15        18      60    17333
8-28 Novitet Sosaka        undarwear         LI        3/83         0.21      0.3       39       41        20    15000
B-29 RD Ukrins Derventa    garmmnts          LI        2/84         0.13      0.2       46       49       1B5     1905
8-30 Ind. Carate Trikot.  gerants            Li                     0.37     3.46     21.5       25       250    13840
B-31 RO Vitex Knitted      knit fabrics                             0.07
8-32 Rudnici Boksita       bauxite                                  0.33
8-33 Unle Pretis Vogoace                                            0.69
8-34 Stocking Plant Foca   stockings                                0.44
8-35 TeruopraradM                                                   0.27
9-36 Undermoar Plant NovSoe&rdwer                                    0.2
0-37 Textiles  ne U iha                                             0.29
VItiF/Average  --                           -         ~~~~~~          ~~~~135 -   -3479    3879
I/ Exncp; for the San  subloan, other sLkproject details are ex-onteo  as awrised.
Li a labor-inteive; JV a joint venture.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 4
PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1911-YU (IST) 1/
Subproject                   Industry             Type   Date of  Bank       Total        FRR       ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identification               Branch                       Approval Subloan  Project       CX)       tX)   Created  Worker
and Name                                                            (USS m.)Cost                                      (USS)
CUSS mn.)
A-1 Titex                    garments           LI        11/82         3.99      12.3      12.5     15.2                8200
A-2 Boketjka Kotor           rubber products              5/83          2.98    14.77         27     32.2       201    57000
a-1 Obod Genex Cetinje       adhesive labels   LI         10/81         0.75      1.18        16       22        69    17101
8-2 Zel. Boris Kidric        service apparel   LI         12/82         0.31      1.72      18.5       27       233      7382
B-3 Celloloza Ivangrad       paper products               4/82          1.58      2.64      14.2     15.1        93    28387'
B-4 Jedinstvo Bijelo Polie garments             LI        4/82          0.38      2.18      15.5     16.9       130    16755
B-5 Rivijera Kotor           soap,cosmetics               10/82         1.14      4.28      16.1     17.3        85    50352
B-6 Bjelasica Bij. Polje   cosmetics                      10/82         0.92       3.2      14.7     15.3        81    39506
9-7 Liveni Lazaievi          cast bearings      LI        1/83          1.81      2.23        18        15       85    26235
B-8 Potrlica                 coal                         5/83          1.68       2.2        30       25        11
B-9 Borovica                 coal               LI        1/84          1.99                  28       30       185      7027
B-10 Metalac Gorenje         electrodes                   6/83          0.43        10                          186    53763
9-11 Kosuta Cetinje          footwear           LI        1/84          0.45      1.65      18.2     20.1       200      8250
B-12 Pilana Rozaje           sawmill prod.      LI        2/84          0.45      0.87      17.8     19.6       174      5000
B-13 Velimir Jakic                                                      0.22
B-14 Polimje                                                            0.11
B-15
B-16 Graficka Ojelenost    printing             LI        1/85           0.4      0.59                          163      3620
Total/Average                                                                 57.2                         1896    30169
1/ Except for the Bank subloans, the other subproject details are ex-ante, as appraised.
LI   labor-intensive; JV a joint venture.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 4
PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 1912-YU (SBS) 1/
Subproject                   Industry             Type   Date sf  Benk       Total        FRR       ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identification              Branch                        Approval Subloan  Project       (M)       (X)   Created  Worker
and Name                                                            (USS mrn.)Cost                                    (US$)
(USS mn.)
A-1 Zastava Herol Toza       auto components              1/82             2      7.47      19.8     21.5       146    51188
B-1 Titex Titovo             wool yarn          Li        1I/Si         0.99      1.54        28                 94    16382
B-2 Karpos Kriva Palanks   garments             LI        2/82          0.49      0.65        21                 48    13542
8-3 Elektromontaoz           steel struct.                              1.96      7.27        24
B-4 Radika Debar             gypsum                       8/81          1.29      7.68        20
B-5 Crvena Zvezda            fireres. prod.               5/82          0.31      1.65        14                 31    53225
B-6 Bitoleteks               textiLes                     1/82          0.16      2.17        22                 21   103333
B-7 Sopiracka Opreme         brake equip.                                  1       5.2        20                110    47272
B-8 Zavod Tito               mach. tools                  10/82             1     6.41      24.3     23.1       135    47481
:-9 Makedonke Stip           garments           LI                      0.74      1.75      19.3     24.4       316      5950
TotaL/Average                                                              41.79                           901    46381
1/ Except for the Bank subtoans, other subproject details are ex-ante, as appraised.
LI L tabor-intensive; JV a joint venture.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
PART Ill OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2132-Yu (PBS) 1/
Subproject                  Industry            Type   Date of  Bank      Total        FRR      ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identificstion             8ranch/                     Aporoval Sublomn  Project       MX)       MX)   Created  Worker
and Nime                    Product                              (USS mn.)Cost                                    (USS)
(USS mn.)
A-1 RO Vezioniks Zvornik  eabroidery          EO,LI,JV 5/B3          4.48      7.22       28       31      468    t5427
A-2 Seltf Adhesive Tapes    adlhesive tapes    EO       6/83          4.1     9.78        20       26        90   108666
A-3 Unis Bearirgs SokLac   bearings           EO        3/84            S        27     16.5       17       316    85443
A-4a Veneer Furn. Bosno    furniture          EO,LI    8/84          0.36      1.56       30       42       400     2784
A-4b Furniture lorik Naglej furniture         EO,LI    2/85          0.71      2.45       20       21        31    79032
A-4c Furn. Standard Sarsjev   furniture       EO,LI    2/85          0.88      2.13       25       28        92    23152
A-4d Upholstered Furn.      furniture         EO        2/85            0      0.83       39       46        14    59285
A-4e Kitchen Furn. NfI staj furniture         EO        2/85         0.56      3.47       23       27        97    35773
A-4f Period Furn. Stfl      furniture          EO,LI    2/85         0.68      2.22       19       22       102    21764
A-49 Bedroom Furn. 8Osna   furniture          EO,LI    2/85             0      2.53       21        28      129    19632
A-4h Furn. Jadrins Gracon. furniture           EO       2/85         0.51      2.36       24        26       46    51321
A-4i Chairs Siped Buzim    furniture           EO,LI    2/85         0.82      3.82       14        14      193    19772
A-4j Chairs Krivaja Zav.   furniture           eo       2/85         0.49      0.51     21.3     23.2
A-4k Furn. 25 September    furniture          EO        2/85         0.05       0.2       50       50
A-4l Furn. 29 NovAer        furniture         EO        2/85            0      1.42     19.6       26
A-4m Plastic Cov. Furn.    furniture           EO       2/85            0      1.32       20       26
A-4n Samnill Sipad GClioc  furniture           EO       2/85         0.97      8.13       Is       24       353    23031
3-1 Footwear Odzak          footwear          EO,LI    5/83          0.72      4.09     15.5        17      590     6932
9-2 Spinnfrq MItI Ukrina   textiles           EOJV    5/83          1.77      7.02     14.5     17.2       140    50142
9.3 Footwear cervvnt*       *ootwe;r           CO       12/83         0.6      0.92       44       48        30    30667
9-4 Unis Prozo Brake System  brakes, drives  EO,LI    12/83          0.61    12.28        18        16      540    22740
9-5 Hardwood Furn. Zee   furniture             EO,LI    3/84          0.4      2.92       19        25      275    10618
8-6 Garmnts Sorak Travnik garmnts              EO,LI    3/84         0.92      4.13       28        29      348    11868
9-7 Industriju ALata        drill tools        EO       3/84         0.43      3.28       19        21       72    45556
B-8 Energoinvest BujIcica  spark pLugs         EO,LI    5/84         0.97      4.52       35        39      221    20432
0-9 GorenJe lihas           refrigerators     EO        12/84         0.7    25.23      19.8     25.2      1051    24005
9-10 Teol Plant TrebinJe   tooLs               EO       5/84          0.4      1.91       23     23.5        55    34727
8-11 Metal Saw Plant        metal "sw          EO       5/84         0.25      0.56       24        22       14    40000
8-12 Garunte Pionir        gearnts             EO,LI    5/84          1.07     2.76       21        20      318     8679
B-13 Carpets Plant BiLecank   carpets          EO       6/84         0.95      2.98       23        25       30    99333
B-14 Garments Plant Sw      gormnts            EO,LI    10/84         1.08     3.54       33        29      460     7696
9-15 Unis Spoke & Nipples bicycle parts        EO       6/84             1     1.67     26.5        20       53    31509
8-16 Blankets Plant Vitex  blMakets            EO       9/84         0.98      1.33       33        36
E-17 Footwear Oerventa      footwear           EO,LI    5/85             0     0.77       50        50      350     2200
Total/Aver"e                                                            156.86                        6878    2286
1/ Except for the Bank subloans  other aubproject details are ex-ante, as appralsed.
EO * export-oriented; Li * labor-intensive; JV a joint venture.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SIXTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2133-YU (SBS) 1/
Subproject                  Industry             Type   Date of  Bank      Total       FRR       ERR   Jobs     Cost Per
Identification             Branch/                      Approval Subloan  Project      CX)      (X)   Created  Worker
!        and Name                    Product                               (USS mn.)C st                                    (USS)
(U S mn.)
... ......-....................... ....  --------  ----  --    -   --.-.              ..... ..         - ....
A-1 Kontaktori Rade Koncar elec. contactors  EO,JV    2/83             4.2    19.52      23.8       24      330    59151
A-2 Knitting, finishing    fabrics             EO       2/83          2.95      4.7      21.2     18.8       257    18258
A-3 Krzno Resen Fur Plant  fur products        EO,JV    1/83          3.27     8.16        28     23.2       233    35000
A-4 Dolomite Plant          dolom. bricks      EO,JV    3/84          3.01    16.79        21       20       196    85686
A-5 Knitting Strybaza       knit fabrics       EO,LI    9/84          0.54     1.45        29     20.5       134    10820,
B-1 Rud. Zelez. Skopje                                  2/83           0.3
B-2 Silpen Sileks           plastic zippers   EO        9/83          1.93      2.9        48     44.8        92    31521
B-3 Rik Sileks Krajovo      stone products    EO        2/84          0.33     0.64      25.8       32
B-4 Dakor Dec. Fabrika      decor. fabrics    EO        2/84          1.64     2.68        36                 63    42450
B-5 Machine Tools Plant    mach. tools         EO       5/84          1.99     3.18        37                 38    78500
8-6 Garments Gastivar       garments           EO,LI,JV 5/84          0.39     1.89        38                350     5400
B-7 Garments Plant Tetovo  garments            EO,LI,JV 9/84          1.79     4.41      36.5                638     6912
B-8 Mediciska Plastike      medical equip.    EO        9/84           0.6     3.47      28.8                237    14641
B-9 RO Dragovic Ohrid       auto mirrors       EO       12/84          0.8     1.85        27                 84    22033
8-10 Tehno-Tekst Stip       text. mach. parts EO,LI    1/85           0.36     0.43                           36    11944
B-11 Makedonski Folklor    yarn                EO       1/85          0.83     1.28        34                 23    55652
B-12 Makedonija Sport       garments           EO,LI    1/85           0.2     0.26                          115     2261
B-13 Makedonska Konfekcije garments            EO,JV    7/6v          1.67      7.1        49                230    30869
S-14 Terry Cloth Frotirka  fabrics             EO       3/85          0.25     0.44        41                 12    36637
B-16 EMO Ohrid Elec. Mach. components          EO,LI    10/85         1.12     3.51      32.3     26.5       301    11661
B-17 RO Bratsvo Ohrid       cutlery            EO,LI    1/86          0.71     0.55        48                 53    10377
9-18 Ohis Plostike Skopje  moulded parts       EO,JV    4/86             2     4.55      31.3     19.2        15   303333
B-19 Struzanska Text. Plant  ffi. yarn         EO       9/86           0.5     0.78        32       22        22    35455
Total/Average                                                            94.84                        3539    26867
.... ...... ................... .... ...... .................................... ..
1/ Except for the Bank oubloans, other subproject details are ex-ante, as appraised.
EQ O   export-oriented; LI = labor-intesive; JV a joint venture.



- 61 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2339-YU (KBP) 1/
Subproject                  Industry             Type   Date of  Bank       Total       FRR       ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identification              Branch/                     Approval Subloan  Project       CX)       C%)   Created  Worker
and Name                    Product                               (USS mn.)Cost                                     CUSS)
(USS mfn.)
A-1 Kosovska Cotton Yarn   yarn                 LI,JV    10/84         0.46      8.9      22.8      28.3     1566
A-2 Taftison Yarn           yarn                EO       11/84         7.07    12.42      18.1      29.6      220    56454
A-3 Zinc Sheet Vucitern    zinc sheets          LI       12/84         1.31    17.88      22.6      25.1      691    25875
A-4 Emin Duraku             artif. Leather    EO         3/85          4.71    11.69      22.7      28.6      208    56000
A-5 Footwear PLant Peje    footwear             LI       4/85           2.5      9.46     25.8      31.3      892    10605
A-6 Furn. Plant Ferizaj    furniture                     12/85         4.68
A-7 Progres Prizren         poly. filament    LI         12/85          3.5      8.32       21        12      310    26800
A-8 Elektro. Gjakove        elec. motors        LI,EO,JV 12/85         5.67      5.51       25        27      210    26000
A-9 Jugoterm                 radiators          LI,JV    2/86           2.8      6.59     25.3      26.2      271    10332
A-10 Nitex                   textiles
B-1 Gierovica Furn. Plant  furniture            EO,JV    3/85          1.18    12.44      20.4                360    34556
B-2 Metalac Janjevo         conmpnents          EO,JV    5/85          1.21      2.63     23.6                 70    37571
8-3 Plastika Panels         fireproof paneLs  EO,JV    12/85           1.09      2.79       22      25.3       85    32823
B-4 Polet Clothing Plant   garments             LI       11/85         0.41         1     29.2                300      3333
B-5 MetaLac Mine Equip.    mininig equip.                3/86          0.89
B-6 Peje Tannery             leather products  EO        1/87          0.92      7.11     26.2                 90    79000
9-7 Peje Timrber Combine    furniture           EO,LI,JV 7/86          0.95    10.66      25.7                497    21430
Total/Average                                                             117.4                         5770    20347
1/ Except for the Bank subloans, other subproject details are ex-ante, as appralbed.
EO = export-oriented; LI = labor-intensive; JV = joint venture.



PART III OF PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
......................................
YUGOSLAVIA
SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT
DETAILS OF SUBPROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2340-YU (IST) 1/
Subproject                  Industry              Type   Date of  Bank      Totat        FRR      ERR   Jobs      Cost Per
Identification              Branch/                      Approval SubLoan  Project       CX)      CX)   Created  Worker
and Name                    Pr etdudt                              CUSS mn.)Cost                                    (USS)
(USS mnv.)
A;' riAtu;oG& :vbnXsw       Ab,kf Ptrouctso   BO         6/84          3.68      8.5      28.3      32.9
C-2 ol:d S       n Fx;5tcr X5g bai "lry',   .     , ,IV    1/85         4.1         9       26      36.8      200    45000
A-3 Potrlica Pl¢vtje        C3at               EO,'V    1/A5           4.79     6.72       116        69       50   134500
A-4 kQO) P4ant Bilft6  POl. Wj  t  yarn        £o,JV    i2/8S          3.9'o    5.13        18        25
B-1 Greficka Djetanost      printine           Li        10/84
8-2 Lenke Ufislc F4lJ      f00ctver            LI       ZJ/8                    1.0S     24.5      29.6       84    12500
8-3 ritfm                   tc(tee                                     0.01
8-4 Cet uto?e  Ivengred     Pr:r pr.tc    f.)                          0.5.3
4-S tivjlora Ktot           tww"TIC5            EC                      0.1
8-6 Liven1 Lzaejevi                                                      1"
:-7 Kosuta Cetinie                                                     S a6
a - Gral1ka DJe1a7ot        printing                                   t. 1
6-? bo  2takttowtorl        elec. moSS          Ft.' r I /1ei          il. '7     1.2     43.5      61.4
d-10 Pot i*k  ibthr          lenther                     I 1...4       1.t        -16        22       23        66    28030
6.11 Kartooza Cetinje       paper products    SJS    idiss              C.b      0,5        47        52
8-12 Febrike Est~Etra    air to  ttfPgrs   Q(.X.A,JV I1Vi OA6                    '2.F6    38.6      42.1       346     6532
9-13 Tit"ej                  gurvz^Cp           4.~i a'                  2        Y.6      20.7       23       483    16086
B-16 Kcnfokclja Tars Plevi;        r                                   e. Is.    -81        21       25        17    47657
8-17 KoSute Cttitleo         footwear                     1/4I7         0,Zv      M.       42.3     38.7       254     8149
Yetkali Asrate                                                              44.8                         1500    31200
i/            tIj;p4tk 8&'iM t "toansv  other subproject details ;w- *x oae. ws apprarfsed.
CO L                   Li a lor1intensfve; JV a joint venture.



- 63 -
ANWX S
Page 1 of 12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
FIFTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDITS
(Loans 1909/1910/191 1/1912-YU, 2132/2133-YU and 2339/2340-YU)
Comparison of Adjusted and Non-adiusted Financial Statements''
Kosovska Banka Pristina Udruzena Banka (KBP)
Income Statement 1 187 as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Interest collected                                       66.7
Revaluation interest                                    250.7
Collected                                      0.0
Capitalized                                  250.7
Uncollected                                    0.0
Interest paid                                           167.5
Other income                                             10.7
Provision                                                96.3
Operating expenses                                       10.2
Foreign exchange losses                                  -3.0
Current losses                                -4.3
Deferred                                       1.3
Other revaluation                                         9.1
Staiutory obligations & taxes                             0.6
Net income                                               65.6
Source: SDK reports and commercial banks.
KBP - Adjustment of Net Income for 1987
Based on the Mission's Assumption
on Collectibility of Revaluation Interest
Net income per SDK                                       65.6
Adjusted net income before provision (a)                 57.8
Required provision for (b):
Capitalized                                   25.1
Uncollected                                    0.0
Adjusted net income                                      32.7
Ratios:
Unadjusted net income/average total assets                4.2%
Adjusted net income/average total assets                  2.1%
At Extracted from the Bank Report entitled Yugoslavia: Financial Sector Restructuring - Policies and Pnoritis
(Report No. 7869-YU of November 30, 1989).



- 64 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 12
KBP - Net equity under different assumptions
as to the ratio of provisions to loans
1987
(Dinar Billion)
10%                                   (145)
12%                                   (179)
14%                                   (213)
16%                                   (248)
18%                                   (282)
20%                                   (316)
Source: Mission estimates.
KBP - Balance Sheet
as per SDK audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                  1985           4986           1 7
Cash Due From Banks and Securities        36             21             60
Deposits with NBY                         48            109            343
ST Loans                                  98            210            410
LT Loans and Investments                 347            534           1391
LESS: Provision                    0              0             96
Net Loans                 445           744            1705
Fixed Assets                               4              7             18
Other Assets                              65             65             20
Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses          19             16             15
Total Assets                     617            963           2161
Liabilities
Local Deposits                            99            107            172
Foreign Deposits                          52            112            354
ST Borrowings                             36             81            174
LT Borrowings                            348            557           1309
Other Liabilities                         76             93             88
Total Liabilities                611            949           2096
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund                4             0              25
Other Funds                                2              6             40
Net Worth                          6             14             66
Total Liab. and Funds            617            963           2161



- 65 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 12
KBP - Adjusted Balance Sheet
for Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses
and 50% Collectibility of Problem Loans in 1987
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                1985           1986          1987
Cash Due From Banks and Securities      36            21            60
Deposits with NBY                       48           109           343
ST Loans                                98           210           410
LT Loans and Investments               347           534          1391
LESS: Provision                   0            0           598
Net Loans                445           744          1203
Fixed Assets                             4             7            18
Other Assets                            65            65            20
Total Assets                  598           947          1644
Liabilities
Local Deposits                          99           107           172
Foreign Deposits                        52           112           35$
ST Borrowines                           36            81            174
LT Borrowings                          348           557          1309
Other Liabilities                       76            93            88
Total Liabilities             611           949          2096
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund              4             9            25
Other Funds                             -17          -11           -477
Net Worth                     -13            -2          -452
Total Liab. and Funds         598           947          1644



- 66 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 12
Privredna Banka Saraievo Udruzena Banka (PBS)
Income Statement 1987 as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Interest collected                                       184.0
Revaluation interest                                    631.9
Collected                                     ;184.7
Capitalized                                    29.2
Uncollected                                   218.0
Interest paid                                           480.3
Other income                                             40.1
Provision                                                101.6
Operating expenses                                       58.3
Foreign exchange losses                                  64.6
Current losses                                 51.0
Deferred                                       13.6
Other revaluation                                        40.1
Statutory obligation & taxes                               5.1
Net income                                               186.2
Source: SDK reports and commercial banks.
PBS - Adjustment of Net Income for 1987
Based on the Mission's Assumption
on Collectibility of Revaluation Interest
Net income per SDK                                      186.2
Adjusted net income before provision (a)                 159.7
Required provision for (b):
Capitalized                                     5.8
Uncollected                                   109.0
Adjusted net income                                       44.9
Ratios:
Unadjusted net income/average total assets                4.7%
Adjusted net income/average total assets                   1.1%
. .   .     _~~~- -- - - - -     - -- - - - - .      . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. . .



- 67 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 12
PBS - Net equity under different assumptions
as to the ratio of provisions to loans
1987
(Dinar Billion)
10%                                   (164)
12%                                   (229)
14%                                   (293)
16%                                   (357)
18%                                   (422)
20%                                   (486)
Source: Mission estimates
.~~~~~~~~~.. ..  ....... . ......... . . ..... __ ... ~. .. ... .... .. .... . .
PBS - Balance Sheet
as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                1985         1986
Cash Due From Banks and Securities      119          171           330
Deposits With NBY                      243           485           1648
ST Loans                               264           428           985
LT Loans and investments               614          1067          2329
LESS: Provision                  17            18            56
Net Loans                861          1477          3258
Fixed Assets                             14           31            62
Other Assets                            96           141           274
Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses        31            20              7
Total Assets                   1363         2325           5578
Liabilities
Local Deposits                         368           642           1135
Foreign Deposits                       287           537           1732
ST Borrowings                           138          213            378
LT Borrowings                          466           808          2027
Other Liabilities                       83            81            50
Total Liabilities              1341         2280           5322
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund             16            32            92
Other Funds                              7             13          165
Net Worth                        22           45            256
Total Liab. and Funds          1363         2325           5578



- 68 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 12
PBS - Adjusted Balance Sheet
for Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses
and 50% Collectibility of Problem Loans in 1987
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                 1985          1986          1987
Cash Due From Banks and Securities       119           171           330
Deposits with NBY                        243           485          1648
ST Loans                                 264           428           985
LT Loans and investments                 614          1067          2329
LESS: Provision                 17            18           843
Net Loans               861          1477          2471
Fixed Assets                              14            31            62
Other Assets                              96           141           274
Total Assets                  1332          2305          4785
Liabilities
Local Deposits                           368           642          1135
Foreign Deposits                         287           537          1732
ST Borrowings                            138           213           378
LT Borrowings                            466           808          2027
Other Liabilities                         83            81            50
Total Liabilities             1341          2280          5322
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund               16            32            92
Other Funds                              -24            -8          -629
Net Worth                       -9            24           -538
Total Liab. and Funds         1332          2304          4785



- 69 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 12
Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka (IBT)
Income Statement 1987 as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Interest collected                                          20.1
Revaluation interest                                       123.0
Collected                                            7.5
Capitalized                                        115.5
Uncollected                                          0.0
Interest paid                                               92.7
Other income                                                 9.8
Provision                                                   47.2
Operating expenses                                           15.9
Foreign exchange losses                                      8.1
Current losses                                       5.0
Deferred                                             3.1
Other revaluation                                            22.2
Statutory obligation & taxes                                  1.2
Net income                                                   10.0
Source: SDK reports and commercial banks
IBT - Adjustment of Net Income for 1987
Based on the Mission's Assumption
on Collectibility of Revaluation Interest
Net income per SDK                                           10.0
Adjusted net income before provision (a)                     -9.1
Required provision for (b):
Capitalized                                         11.5
Uncollected                                          0.0
Adjusted net income                                         -20.7
Ratios:
Unadjusted net income/average total assets                    1.0%/0
Adjusted net income/average total assets                     -2.1%



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 12
IBT - Net equity under different assumptions
as to the ratio of provisions to loans
1987
(Dinar Billion)
10%                                        (99)
12%                                       (121)
14%                                       (143)
16%                                       (164)
18%                                       (186)
20%                                       (207)
Source: Mission estimates.
~~~~~        .    __ .     .   ...... .. . .................................... _.   _ _
IBT - Balance Sheet
as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                                                j.z1985
Cash Due From Banks and Securities        21             45             66
Deposits With NBY                         18             34             96
ST Loans                                  72            122            169
LT Loans and Investments                 265            384            919
LESS: Provision                    0              0              0
Net Loans                  337           506           1088
Fixed Assets                               2              5              8
Other Assets                              34             54             69
Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses           3              3             18
Total Assets                     416            647           1345
Liabilities
Local Deposits                            92            164            199
Foreign Deposits                          20             35             92
ST Borrowings                             30             49             64
LT Borrowings                            241            339            889
Other Liabilhties                         26             50             63
Total Liabilities                408            636           1308
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund                3              6             11
Other Funds                                5              5             27
Net Worth                          7             11             38
Total Liab. and Funds            416            647           1345



-71-
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 12
IBT - Adjusted Balance Sheet
for Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses
and 50% Collectibility of Problem Loans in ,87
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                   1985          1986            1987
Cash Due From Banks and Securities        21             45              66
Deposits With NBY                          18            34              96
ST Loans                                   72           122             169
LT Loans and Investments                  265           384             919
LESS: Provision                     0             0             250
Net Loans                  v37            506            838
Fixed Assets                                2             5               8
Other Assets                               34            54              69
Total Assets                      413           644            1077
Liabilities
Local Deposits                             92           164             199
Foreign Deposits                           20            35              92
ST Borrowings                              30            49              64
LT Borrowings                             241           339             889
Other Liabilities                          26            50              63
Total Liabilities                 408           636            1308
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund                 3             6              11
Other Funds                                 2             2            -242
Net Worth                           5             8            -231
Total Liab. and Funds             413           644            1077
-   --  -    -  -- - - -   - -    --- ---   -- - - -- - - - -- - - - -- - - -   -- -- -   -  --  -  --    -     -- -- -   - -     ---  -. . -    _-_-__



- 72 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 12
Stopanska Banka Skopie Udruzena Banka (SBS)
Income Statement 1987 as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Interest collected                                         106.4
Revaluation Interest                                       491.0
Collected                                          18.6
Capitalized                                         4.5
Uncollected                                       467.9
Interest paid                                              340.8
Other income                                                16.1
Provision                                                   68.7
Operating expenses                                          28.0
Foreign exchange losses                                     37.5
Current losses                                     28.2
Deferred                                            9.3
Other revaluation                                          -19.1
Statutory obligation & taxes                                 3.2
Net Income                                                 116.2
Source: SDK reports and commercial banks.
SBS - Adjustment of Net Income for 1987
Based on the Mission's Assumption
on Collectibility of Revaluation Interest
Net income per SDK                                         116.2
Adjusted net income before provision (a)                   144.6
Required provision for (b):
Capitalized                                         0.4
Uncollected                                       234.0
Adjusted net income                                        -89.8
Ratios:
Unadjusted net income/average total assets                   5.4%
Adjusted net income/average total assets                    -4.2%



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 11 of 12
SBS - Net equity under different assumptions
as to the ratio of provisions to loans
1987
(Dinar Billion)
10%                                       (106)
12%                                       (145)
14%                                       (184)
16%                                       (223)
18%                                       (262)
20%                                       (302)
Source: Mission estimates.
SBS - Balance Sheet
as per SDK Audit Report
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                1985          1986          1987
Cash, Due From Banks and Securities     40            56           183
Deposits With NBY                      145           258           831
ST Loans                               183           285           836
LT Loans and Investments               388           578          1178
LESS: Provision                  14           18            63
Net Loans                557          845          V97W
Fixed Assets                             6            15            29
Other Assets                            25            55            53
Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses        14            24            10
Total Assets                   786          1254          3076
Liabilities
Local Deposits                         197           331           683
Foreign Deposits                       170           266           844
ST Borrowings                           81           116           250
LT Borrowings                          301           468          1108
Other Liabilities                       23            50            47
Total Liabilities              772          1231          2932
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund              8            15            44
Other Funds                              6             8           100
Net Worth                       14            24            144
Total Liab. and Funds           786          1254         3076



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 12 of 12
SBS - Adjusted Balance Sheet
for Deferred Foreign Exchange Losses
and 50% CollectibiMty of Problem Loans in 1987
(Dinar Billion)
Assets                                 1985           1986          1987
Cash Due From Banks and Securities       40             56           183
Deposits with NBY                       145            258           831
ST Loans                                183            285           856
LT Loans and Investments                388            578          1178
LESS: Provision                  14             18           780
Net Loans                557            845          1253
Fixed Assets                              6             15            29
Other Assets                             25             55            53
Total Assets                    773           1230          2349
Liabilities
Local Deposits                          197            331           683
Foreign Deposits                        170            266           844
ST Borrowings                            81            116           250
LT Borrowings                           301            468          1108
Other Liabilities                        23             50            47
Total Liab. and Funds           772           1231          2932
Funds
Property and Equipment Fund               8             15            44
Other Funds                              -7            -16          -627
Net Worth                         0              0          -583
Total Liab. and Funds           773           1230          2349



