Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4301-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ON A
SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
May 23, 1983
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT 1/
'a                         Currency Unit = Yugoslav Dinar (Din)
December 31, 1982
US$1.00 2/                     =  Din 62.4865
Din 1.00                       =  $ 0.016
Din 1,000                      =  $ 16.00
Din 1,000,000                  =  $ 16,000.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL   - Basic Organization of Associated Labor
CIFER  - Community of Interest for Foreign Economic Relations
DFC    - Development Finance Company
ERR    - Economic Rate of Return
FRR    - Financial Rate of Return
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
GMP    - Gross Material Product
IBT    - Investiciona Banka Titograd
IC     - Industrial Credit
IGB    - international Competitive Bidding
JLF    - Joint Liability Fund
KBP    - Kosovska Banka Pristina
KRDP   - Kosovo Regional Development Project
LDR    - Less Developed Regions
MIDR    - More Developed Regions
PBS    - Privredna Banka Sarajevo
RF     - Reserve Fund
SBS    - Stopanska Banka Skopje
SDK    - Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or Social Accounting Service
YBIEC  - Yugoslav Bank for International Economic Cooperation
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   The Yugoslav Dinar has noi been maintained within announced margins since
July 12, 1973.  Its parity is reviewed frequently to ensure maintenance
of external competitiveness.
2/   Throughout cais report $ refers to US$.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT ON
A SEVENTH INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    INTRODUCTION ...........................................         1
II.    THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR ..................................    2
A.  Industry, Structure, Past Policies and Performance..    2
B.  Industrial Development Issues and Objectives   ..    3
C. Regional Development and Industry in Kosovo and
Montenegro                 .       .......      ......  7
III.    THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .... ..........................            10
A.  The Structure of the Financial Sector          . .          10
B.  Resource Mobilization and Allocation           .    .      12
IV.  THE BORROWING BANKS                      .       ... 14
A.  Institutional Aspects       ....       .......... ......   14
B.  Operations ...........................................  18
C.  The Banks' Financial Situation .................... .      19
D. Performance by Banks under the Previous
Industrial Credit Projects ........................     24
E. Forecast of the Banks' Operations and Financial
Performance ......... .....                 . ..... .  26
V.    THE PROJECT .. .............. .                      .......... .   27
A.  Objectives ..........................................  27
B. Use of Loan Proceeds                   ..                   30
C. Main Features of the Loan                 ..    30
VI.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS               .     .     .      34
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. Zafar Shah Khan, Frangois Laporte, Anil Gore and Hurbert Huehne
(Consultant) which visited Yugoslavia in October/November 1982.
This document has a rmtricted distribution and may be used by rocipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.2



- ii~ -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Institutional Structure of the Borrowing Banks
Annex 2    Terms of Reference of Development Banking Advisor to KBP
Annex 3    Balance Sheets as of Years Ended 1979-1981
Annex 4    Statements of Income and Expenses 1979-1981
Annex 5    Projected Income Statements 1982-1985
Annex 6    Statement of Projected Sources and Applications of Funds: 1982-1985
Annex 7    Projected Balance Sheets as of Years Ending 1982-1985
Annex 8    Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 9    Terms of Reference of Study for Identification of Export-oriented
Sub-sectors and Projects
Annex 10   Terms of Reference of Study for Identification of Labor-intensive
Sub-sectors and Projects
Annex 11   Pro jected Disbursement Schedules
Annex 12   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Yugoslavia is a federation of six republics and two autonomous pro-
vinces presenting wide disparities in levels of economic and social develop-
ment. Bank lending, and particularly lending for industrial development, has
been concentrated on the less developed regions (LDR), which include the repu-
blics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia and Montenegro and the Autonomous Pro-
vince of Kosovo.  Among the LDR, development differences are also large, with
Kosovo and Montenegro having less advanced manufacturing sectors.
1.02     Over the past three decades, Yugoslavia developed a unique system for
economic and political decisionr-making based on workers' self-management 1/.
After 1965, decision-making became increasingly decentralized to the regions,
the communes, enterprises and self-managed organizations with a concurrent
reduction of the role of central planning and control of the Federal Govern-
ment. Planning evolved into an indicative mechanism and allocation of invest-
ment funds became the responsibility of the banking sector. The new consti-
tution of 1974 responded to the need to improve macro-economic coordination by
extending workers' self-management to the formulation of all aspects of na-
tional economic policy, including planning. A further reform in 1978 reorga-
nized the banking sector and placed the banks under the control and management
of the enterprises.
1.03     Since 1970, the Bank has lent about $2.2 billion to Yugoslavia of
which, since 1973, six industrial credits accounted for 17 percent. IFC has
been engaged in 19 projects for a total IFC's gross investment of $327 million.
The Bank Group's activities in the industrial sector have been aimed primarily
at i) providing foreign currency resources for general industrial development
and contributing to the development of efficient enterprises; ii) supporting
rapid development and employment creation in the LDR, particularly by encoura-
ging labor intensive projects; iii) promoting greater inter-regional coopera-
tion and coordination through joint-ventures between enterprises in the LDR
and the MDR; iv) helping access to external commercial sources of finance for
Yugoslav enterprises by encouraging co-financing; and v) contributing to ra-
tional allocation of investment resources and institution-building of partici-
pating banks in the industrial sector.
1.04     The Bank's first five industrial credits (IC) to Yugoslavia were
channeled simultaneously through individual banks in each of the four LDR and
were very similar in concept.  Based on studies undertaken under the fifth
industrial credit project and the Bank's own sector work (see footnote 1 on
page 3), Bank industrial lending objectives will address more specifically the
priorities of industrial development for the country and each of the LDR and
will give greater attention to the specific institutional needs and capabili-
ties of individual banks.  The Sixth Industrial Credit Project (approved in
FY82) has been earmarked primarily for export-oriented industries in Bosnia-
Herzegovina, through Privredna Banka Sarajevo (PBS), and in Macedonia, through
Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS).  It also included a pilot component and studies
to support the Government policies for energy savings and increased use of
domestic energy resources in industry. The proposed project will aim mainly
to assist labor intensive industries and, to the extent possible, export-
1/  See Yugoslavia.  Self-Management Socialism and the Challenges of Develop-
ment, IBRD, Report No. 1615a-YU, 1978 and Yugoslavia; The Economic Deve-
lopment of Yugoslavia, IBRD, Report No. 194a-YU, 1973.



- 2 -
oriented industries, in Kosovo, through Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
(KBP), and in Montenegro, through Investiciona Banka Titograd Udruzena Banka
(IBT). It will also include two components of technical assistance for (i)
strengthening the capacity of the two banks for project identification in
priority areas and, (ii) institution-building in the borrowing banks.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Industry, Structure, Past Policies and Performance I/
2.01     Structure.  The industrial sector of Yugoslavia has been the leading
sector of the country's economic growth since the early 1950's and plays a
central role in its foreign trade. In 1980, industry 2/ accounted for over
36 percent of Yugoslavia's GMP 3/ (27 percent in 1960), employed one fifth of
the total labor force (13 percent in 1960) and accounted for 95 percent of
merchandise exports (75 percent in 1960).  The industrial structure is quite
diversified with a number of basic industries based on the country's sizeable
natural resources and a well-developed manufacturing sector which produces a
wide range of capital, intermediate and consumer goods.  Large, and generally
capital intensive enterprises are predominant, particularly in the less deve-
loped regions (LDR) (enterprises with more than 1)000 workers account for over
60 percent of industrial value added).  Industry has absorbed a substantial
proportion of the country's investment, rising from 28 percent of gross fixed
capital formation in 1960 to 35 percent in 1980 (or 8 percent and 10 percent
of GMP, respectively). Yugoslavia became an important exporter of industrial
goods in the 1950s.  Although the share of exports in total industrial output
declined somewhat in the 1970s, it still represented more than 9 percent by
1980.  The bulk of industrial exports is generated by the MDR, although Bosnia-
Herzegovina and Macedonia in LDR are also making some contributions.
2.02     Past Policies a4d Performance.  The centrally planned industrializa-
tion was initially geared to the creation of capital goods and basic indus-
tries and the bulk of tbe country's resources for investment was channeled
through the Federal budget. Gradually, alQng with management decentralization
and the greater vole given tq marKet forces, industrial strategy included the
development of light industries. Although industrial output and export growth
through 1965 was particularly rapid at above 10 percent a year, the mix of
central planning and controlr and market forces led to inefficient and under-
utilized industrial capacities and uncoordinated industrial development among
regons-, Af-ter the reforms of 1965, which aimed at reducing central control
and strengthening the role of the market by unifying the exchange rate, abo-
lishing export incentives, lowering substantially import protection and redu-
cing price distortions, growth of the industrial sector slowed down (5.4 per-
cent during 1966-70). The growth of industrial exports also diminished in
this period and industrial growth became increasingly tied to the import of
1/  Recent Bank reports on Yugoslavia's industrial sector include special
studies on EXport Performances and Policies (No. 2972-YU), on Productivity
in Yugoslav Industry (Na. 3383a-YU) and on Small Scale Industry and Indus-
trial Policy (No. 3452-YU) and Chapter VI of the report.  Yugoslavia -
Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (No. 3954-YU).
2/  Including manufacturing and mining, and excluding electrical power genera-
tion and construction.
3/  Gross Material Product.



- 3 -
raw muaterials, intermediate products and capital goods.  Both the 1971-75 and
the 1976-80 five-year plans called for structural changes in industrial pro-
duction, with a policy of simultaneous import-substitution and export promo-
tion. Certain sectors like energy, raw materials, intermediate products and
capital goods were designated as priority sectors with the aim of reducing
technical and technological dependence on foreign countries. Various policy
measures were introduced to revive industrial export growth, although primary
emphasis was put on import substitution with the notion that it was a more
certain way to achieve external balance and to make the economy less vulne-
rable to external conditions. Although the policy of moderate import protec-
tion was maintained, such protection intensified in response to balance-of-
payments difficulties, particularly during the second half of the 1970s.
2.03     On the whole, performance of industry during the 1970's was characte-
rized by-.
(i)    despite large annual variations, relatively rapid average growth of
output (7.4 percent per year from 1971 to 1980, which was one point
higher than the average growth of the economy), particularly in the
capital goods sector (8 percent per year), generated by buoyant
domestic demand combined with import protection;
(ii)    high rates of investment, with, however, distortions in sub-sectoral
allocations, leading to lagging development of the designated prio-
rity sectors;
(iii)   significant reduction in the growth of industrial imports, due to
both import protection and successful import-substitution, but also
sluggish industrial exports growth (3.8% per year during 1973-80),
particularly in the developed countries market;
(iv)    increasing capital intensity of industrial investment coupled with
only modest growth, if not stagnation in total factor productivity,
because of continued emphasis on developing capital intensive basic
industries and increased capital intensity of investment in proces-
sing industries; and
(v)    rapid growth in employment (4%), but modest compared to the growth of
total investment (7%).
Industrial growth was slightly faster in the LDR than in the MDR in the 1970s.
However, both capital investment and employment growth were also higher in the
LDR, to degrees which imply that productivity of capital and labor and the
overall efficiency of industry in these regions has been considerably lower
than in the MDR.
B. Industrial Development Issues and Objectives
2.04     Issues.  After three decades of rapid development Yugoslav industry
is facing a number of problems. The foremost issue is the need for external
adjustment. With the stress placed on import-substitution, Yugoslavia has
been successful in curbing the rate of growth of its industrial imports during



-4-
the 1970s.  However, the reduction in import growth was partly achieved
through direct import restrictions and tariff protection, whi;ch combined with
other factors, resulted in a bias against exports and distortions in the
industrial structure.  In the period 1953-65, Yugoslavia's total commodity
exports, made up mainly of industrial products, had increased by 11.4 percent
yearly in real terms and by the end of that period Yugoslavia was the leading
exporter of capital goods and the fourth for all manufacturers among deve-
loping countries.  By contrast, the growth of Yugoslav exports, which has
become highly cyclical in relation to conditions on the domestic market,
slackened to 6.4 percent during 1965-72 and 3.8 percent during 1973-80 1/. As
a result of tne slugglish growth of industrial exports, rapidly rising costs
of imported energy and deteriorating terms of trade during the same period,
the trade deficit has substantially widened.  In view of the constrained
foreign exchange position and adverse situation for Yugoslav workers in Wes-
tern European labor markets, it is becoming vital for Yugoslavia to give its
industry a strong drive toward export for the long term, to optimize the uti-
lization of domestic resources, particularly natural resources and labor, and
to specialize in areas where it has a comparative advantage.
2.05     Beyond direct balance-of-payments effects, a more outward-orientation
of Yugoslav industry would lead to improvements for thie industrial sector as
a whole in the long run.  Greater responsiveness to international competition
would necessitate optimizing resource allocation, increasing capacity utiliza-
tion, seeking economies of scale, and improving technology and productivity.
A sustained export orientation would require equalizing export incentives
among industrial branches, reducing import protection--when the foreign ex-
change situation permits--, rationalizing the system of foreign exchange
allocation, and adjusting the domestic price structure; this, in turn, would
stimulate industries serving the domestic market to make more efficient and
rational use of resources and to increase their productivity.  Ultimately,
certain sub-sectors would have to be restructured and enterprises among
regions would have to coordinate their development and associate themselves
tnrough domestic joint ventures to achieve economies of scale and speciali-
zation, and penetrate foreign markets.
2.06     The progress toward reduction of inter-regional disparities of income
in Yugoslavia has remained below expectations.  The relative per capita income
position of the LDR has not improved during the last Plan, despite substantial
flows oL resources from the MDR through the Federal budget and the Federal
Fund for the Accelerated Development of LDR.   While Yugoslavia GMP per capita
increased by an annual average of 4.9 percent during 1976-80, it is estimated
to have grown at 5.3 percent in Bosnia-Herzegovina, 5.0 percent in Macedonia
and Montenegro and 1.8 percent only in Kosovo.  On average the GMP per capita
i-an the MDR is currently more than double that of the LDR; at the extreme, that
of Slovenia is over six times that of the least developed region (Kosovo).
(See Section C, paras 2.14 to 2.18 below).   Because of rapid population
growth, limited inter-regional labor mobility, a net return of migrant workers
from abroad in recent years and the capital intensity of past investments in
industry, structural unemployment has remained high in the LDR, particularly
in Kosovo.  The -ratio of job seekers to total labor force has increased to
12.5 percent in 1981 from 6.5 percent in 1973 in the four LDR, while it
1/ See SAR No. 3780-YU on a Sixth Industrial Credit Project - Yugoslavia
(paras 2.12-2.21 and Annex 1), for a more detailed analysis of
Yugoslavia's export performance and potential.



was 6&8 percent only in the MDR (3.6 percent in 1973).  In Kosovo, job seekers
represented 17.0 percent of the labor force. The trade balance of the LDR is
much less favorable than that of the MDR because of limited exports and rela-
tively larger import requirements, particularly for investment. This situa-
tion, comDined with probably more limited funds for investment in the coming
years than in the 1960s and the 1970s, points to the need to use investment
funds primarily for employment creation and export promotion in the LDR.
2.07     Although the objectives of employment creation and export promotion
may not be always consistent, they are likely to be interrelated in the LDR.
Employment growth may be adversely affected to the extent that export orienta-
tion leads to more rapid increases in total factor productivity than an inward
orientation. However, employment would, in turn, benefit from the likely re-
lative labor-intensity of manufacturing exports and their indirect effects on
growth of industry, as well as, in the long run, from the use of the capital
saved, The LDR, Kosovo and Montenegro in particular, benefit from the advan-
tages of the availability of a number of raw materials and basic industries
(see Section C) and of abundant and relatively cheap labor.  The appropriate
strategy for these two regions is to develop labor intensive processing indus-
tries which take advantage of their existing capacities in basic industries,
both for the Yugoslav market and for export.
2.08     Raising labor productivity, as well as capital productivity is a key
issue for the external adjustment of Yugoslav industry, particularly in the
LDR. The system of investment planning has a number of weaknesses whicn, when
combined with inappropriate policies and market signals, including the distor-
ted price structure and insufficient worker motivation, have created the con-
ditions for low factor productivity in Yugoslav industry.  The priority sec-
tors designated in the federal and regional plans and the projects generated
by the enterprises are primarily derived from the stress on a balanced struc-
ture of production in an input-output framework. The economic analysis under-
lying investment selection does not always take into account such issues as
the comparative advantage of Yugoslav industry and minimization of domestic
resource costs,  Because of substantial financing from borrowed funds 1/, the
subsidized interest rates and the self interest of workers and managers in
raising their incomes through increased capital intensity, the preferred tech-
nology is often the latest available on the market, with little attention to
the Yugoslav situation of lower labor costs, scarcity of foreign exchange, and
high levels of unemploymenL in the LDR. Because of the predominance of loc5l
and regional interests, the fragmentation of the capital market among regional
lines and difficulties in pooling resources among enterprises and across re-
gions, there is little incentive and no well-defined mechanism to analyze
alternative location or scale of projects and coordinate industrial develop-
ment on a country-wide basis.  Joint ventures between LDR and MDR enterprises
are seen as a major mechanism for raising LDR productivity and adjusting their
productive structure away from their present capital-intensive basic indus-
tries, and to improve industrial coordination among regions (para 2.15).
There is also a need to improve economic analysis of projects and investment
criteria by the enterprises and the banks (para 3.08).
1/ The share of enterprise self financing in industrial investment in 1978
averaged 36 percent.



20Q9     Planniiig Objectives.  The industrial sector will need to play a cen-
tral role in the process of external adjustment that Yugoslavia is to be enga-
ged in for most: of this decade. A new five-year plan was launched in 1981
but was soon overtaken by events, notably a much greater shortage of foreign
exchange than had been anticipated, resulting from increasing debt service
obligations, difficult borrowing conditions in international markets and lower
external demand for exports. Because of the tight external liquidity position
severe cuts in imports have had to be imposed, which in turn are having an
adverse effect on industrial production and exports.  Instead of attempting to
redraft the plan to conform to the altered situation, the Government has esta-
blished a stabilization commission to prepare ad hoc recommendations and mea-
sures. The broad orientation of industrial policy is nevertheless clear.
There is to be a pronounced shift from import substitution toward export-led
growth.  There is also to be a stress on rationalization and greater efficien-
cy of investment planning, implementation and use, and the completion of on-
going projects.  The rate of fixed investment is to be reduced substantially,
although to a lesser extent in industry than in other sectors.  Emphasis is
placed on modernization of existing industries, backward and forward linkages
among industries and removal of bottlenecks, and productivity increases to
save on the use of scarce investment resources.
2.10     Within the reduced investment total the share going to the designatedi
priority sectors is likely to be higher than in the past. These sectors are,
energy, basic metals, minerals and basic chemicals, capital goods and exports.
Employment creation is a continued objective of industrial policy, particularly
in the LDR, and is to be fostered through the development of labor-intensive
processing industries, the encouragement of small and medium scale enterpri ses,
and by measures to increase the demand for labor and to improve the efficiency
of the labor market (para. 2.13).  There is also a continued desire to indus-
trialize all regions and communes of the country, a goal which has been pur-
sued with considerable success so far.
2.11     In the initial Federal Plan industrial export growth was projected
at 8 percent annually for the period 1981-85, implying an elasticity of 1Q6 co
industrial output growth, compared with 0.5 achieved during the last Plan
period. The leading sectors for exports are expected to be the machinery and
metal processing industries, particularly capital goods, nonferrous metals,
textiles and clothing and agro-industries, wIth a projected growth of 9-10
percent per year.  Specialization in export at the level of subsectors and.
enterprises is to be sought as well as the development of exports based on the
processing of domaestic raw materials and domestic resources. With respect to
outlets for Yugoslav industrial exports, it is anticipated that the deveLoping
countries, including the oil exporting countries, will become the most dynamnic
markets.
2.l2     The Federal Plan identifies well the various causes for the country's
disappointing industrial export performance in the 1970s 1/ and addresses a
number of policy issues, which are immediate prerequisites to the success of
an outward orientation, including the rationalization of export and more effi-
cient import substitution.  The Plan calls for changes in investment policy,
demand management, the system of foreign exchange allocation, the exchange
1/  See.  Yugoslavia - Export Performances and Policies (2972-YU); Yugoslavia
- Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives (3954-YU) and SAR on
the Sixth Industrial Credit Project (3780-YU).



- 7.-
rate policy, the pricing of capital, export incentives and promotion and ex-
port credit.  A number of steps have been taken in these directions in the
last two years.  In the context of an SDR 1.7 billion standby arrangement, the
dinar has been devalued in mid-1981 and late 1982 and a more active exchange
rate policy is now pursued. The growth of domestic demand is being restrained
through credit restrictions, limitations on wage growth and fiscal provisions.
The regional plans have introduced stringent criteria for allocation of invest-
ment resources in priority areas.  Strict price controls are in effect to
check inflation.  Interest rates have been raised (para. 3.09) . The availabi-
lity of export credit has been increased (para. 3.04).  Proposals to improve
and increase export incentives are being reviewed by the various institutions
concerned, with a view in particular to encourage export specialization and
the processing of domestic raw materials and foster exports to developing
countries.  To remove the bias against exports, import protection is to be
reduced, although temporary measures aiming at limiting import growth have to
be maintained under the current program of stabilization.  In the planning
process, attempts have been made to improve inter-regional industrial coordi-
nation through the conclusion of social compacts among regions on the develop-
ment of industrial capacities, particularly in basic industries.  It is also
expected that progress in this area will result from the "pooling" of resour-
ces among enterprises and joint ventures, which are stimulated by more active
measures (para 2.15).
2.13     These policy measures are the first elements of a program of long
term economic stabilization which is being prepared by the Stabilization
Commission and its various working groups.  With respect to employment, the
Commission has already made recommendations in the areas of investment policy,
the system of taxes and contributions on labor, interest rates and employment
subsidies (changing the relative price of capital and labor) , employment fund
and training subsidies, incentives to regional labor mobility, reform of the
education system, and increased work shifts and labor use.  There is an active
dialogue between the Government and the bank on employment issues.
C. Regional Development and Industry in Kosovo and Montenegro
2.14     Over the past 30 years, the share of industry in GMP in the four LDR
grew faster than in other regions.  Although the LDR started with a considera-
bly lower level of industrial development after Second World War, by 1980,
industry's share in the GMP of the LDR (38 percent) exceeded that of the more
developed regions (MDR) (37 percent). However, the value added in industry in
the MDR is twice that in the LDR on a per capita basis. Because of the LDRs'
substantial wealth of mineral and energy resources, basic industries have
played a very important role in their economies, implying a more capital in-
tensive industrial structure than for the M4DR.  basic industries made up more
than 33 percent of industrial value added in the LDR in 1980 compared with 19
percent in the MDR. Over 56 percent of the LDR capital stock is invested in
Yugoslavia's 13 most capital intensive industrial branches.  Among the LDR,
Montenegro and Kosovo continue to have the most capital intensive industrial
structures, with basic industries making up nearly 40 percent of industrial
value added.  In addition to the need to exploit natural resources, regional
industrial planners have advocated the development of heavy industries because
these were believed to generate highi levels of savings; also, it was easier to



-> 8 -
channel transfers of the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions, 1/ made at subsioized interest rates, in large capital
intensive projects in view of the lack of industrial experience, shortage of
skilled labor and limited management capability of the LDR.
2.15     Yugoslavia has maintained an impressive record of resource transfer
from the MDR to the LDR.  Over the i976&80 Planr  ihe transfer of concessional
investment funds through the Federal Fund aruounted to approximately $4 billion.
In addition, federal grants of the order of $2 billion were provided to support
local social services in the LDR,  Besides, joint ventures between enterprises
of the MDR and LDR were encouraged by various Federal laws, in order to in-
crease transfer of resources, industrial know-hIow and mlanagerial capability
and to achieve bietter industrial integration and coordination among regions.
For various reasons, however, including the strong regional character of
Yugoslav enterprises and difficulties in moving capital, iabor, managers and
final products across regions in Yugoslavia, the incentives to joint ventures
have not been very effective in the past.  The new Federal Plan provides for a
system to stimulate the establishment of joint ventures which proves to be
more effective.  Enterprises of the MDR are free to use up to 50 percent of
their compulsory contributions to the Federal Fund to make investments in the
LDR in the form of credits to, or equity allocations for joint ventures.  In
1981 and the first half of 1982, about 140 joint ventures have been concluded
between regions for a total of about Din 50 billion (or about $800 million) 
In addition, another 100 projects are said to be under negotiations.  Most of
the joint venture contracts provide for technical and management assistance
agreements.  Total contributions for transfers to LDR, directly in the form of
joint ventures or through the Federal Fund, are projected at $7 billion for
the five-year period, representing 1.83 percent of the MDR's GMP.  Transters
to each LDR are allocated on the basis of comparative development levels, with
the greater part going to Kosovo.
2.16     Joint ventures with established enterprises of the MDR are of parti-
cular importance to develop export and labor intensive projects in processing
industries in the LDR, since this should facilitate access to domestic and
foreign markets, including sub-contracting arrangements.  Most of the interest
of the MDR has initially centered on the potential for increasing the produc-
tion of energy and raw materials in the LDR to serve their own processing
industries.  However, MDR are now gaining interest in projects of processing
ind-ustries in the LDR, because of the lower cost of labor and the access these
priority projects can have to subsidized financing from the Federal Fund.  One
of the most serious problems is the financing of the foreign exchange costs of
joint venture projects because of the difficulties associated with the present
system of foreign exchange allocation and the transfer of foreign exchange
rights from one region to another5 and the current scarcity of foreign exchange
for investment purposes. By making available foreign exchange financing for
joint venture projects meeting the export or labor intensity criteria (para.
5.05) , the proposed loan should help considerably the conclusion of joint ven-
tures in priority projects in Kosovo and Montenegro.
1/  The Fund's resources are made from compulsory contributions by MDRs'
enterprises.



- 9 -
2.17     Although, the situation and past performance of industry as well as
the priorities of industrial development strategy vary from one region to the
other, the issues discussed in the preceding sections with respect to the
industrial structure, factor productivity and exports for Yugoslavia as a
whole, are relevant to Kosovo and Montenegro, the two regions to be assisted
under the proposed project. Their regional plans ,:losely reflect the broad
objectives of the Federal Plan.  In Kosovo, basic industries have been deve-
loped in mining, namely lead, zinc, nickel, cadmium, bismuth and some precious
metals, and energy (coal, electricity and gas based on lignite).  The manufac-
turing industry is limited to about fifty medium and large enterprises in
metal processing mechanical and electrical industries, processed chemicals and
pharmaceuticals, construction materials, furniture and wood processing, paper
production, textiles, leather and fur, rubber and printing.  Commodity exports
were of the order of $200 million in 1981, 50 percent of which were lead and
zinc.  The Social Plan empnasizes the completion of ongoing projects and the
creation of small and inedium scale labor intensive industries for the proces-
sing of local raw materials to serve the domestic market in Kosovo and other
republics. Export growth during the Plan would mainly come from new capaci-
ties for the production of ferro-nickel and ferro-sicilium, and from a few
manufacturing industries.  The revised target (after introduction of stabili-
zation measures) for the growth of Kosovo's economy is 5.1 percent annually,
implying a growth rate of 6.1 percent in industry and mining. The high rate
of unemployment (17 percent of the labor force) is the single most important
issue that Kosovo has to address and the Plan aims at the creation of 65,000
new jobs in the social sector, largely in industry. Actual employment in
industry totalled 65,900 jobs in 1982, which gives an idea of the importance
of the Plan target for employment creation. During the Plan, $2.0 billion 1/
-- or 65 percent of total investment -- is to be invested in industry for the
period 1981-85.  Fifty five percent of total investment is to be financed from
the Federal Fund and through joint ventures with labor organizations of the
MDR. Twenty five joint venture agreements were signed in 1981-82, represen-
ting a total of 12,000 new jobs.
2.18     In Montenegro, industrial development is even less advanced than in
Kosovo. Large capacities have been established for the production of steel
and aluminum which are mainly used by other republics. Beyond that, there are
few processing industries, mainly aluminum processing, shipbuilding, machine
building and electrical industries, wood and paper, construction materials,
textiles and leather, and tood products; and industrial experience is limited
in these industries. Commodity exports are small -- about $150 million in
l981 -- and include mainly aluminum and steel.  Unemployment (12 percent ot
the labor force) and, to a larger extent, availability of the skills needed by
industry are major issues in the republic although less acute than in Kosovo.
In industry, the Social Plan gives a marked priority to the development of
processing industries for export, based on locally produced raw materials
(aluminum, steel, wood, leather and textiles, and agriculture), and emphasizes
rapid inco-.ne generation and e,ficiency, regional development within the repu-
blic and employment creation, particularly through a program of small and
medium scale industries.  Growth of the economy is projected at 3.4 percent
annually (revised target). The main determinant of growth in Montenegro would
be tourism.  Industrial exports are projected to grow by 10 percent a year.
Actual employment in industry totalled 36,000 jobs in 1980.  Twenty three
I/ Revised target after introduction of stabilization measures, in 1980
prices and exchange rate.



- 10 -
thousand new jobs are expected to be created in Montenegro's Social Sector
during 1981-85, of which 9,000 in industry.  In addition to the resources ear-
marked for earthquake reconstruction, $750 million 1/ are to be invested in
industry for the period 1981-85.  In 1981-82, 15 joint ventures agreements
have been signed for projects in industry.  A dozen of other industrial pro-
jects are under negotiations.  One of the main issues in Montenegro, like in
Kosovo, to meet the priorities of the Plan is the limited capacity to generate
projects and to identify new lines of production for exports.
III. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. The Structure of the Financial Sector
3.01     Yugoslavia's financial sector was reorganized in 1978 through a new
Federal Credit and Banking Law.  Essentially the Law converted the banks from
autonomous decisionr-making units to institutions fully integrated with the
organisations of associated labor, self management communities of interest and
oth er social orgainizations, which are their founder-members. This integration
implies joint management and profit-sharing by the members together with un-
limited liability for obligations and risk-sharing.  The socio-political comr
munities cannot be founders of a banking organization.  The Law has established
a three-tier banking structure, organized on a regional basis and consisting
of internal banks, basic banks and associated banks.  In addition, provisions
have been made for the establishment ot specialized banks, such as the Yugos-
lav Bank for International Economic Cooperation, joint banks between Yugoslav
and foreign banks, represenitative offices of Yugoslav banks abroad and ot
foreign banks in Yugoslavia, and associations of banking organizations.  The
financial sector also includes savings institutions, notably the Post Office
Saving Bank, and cooperatives, and the system of National Banks (para. 3.03).
Other financial entities comprise the Federal and regional investment loan
funds (para 2.15), and insurance comnunities.  There are no capital markets.
However, organizations of associated labor can make investment loans to each
other or equity allocations for joint ventures, and pool investment resources.
Auditing of all enterprises and banks is performed by a single agency, the
Social Accounting Service (SDK), which also operates as clearing center for
iiabilities among enterprises.
3.02     An internal bank is a financial service organization established as a
legal entity through a self management agreement among Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOALS) of a large enterprise or Kombinat.  The basic and
associated banks are the main financial intermediaries in Yugoslavia, carrying
out all commercial and investment banking functions for all sectors of the
economy   Basic banks are the core of the banking system at the local level.
Their founder-memnbers are the organizations of associated labor (enterprises),
internal banks and social entities of their region; in general, they evolved
from branches of the commercial banks 2/ predating the new Law.  They are the
only banks which can accept sight deposits.  There are about 160 basic banks
in Yugoslavia, their total assets and liabilities ranging from Din. 400
million to Din. 200 billion.  Associated banks are founded by basic banks in
the same region through a self management agreement, to concentrate resources
for financing larger investments and to carry out foreign business transac-
tions, including collecting savings-deposits of individuals abroad, on behalf
1/  At 1980 prices and exchange rate.
2/ These were, i.n fact, an apex bank for each region.



- 11 -
of their members.  In some respects, the concept of Yugoslav associated banks
is close to that of a usual DFC.  They also administer the Federal Fund and
the regional funds allocations in their respective regions. Of the ten asso-
ciated banks, there is one in each republic and autonomous province, with the
exception of Serbia where three associated banks are operating. The associa-
ted banks of Kosovo and Montenegro are the borrowers under this project.  In
addition to access to short term credit from the National Banks and normal
rediscounting facilities, the banks can borrow from each other through daily
money markets in each region.  Tne banks can form consortia for financing
important investments, and commercial operations abroad, and establish asso-
ciations of banking organizations. The most important is the Yugoslav Banks'
Association which coordinates the banks' policies and procedures across Yugos-
lavia, including, in particular, interest rate policies. The institutional
aspects of the borrowing banks, their operations and performance are discussed
in Chapter IV of this report.
3.03     The nine Federal and regional National Banks were established in the
early seventies to replace the then existing National Bank. They are managed
by a Governor and a Council of Governors, appointed by the Federal Assembly
and the regional assemblies.  They operate as a uniform central banking system
to implement the Federal and regional money and credit policies and employ
classic instruments of central banks. -They also act as bankers to governments
and socio-political communities. They control foreign payments, regulate
foreign exchange and can borrow abroad. Based on a recent agreement, they
carry the foreign exchange risk on local bank deposits of individuals abroad.
They do not lend directly to enterprises, but they provide credit to basic and
associated banks for financing priority activities. The National Banks have
limited influence on interest rates except through their rediscounting
instruments.
3.04     Exporters have access to credit at subsidized terms.  Short term cre-
dit is made available by the basic banks, for preparation of export (produc-
tion) and shipping. These credits are rediscounted by the National Bank at
preferential rates. According to Yugoslav banks and exporting enterprises,
access to short term credit for export is not a constraint. Until 1979, how-
ever, access to longer term credit facilities for financing export of capital
goods was limited and provided by the banks out of the resources of the Export
Credit and Insurance Fund and the National Banks. Aware of the need to in-
crease the availability of long-term credit for capital goods export financing
to sustain international competition, especially in the developing countries,
tne authorities established, in 1979, the Yugoslav Bank for International Eco-
nomic Cooperation (YBIEC).  YBIEC provides i) export credit insurance against
non commercial risks; ii) refinancing in domestic currency medium and long-
term export credit made by the banks; and iii) buyers credits to foreign
buyers of capital goods, turn-rkey projects and contracting services. Accor-
ding to its by-laws, the YBIEC is also entitled to promote, oversee and aid
the establishment in Yugoslavia of joint 4in-ncial organizations with foreign
parties or to provide assistance to joint ventures in other markets. It is
estimated that export credit covers currently about 35 percent of Yugoslav
exports of capital equipment.



B. Resource Mobilization and Allocation
3.05     Yugoslavia's saving rate nas Deen traditionally nigh and resource
mobilization through fiscal policies and financial intermediation has been
quite effective.  The bulk of domestic savings (about 60 percent of the total)
is generated by the enterprises of the social sector. Their investments, hcw-
ever, are considerably higher than their accumulation, resulting in large ne-
gative financial savings. Households and, to a lesser extent, non economic
organizations constitute the main source of financial savings.  Foreign
resources have also representea a significant share of investment resources,
particularly during the 1976-80 Plan. Besides equity (founders' fund), the
resources of ban,ks are made up of sight and term deposits of household and
private sector, enterprises and other organizations, resources from the re-
gional funds, and from the Federal Fund in the case of banks of the LDR, bor-
rowing from other banks in Yugoslavia, and foreign borrowing. Each bank has a
monopoly in its region as a mobilizer of resources, but it can lend in other
regions.  The enterprises are free to choose their banks and banks can "pool"
resources among themselves for major investments.  Tne banks have had the
right to invest a certain amount of their short-term resources in long term
credits, subject to approval of the monetary authorities on an annual basis,
3.06     The associated banks' efforts in mobilizing foreign resources have
been directed at guaranteeing suppliers' and buyers' credits committed by
enterprises, attracting deposits of Yugoslav workers abroad and obtaining
foreign loans. The current policy of associated banks, however,is to limit
considerably foreign borrowings in the form of financial credits from commer-
cial banks. Since mid-1980, the National Bank has replaced banks as the prin-
cipal borrower of financial credits in order both to facilitate negotiations
with foreign sources and to ensure better coordination in approaching interna-
tional markets.
3.07     Yugoslavia's planning mechanism involves a process of intensive con-
sultations between all groups in society, materializing in plans at the enter-
prises, communal, regional, federal and banking sector levels, and the conclu-
sion of social compacts and self-management agreements which have the force of
law. Ultimately the social compacts and self-management agreements are
binding for the banks.  Their five-year plans for allocating funds in the
priority sectors are to be the synthesis of federal, regional and enterprises
plans.  The allocative role of banks is essential since the demand of enter-
prises for investment funds consistently exceeds the resources available to
the banks. At the stage of investment decisions, the banks have a key role to
play in ensuring that the projects presented by the enterprises are consistent
with the priorities set forth in the plans, in terms of sectors, location,
markets, technology, employment erfects, etc., correspond to the investment
proposals initiaLly agreed in the planning process and are economically and
financially viable. Although enterprises have to submit large projects to the
regional Chamber of Economy, mainly to ensure coordination of industrial deve-
lopment among regions, the banks are the only institutions formally involved
in investment decisions with the enterprises.  The banks' impact on project
preparation is also significant as most projects are brought to the banks'
attention at an early stage.



13 -
3.08     The project evaluation work of the banks is usually limited and only
selective project evaluation techniques are applied, except for projects
financed from IBRD loans by banks in the LDR.  Following the reform of the
banking system, the assembly of each bank is made up of delegates elected by
its member enterprises (or member basic banks, in case of associated banks),
as are its executive board, managing board and credit board. This contributes
to make the banks well aware of the needs of the enterprises they serve and
economic objectives and priorities in their regions.  It is possible, however,
that this reform could weaken the ability of the banks to make investment
decisions guided exclusively by economic considerations.  Improved project
evaluation by the banks would enable investment decisions to be made in full
knowledge of economic and financial facts, and contribute to reduce the in-
fluence of non economic factors, as stricter project supervision by Danks
would greatly contribute to improved project implementation and investment
efficiency.  This is a major element of the institution building program under
the proposed project.
3.09     The negative structure of real interest rates has been a focus of the
economic dialogue between Yugoslavia and the Bank for many years. Yugoslavia's
position was that if interest rates were to become a binding constraint on
investment planning, this would preempt the dominant role of social planning
and group consensus in determining investment allocation.  However, views that
interest rates must play an economic role, even in the system of social plan-
ning, have gained recently increasing acceptance in Yugoslavia and made their
way through the new Federal Social Plan, the resolutions of the National
Assembly and, more recently, the recommendations of the Stabilization Commis-
sion.  For several months the Yugoslav Banks Association conducted a review of
the interest rate structure and, in May and October 1982, and again in
February 1983, significant increases in the structure of deposit rates and
rediscount rates were implemented. Commercial banks raised accordingly their
lending rates. Long term lending rates to non priority sectors are now above
16 percent.  The mediun-term objective is to introduce steadily a structure of
positive real interest rates by gradually adjusting interest rates and,
concurrently, reducing inflation. The priority sectors continue to benefit
from special, although somewhat increased rates.
3.10     It was agreed under the Sixth Industrial Credit (approved on April
27, 1982) that the borrowing banks, PBS and SBS, will (i) charge a minimum
interest spread of 1.25% on the Bank loans and (ii) increase the interest
rates on local currency loans from the banks' own sources to a minimum of 15%
per annum. This was based on the assumption that the Government will succeed
in bringing down inflation to 15% in 1982, 14X in 1983 and 13% in 1984.
Actual inflation in 1982 is estimated at 32%. The bank's torecast prepared in
December 1982 projects an inflation rate of 30% in 1983, 25% in 1984 and 20.
in 1985.  Consequently, in the context of proposed loans, understandings were
reached to further increase the interest rate on long-term loans to
sub-projects made from the banks' own local currency resources to a minimum of
18 percent. In addition, as agreed under the Structural Adjustment Loan for
Yugoslavia, the authorities would gradually adjust these interest rates over a
period of three years, beginning January 1, 1984, to make them positive in
real terms.



- 14 -
3.11     Tne banks also provide long-term local currency loans from the
Federal and regional funds.  Most of these funds are obligatory contributions
imposed on enterprises in Yugoslavia to meet specific social objectives and
they are of a quasi-equity nature.  In line with what was agreed under earlier
industrial credits, no floor rates should apply to banks' lending from these
resources.
3.12     Like the Sixth Industrial Credit, the proposed Bank loans will be
onlent by the borrowing banks to sub-borrowers after adding a minimum spread
of 1.25% on the Bank's applicable interest rate.  This spread would be suffi-
cient to cover administrative expenses and other related costs/provisions of
the borrowing banks,  As sub-borrowers will carry the foreign exchange risk on
the proposed loa:as, the real cost of the Bank's funds to sub-borrowers would
be very close to that of international commercial sources taking into account
the currency pooling system and currert international lending rates.
IV. BORROWING BANKS 1/
A. institutional Aspects
4.01     The overall institutional structure of the borrowing banks is
summarized in Annex l.  KBP's institutional problems are deep-rooted.  The
Bank's past efforts for KBP's institution-building have brought limited
improvements and there have often been reverses. Consequently, the Bank
appointed a consultant in January, 1982 to make an indepth study of KBP's
organization, management, staff, policies and procedures and to make recom-
mendations for necessary improvements.  The consultant's study pointed out the
following main problem areas which had to be addressed on a priority basis'.
weak middle management, inadequacy of professional and supporting staff, lack
of staff training, weak project appraisal, delays and poor coordination in
project processing, inadequate project supervision, inappropriate procedures
for loan disbursement, and inadequate staffing of the IBRD unit responsible
for coordination with the World Bank.  Following the discussions of the con-
sultant's report with KBP, and in consultation with the appraisal mission for
the Kosovo Regional Development Project (KRDP), a priority action plan has
been prepared to alleviate the major problems of K!BP.  This plan was formally
agreed during loan negotiations of KRDP and the proposed project.  The main
elements of this plan (except those specific to KRDP) 2/, are given below. As
indicated9 KBP has already initiated implementation of some of the agreed
measures included i n the plan.
(i)    Appointment of a Development Banking Advisor:  KBP will appoint a
development banking advisor, acceptable to the bank, for about 12
months over two years.  He will provide advice and guidance mainly on
policy matters, staff training in procedures and techniques relating
to the whole project cycle, introduction of management information
1/  In this chapter, institutional aspects essentially relate to associated
banks, whereas operational and financial aspects cover the combined posi-
tion of associated banks and their member basic banks.  The general orga-
nizational aspects of the banking sector are discussed in Chapter III.
2/  Please see SAR No. 4154-YU for Kosovo Regional Development Project (KRDP)



- 15 -
system and implementation of project supervision program.  The TOR of
the advisor is given in Annex 2.  In view of the importance of the
appointment of development banking advisor for the success of the
overall institution building program of KBP, this appointment will be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan for KBP 1/.  In
addition KBP will appoint a senior officer as a counterpart to the
development banking advisor.
(ii) Appointment of a Senior Advisor on World Bank Matters: KBP has
appointed, from within its staff, a senior advisor in the Secretariat
of the Management Board (Annex 1, para 4). He is to coordinate all
matters related to KBP's relations with and operations under the
Bank's loans, in particular, the work of the IBRD unit.
(iii) Strengthening of Middle Management: A KBP-prepared program to
improve its middle management efficiency was agreed during
negotiations. The program includes, among others, measures to fill
existing staff vacancies -in KBP, to appoint a deputy/alternate for
key positions, to delegate authority, to introduce a management
intormation system, to provide work incentives and to add supporting
staff. The program was approved by the Management Board of KBP in
May 1983 ror immediate implementation.  KBP has also selected an
institute for developing a management information system. The
proposed system would oe sent to the Bank by September 1983 for
comments and would be implemented tnereafter.
(iv) Procedures: A KBP Work Group, consisting of its five senior
officers, has prepared simplified and standard procedures for project
processing, loan approvals and disbursements. The Work Group's
recommendations on new procedures will be reviewed by the Bank and
are scheduled for implementation by October 1983.  KBP has already
decided that, in order to ensure the use of loan proceeds for
authorized purposes, all disbursement applications should now be
first approved by the engineer/project team leader concerned instead
of being directly processed by disbursement staff.
(v) Internal Auditors; Two internal auditors have been appointed by
KBP.  The tasks and duties of internal auditors-have been defined in
consultation with SDK and are acceptable.
(vi)  Staff for Project Appraisal:  KBP has created eight vacancies of
engineers in its newly created Development Investment Institute
(mainly responsible for engineering input in project work and
promotional activities) and two vacancies of economists/tinancial
analysts in the Industry Department; all vacancies are expected to be
filled by June 1983. The number of engineers (in the Institute) and
economists/financial analysts (for industrial projects) will thus
increase to 11 and 13, respectively.
1/    This is also a condition of effectiveness of KRDP.



- 16 -
(vii)  Project Supervision: KBP has adopted a better organized and more
effective project supervision system covering, management, technical,
marketing and financial aspects as proposed by the Bank.  The system
includes periodic reporting by borrowers, planned visits by KBP's
staff to project sites, and use of standard reporting formats.  The
system is presently applied on a selective basis due to inadequacy of
the existing staff but will cover all projects with the appointment
of additional personnel.  KBP has decided to establish a separate
supervision department with 10 professional (8 seniors and 2 juniors)
and 3 supporting staff. The appointment of all staff will be
completed by September 30, 1983. The staffing requirements for the
supervision work will be reviewed on an annual basis, in consultation
with the Bank, and increases will be made as necessary.
(viii)  Appointment of A Training Officer:  KBP has created a position of
training officer and ne is expected to be appointed by October 31,
1983.  The list of nis duties and responsibilities has been submitted
to the Bank and is acceptable. The training officer will prepare,
within two months of nis appointment, a comprehensive staff training
program for KBP's staff.  The program will be submitted to the Bank
for comments before its implementation.
(ix)  Industry Staff Training:  Two members of KBP's professional staff
associated with industrial project work will be trained under the
technical assitance funds of the proposed IC VII (para 5.10). They
will receive mainly on-the-job training for about six months in a
well established development bank in project promotion, appraisal and
supervision. The training, to be arranged by the World Bank, will
take place in 1983-84. Upon return, this staff will assist in the
training of other professional staff in KBP.
(x) Monitoring of Project Work: The Assistant President of KBP has been
made responsible, besides his other duties, for monitoring the entire
project work including identification, development, appraisal,
approval, disbursements, loan recovery, and general supervision of
implementation and operations. The details of monitoring program,
have been submitted to the Bank and are acceptable with certain
improvements.
(xi)  Strengthening of IBRD Unit: 1/  KBP has appointed two economists
(including one head), two translators and one administrative
assistant in the Unit.  This should strengthen staff resources of the
Unit to the desired level.
(xii)  Pre-Screening:  All projects are now subject to prescreening before
detailed appraisal.  This would help to save staff time on projects
whicn are, prima facie, unfeasible or do not meet the financing
criteria of KBP.
(xiii)  Team Approach:  KBP now appoints a team of an engineer and an
economist/financial analyst for the simultaneous appraisal of all
1/ The Unit is basically responsible for the overall coordination and review
of the work related to the Bank's industrial credit projects.



-17
aspects of a project in order to have coordinated and quicker
processing of projects.
4.02     It is expected that above measures will bring more durable long-term
institutional improvemenits in K3P, resulting, particularly, in more effective
management control and better project appraisal and supervision.
4.03     IBT's institutional problems are somewhat less severe.  They include
weak project appraisal and supervision, inadequate management information sys-
tem, poor relationship of tne Associated Bank and member basic banks, and
diversion of staff in the IBRD unit to otner activities.  In 1982, IBT appoin-
ted consultants mainly (i) to analyze the problems and prospects of its major
delinquent projects/enterprises and (ii) to make recommendations for necessary
improvements (para 4.14).  The consultants have presented a comprehensive
report with diagnostic analysis of problems of individual enterprises/projects
and recommendations for possible improvements. In addition, the consultants'
report includes recommendations for the strengttiening of IBT's institutional
structure by reducing the number of basic banks with inadequate staff and
limited operations, assigning greater responsibility to basic banks viz-a-viz
tne Associated Bank, improvement of the internal information system, better
project appraisal, more effective project supervision, and staff training.
The above recommendations have been approved by IBT's Executive Board and
actions for their implementation have been initiated. Consultants will assist
IBT in its organizational improvements including training programs for staff.
During negotiations, IBT also agreed to the following additional
recommendations on organizational improvements that emerged through the
appraisal process -- most of which have a direct relevance to the Bank related
operations.  Also, IBT confirmed that the action on implementation of some of
tnese recommendations has already commenced, as indicated below.
(i)  IBRD Unit:  Staff in the unit is now involved exclusively in the Bank
related operations as providea in the loan agreements; and formal
instructions have been issued to concerned staff in other departments
to provide on a regular basis required information to the unit for
submission to the Bank.  In order to enable the IBRD unit to perform
its functions in accordance with the loan agreements and to meet its
expanded responsibilties, IBT will take the following additional
measures:  (a) the unit will become a Department (called Sector by
IBT) in the organizational structure; (b) an experienced and senior
officer, acceptable to the Bank, will be appointed to head the unit;
(c) the present staff vacancies in the unit will be filled bringing
the total number of professionals in the unit to 10.  The above
measures will be implemented by July 1983.
(ii)  Project supriin.  The project supervision system as proposed by
the Bank has been endorsed by IBT management. Accordingly, IBT will
establish a separate Division for project supervision within the
Crediting and Investment Sector. The Division will have initially
six economists/financial analysts for the industrial sector and they
will work in close coordination  with the technical staff in the
Engineering Department. The staff requirements in the above Division
will be reviewed on an annual basis, in consultation witn the Bank,
and increases will be made as necessary. The above measures will be
implemented by July 1983.



- 18 -
(iii)  Internal audit:  (ae vacancy in the Internal Audit Department has
been filled and two remaining vacancies will be filled by June 1983.
Under the proposed plan for organizational improvements, this
department will report directly to the President.
(iv)  Management information system:  IBT will strengthen its management
information system by monitoring entire project work including iden-
tification, development, appraisal, approval, disbursements, loan
recovery and general supervision of implementation and operations. A
study including proformas to be introduced to improve the flow and
quality of financial information within the IBT system is under way
with the help of Yugoslav consultants and is expected to be completed
by June 1983.  The consultants will also be made responsible to
prepare a project related information system; both will be sent to
the Bank for comments in July 1983.
(v)  Training:  (a) TBT will prepare with the help of its consultants and
with the active participation of the head of IBRD unit, staff
training programs in project appraisal and supervision work,
including Bank methodology and system; details of tne training
program including their time frame will be furnished to the Bank for
comments by July 1983; (b) the head of the unit is providing
on-the-job training in the Bank related operations to all the
professional staff in the unit and this training will be completed by
December 1983; and (c) IBT will nominate by July 31, 1983 and release
by September 30, 1983 two of its professional staff, having knowledge
of Engli;sh language, experience in project appraisal, and potential
for professional development, for training under the TA component of
proposed IC VII.  The nature and purpose of the training will be the
same as for KBP staff (para. 4.01 (ix)).
B. Operations
4.04      The main areas of operations of the two banks continue to be loans
and guarantees and are summarized below:
Table 1: Yugoslavia - Summary of Operations of KBP and IBT
Commitments
1978            1979             1980             1981
Din   $ Mil.   Din   $ Mi1.   Din   $ Mil.   Din   $ Mil.
Bil.  Equiv.   Bil.  Equiv.   Bil.  Equiv.   Bil.  Equiv.
KBP
Long-term loans        9.4    504    18.5    974         7.3    293      16.8    473
Guarantees             1.4      75      3.3    174       2.4      96     4.7    132
Short-term loans       8.3    445       7.7    405      9.7    389    13.1    369
19.1   1024    29.5   1553       19.4    778    34.6    974
IBT
Long-term loans        2.9    156       8.6    453    13.0    522        12.9    363
Guarantees             0.7      37      7.3    384       9.9    397       6.5    183
Short-term loans       0.5      27      4.5    237      6.4    257       6.0    169
4.1    220    20.4   1074    29.3   1176    25.4    715



- 19 -
4.05     Long-Term Loans and Guarantees.  The long-term loans and guarantees
are normally for capital expenditure and have maturities ranging from seven to
fifteen years. Commitments for such loans and guarantees have closely
followed investments in the regional five-year plans. The commitments were
exceptionally high for KBP in 1979 mainly due to investments in a few large
infrastructural projects. In 1980, the commitments were relatively low,
because projects proposed in the 1976-80 plan period had largely commenced.
Overall, long-term loan and guarantee commitments of KBP increased by 21% p.a.
during the 1978-1981 period. Manufacturing accounted for 55% of the long-term
loan commitments. IBT's commitments were exceptionally low in 1978, (mainly
because of much larger commitments in the two earlier years (Din 14.6 million)
but picked up in 1979; the average increase since 1977 being 21% p.a. Manu-
facturing accounted for 61% of IBT's long-term loan commitments.
4.06      Short-Term Loans.  Most short-term loans are revolving credits with
maturities of up to one year to provide working capital to enterprises and are
made by the basic banks.  Short-term loan commitments of KBP increased by 16%
p.a respectively between 1978 and 1981.  IBT's short-term loan commitments
were exceptionally low in 1978 but the overall increase between 1977 and 1981
was 36% p.a.
C. The Banks' Financial Situation
4.07     Financial Position.  The comparative audited balance sheets for the
two banks for the 1979-1981 period are given in Annex 3. KBP's total assets
reached Din 113.5 billion ($2.7 billion) by the end of 1981.  Its long-term
loan and investment portfolio increased by 44% p.a. since 1979 to reach
Din 75.6 billion ($1.8 billion) in 1981. The long-term debt/equity ratio
increased from 10.0;1 in 1979 to 11.7:1 in 1981.  If the Federal and republic
funds are excluded from debt/equity calculations in view of their special
nature (para. 4.10), the ratio would be 2.7:1 in 1981. The short-term depo-
sits of KBP increased by 30% p.a. during the 1979-1981 period. IBT's total
assets reached Din 88.3 billion ($2.1 billion) by the end of 1981. Its long-
term loan and investment portfolio increased by 47% p.a. to reach Din 51.9
billion ($1.2 billion) in 1981. The long-term debt/equity ratio increased
from 10.4:1 in 1979 to 16.8:1 in 1981. Excluding the Federal and Regional
funds, the long-term debt/equity ratio was 13.6:1 at the end of 1981. The
short-term deposits of IBT increased by 36% p.a. during the 1979-1981 period.
The Bank's loans to borrowing banks in Yugoslavia, including KBP and IBT, do
not provide for a maximum debt/equity ratio because of the special characte-
ristics of these institutions (para. 4.22).
4.08     Resource Position.  The long-term resource position of the banks as
of December 31, 1981 is summarized below:



- 20 -
Table 2:  Yugoslavia - Long-Term Resource Position as of December 31, 1981
KBP                    IBT
Din.       $ Mil.       Din.       $ Mil.
Mil.       Equiv.       Mil.       Equiv.
Resources
Equity                                     2,520        60.3       1,918        45.9
Federal and regional funds               48,660      1,163.5       8,054       192.6
Local borrowings                           2,863        68.5      19,469       465.5
IBRD and other foreign borrowings         13,981       334.3      18,880       451.5
Long-term deposits                        10,315       246.7       5,850       139.9
Total long-term resources
available                         78,339    1,873.3       54,171     1,295.4
Applications
Long-term loan portfolio                  82,074    1,962.5       56,969    1,362.2
Available for disbursements               (3,735)      (89.2)    (2,798)       (66.8)
Less;  Undisbursed commitments             9,375       224.2       8,268       197.7
Uncommitted resources
(over commitments)                   (13,110)    (313.4)   (11,0b6)    (264.5)
4.09     The total outstanding resources of KBP and IBT increased by about 79%
and 125% respectively between the end of 1979 and 1981.  KBP's largest resource
was the Federal and provincial funds and accounted for over 60% of the total
outstanding long-term resources employed at the end of 1981 1/.  IBT's largest
resource was local and foreign borrowings and accounted for about 70% of the
total outstanding long-term resources of IBT.
4.10     The overcommitments of the banks would be covered largely by Federal
and regional funds, which the banks would receive on a yearly basis. The
banks are responsible for investing and managing the use of these funds in
priority projects according to regional plans. While treated as debt, these
funds have more the character of managed funds and are of a quasi-equity
nature. The interest rates on the Federal funds were increased in early 1982
and the funds are now lent at 4-7% for investment purposes and repaid to the
original source at 4% over a period of seventeen years, including three years'
grace.  The banks have met the shortfall in their long-term resources by using
a rela- tively small amount of their short-term deposits, which is permissible
under the National Bank regulations.
4.11     Arrears.  The arrears on long-term loans of the two banks are pre-
sented in the following table:
1/ Kosovo, being the least developed among the four less developed regions,
has been the largest recipient of the special funds.



- 21 -
Table 3: Yugoslavia - Long-Term Loans in Arrears of KBP and IBT
as of December 31, 1980 and 1981
(Dinars in millions)
KBP                     IBT
1980     1981          1980      19 81
A.  Long-term loan portfolio                58,716   82,074         41,766   56,969
B. Long-term loans affected                 22,212   30,013         21,538   25,274
by arrears
C.  B as a percentage of A                    37.8      36.6           51.6     44.4
D. Principal in arrears of
- up to 3 months                           677       972           292       642
- 3-6 months                               935    1,058            919       729
- 6-12 months                              548       891           365       565
- over 12 months                           753    1,225          1,413    1,745
Total                               2,913    4,146          2,989    3,681
E.  D as a percentage of A                      4.9      5.0            7.2       b.5
F.  Percentage of arrears over                  3.8      3.9            6.4       5.3
3 months to A
4.12     Several reasons are responsible for the unsatisfactory arrear situa-
tion of the banks, including delays in construction and inflationary pressures
in the economy (which led to cost overruns and cash flow difficulties in some
cases), inadequate supply of raw materials and marketing difficulties resulting
from economic problems in Yugoslavia and among its major trading partners,
reluctance to pool and share foreign exchange earnings by individual enter-
prises, power shortages and the damage to projects in the 1979 earthquake in
Montenegro, and poor project supervision by the two banks.
4.13     KBP's arrears are moderately high but not alarming and should show
improvement in medium-term because of several reasons including that a law has
been passed in Yugoslavia in March 1982 which prohibits new investment loans
and guarantees to borrowers in default; KBP is actively encouraging close
cooperation between the 'haves' and 'have nots' of foreign exchange, so as to
improve capacity utilization of import dependant enterprises; and finally, the
proposed new project supervision system and the establishment of a separate
department with additional staff for this purpose should permit a close
monitoring of project difficulties and timely remedial actions (para. 4.01
(vii)) .
4.14     The arrears situation in regard to IBT is relatively more serious but
confined largely to a small number of borrowers. Nineteen enterprises, facing
major operational difficulties, are responsible for 65% of total arrears. The



- 22 -
remaining 35% of arrears are accounted for by enterprises facing temporary
problems. Two of the 19 enterprises (railways and power -- both of wnich are
assisted by the Bank) account for about 40% of total arrears.  IBT's manage-
ment is concerned with high arrears and it appointed, in 1982, local consul-
tants to review this matter. The consultants have prepared a comprehensive
report which includes analysis of operations, financial situation and pros-
pects for each of the nineteen enterprises.  The recommendations of this
report for improvement of operations of concerned enterprises and loan reco-
very have been largely accepted for implementation by IBT and the Republic
Government as well as the concerned enterprises. The appraisal mission dis-
cussed the recommendations of this report with the consultants and IBT and
found them appropriate.  In addition, the ongoing railway and power operations
of the Bank have focussed on specific problems of the concerned projects,
which should further contribute to reduction of their arrears. Also, as in
KBP, the legal restrictions on additional financial assistance to defaulting
enterprises and strengthening of project supervision should help to improve
the loan recovery position of IBT. The provisional (unaudited) figures
furnished by IBT during negotiations show some improvement in its overall loan
recovery position in 1982. As of December 31, 1982, the loan portfolio
affected by arrears as a percentage of long-term loan portfolio was 36.3%
(44.4% at the end of 1981) and arrears over three months as a percentage of
long-term loan portfolio were 3.3% (5.3% at the end of 1981).  The major
delinquent enterprises are still facing operational and financial problems and
will take more time in their rehabilitation.  The progress on implementation
of consultant's recommendation and the loan recovery position of IBT will be
closely monitored by the Bank during supervision.
4.15     Liquidity.  The liquidity position of the banks is regulated by the
National Bank and supervised by SDK. The current ratio for KBP and IBT at the
end of 1981 was 1.09 and 1.03 respectively, which is acceptable.
4.16     Provisions and Reserves.  Under Yugoslav regulations effective July 1,
1977, banks may make provisions for doubtful loans and interest receivable,
although such doubtful items may be written off only when determined as losses
by a bank assembly or court. KBP and IBT made a bad debt provision of Din. 12
and Din. 80 million respectively in 1980 ana equivalent amounts were written
off during that year.  In 1981, KBP made no bad debt provision, nor it had
loan losses. IBT made a provision of Din 2 million and wrote off an equiva-
lent amount in that year.  Furthermore, under the Credit and Banking Law of
1978, a bank must maintain  Joint Liability Fund (JLF), which can be used to
write off bad debts.  The JLF must not be less than 3% of the banks' total
investments 1/ at the end of the preceding year and this amount was to be made
up by January 15, 1982. At the end of 1981, majority of Yugoslav banks,
including KBP and IBT, had not complied with this requirement. JLF was Din.
911 million ($21.8 million) for KBP and was Din. 583 million ($13.9 million)
for IBT, or 1.27% and 1.00% of investments respectively at the end of 1981.
The management of the banks is of the view that, given the particular context
of Yugoslavia, significant write-offs will not occur in the future and that
adequate provisions have been made for possible small losses.
4.17      The Yugoslav Credit and Banking Law of 1978 also requires that the
banks should create a Reserve Fund (RF) to maintain their liquidity.  The RF
1/ Includes all short- and long-term loans except those made from Federal
Funds.



- 23 -
should be increased to 3% of total investments 1/ by allocating out of the
banks' annual net income a sum equivalent to a minimum of 0.3% of their total
investments. Yugoslav banks have not fully met these requirements and the RF
of KBP and IBT was 0.5% and 0.6% respectively of their total investments at
the end of 1981.
4.18      The Bank has raised with the Government and SDK the issue of banks'
non-compliance with provisions of Yugoslav Law on above mentioned funds.
During negotiations, agreements were reached that the banks would bring JLF at
the required level of 3% of investments by the end of 1987, by allocating each
year the net income of the banks to the JLF and, if need be, by calling
contributions from their founders.  The level of 3% would be achieved by
following, at the minimum, the following schedule:
JLF as % of total investment
December 31,       1983      1984     1985      1986      1987
KBP             1.3       1.6       2.0       2.5      .3.0
IBT             0.8       1.1       1.7       2.4       3.0
With respect to the Reserve Fund, it was agreed that KBP and IBT will fulfill
the requirement of the Law until the Fund reaches the required level of 3% of
the banks' total investments.
4.19      Financial Performance.  KBP's net income after taxes (Annex 4)
increased from Din. 1.11 billion ($58.4 million) in 1979 to Din. 1.48 billion
($59.4 million) in 1980.  However, it decreased to Din. 726 million ($20.4
million) in 1981 mainly due to sharp increase in the financial costs of ope-
rations in relation to gross income (54.7% in 1980 and 79.7% in 1981) . The
latter was, in turn, due to greater reliance on borrowings in 1981 from com-
mercial banks which carry higher interest rates than the Federal and regional
funds.  As a result, interest spread decreased from 3.3% in 1980 to 1.1% in
1981.  KBP's administrative expenses as a ratio of average assets were low at
0.4% in 1980 and 0.3% in 1981.  IBT's net income after taxes increased from
Din. 434 million ($22.8 million) in 1979 to Din. 485 million ($19.5 million)
in 1980 and to Din. 577 million ($16.3 million) in 1981.  The interest spread
decreased from 2.1% in 1979 to 1.4% in 1981.  The administrative expenses as a
percentage of average assets were 0.2% in 1980 and 1981 and are low compared
to most other banks in Yugoslavia. In 1981, KBP and IBT distributed Din 195
million ($5.5 million) and Din 324 million ($9.1 million) respectively out of
net income to their members.
4.20     A law effective June 16, 1979 provides that banks can deposit their
foreign currency saving accounts with the National Bank and borrow Dinar equi-
valent for their local lending purposes and, thus, protect themselves against
foreign exchange risk. The National Bank therefore carries the risk for the
amounts so deposited. A few member basic banks of KBP and IBT did not fully
avail of this facility and carried the foreign exchange risk on their foreign
currency savings accounts on June 30, 1980, when Dinar was devalued by 30%.
As a result they suffered a loss of Din 237 million ($9.5 million) and Din 635
million ($25.5 million) respectively. The concerned banks did not have suffi-
cient income to write off these losses and, therefore, it was decided to amor-
tize tnem over up to 10 years. These losses are reflected in the consolidated
annual accounts of the banks. During negoti4tions, assurances were received
1/ Includes all short- and long-term loans except those made from Federal
Funds.



- 24 -
that, in future, the banks will invariably protect themselves against the
foreign exchange risk in their lending and borrowing operations, including
deposits.  The foreign exchange risk on loans received from the World Bank is
already transferred to sub-borrowers.
4.21     Audit.  SDK's audit for the two banks has made satisiactory progress
in graudually broadening the scope of its work and applying to the extent
possible, generally accepted accounting and auditing standards. The audit
arrangements are considered satisfactory.
4.22      Creditworthiness.  Conventional assessment of creditworthiness is not
appropriate in the Yugoslav-banking system.  The assessment of creditworthi-
ness is based on the same arguments that were advanced for the previous indus-
trial credits, which are as follows;
a)                 loan losses in the past have been minimal;
b)                 although improvements are necessary in the
management of development banking functions of both
banks, they are generally sound in terms of resource
management and project selection;
c)                 the basic member banks and, in turn, their founder
members have unlimited liability for the associated
banks' obligations.
D.  Performance by Banks Under the Previous Industrial Credit Projects
4.23     The Bank has so far provided six industrial credits (IC) to
Yugoslavia for a total of $376 million as shown below:
Table 4: Industrial Credits to Yugoslavia
($ million)
Credit Line       Nos.               Name  of  the  Banks                  Total
KBP        IBT       PBS        SBS
I           1012/3       16.6       6.0        16.0       11.4          50.0
II            1277        16.6        6.0       16.0       11.4          50.0
III            1611        40.0        -          -          -            40.0
IV           1612/4        -         20.0       20.0       20.0          60.0
v           1909/12      50.0       20.0      30.0        10.0         110.0
VI           2132/3        -          -         33.0       33.0          66.0
Total       123.2      52.0       115.0       85.8         376.0
4.24     Commitments and disbursements under IC I and II have been completed.
As regards IC III, KBP had committed almost the entire loan amount within the
original final date of subloan submission (June 30, 1981).  However, disburse-
ments (433.3 million as of April 30, 1983) have been behind schedule mainly
due to late finalization and approval of two large sub-projects in the



- 25 -
"special" category.  Consequently, the Bank has allowed the extension in the
closing date by one year to December 31, 1983.  Under IC III, KBP financed 13
sub-projects for a total investment of $143 million creating 2,900 jobs.  Five
sub-projects received foreign co-financing of $7.7 million.  Two"special"
sub-projects accounted for $73 million in investment, $18.1 million in
sub-loans or 45% ot the total line of credit and 765 jobs.  At least $5.0
million out of IC III and IV had to be used by each bank to finance labor
intensive projects, defined as those creating jobs at a maximum cost of
$23,000 per job.  KBP committed $5.7 million for such projects providing 770
jobs at an average cost per job of $15,500 in 1981 prices.  The estimated FRR
for sub-projects financed under this credit line ranged from 13.5% to 30% and
ERR from 17.7% to 34.8%. The FRR and ERR are well above the minimum agreed
limit of 11%.
4.25      As regards IC IV, IBT had committed almost the entire loan amount
within the original final date of sub-loan submission (June 30, 1981).
However, because of the exchange rate adjustments of U.S. dollar against major
foreign currencies, a total saving of up to $0.7 million is expected from the
approved sub-loans, which IBT has proposed to use for two new sub-projects.
In response to IBT's request, the last date of commitment was postponed to
March 31, 1983 and the closing date by one year to December 31, 1983. About
$18.5 million have been disbursed from the loan as of April 30, 1983 and the
remaining loan should be utilized by the new closing date. Under IC IV, IBT
financed 13 sub-projects up to December 31, 1982, for a total investment of
about $60 million, creating 1,400 jobs and mooilizing $6.8 million in
co-financing resources. It included 5 labor intensive sub-projects, with
total investment of $23 million, sub-loan amount of $6.7 million (against the
minimum requirement of $5 million) and cost per job of $ 18,200. The
estimated FRR ranged from 15.5% to 46.6X and ERR from 19.2. to 47.5%.  The
average FRR and ERR was well above the cut off rates of 11% each.
4.26      IC V allocated $50.0 million to KBP and $20 million to IBT.  As of
April 30, 1983, KBP committed $36.5 million for 18 sub-projects with a total
investment of $136 million, 4420 jobs, and $30,847 cost per job. FRR and ERR
ranged from 13.4% to 31.9% and 16.2% to 27.2% respectively, all sub-
projects being above the minimum agreed limit of 12%. IBT committed $11.6
million for 8 sub-projects with $28 million in total investment and 3,717
jobs, including 2,970 jobs saved under one sub-project. The average cost per
new job was $22,200.  FRR and ERR ranged from 14.2% to 18.5% and 15.1% to
27.0%. The progress on the commitment under these loans has been slower than
appraisal estimates largely for reasons beyond the banks'control, including
delay in loan effectiveness of about 10 months; new policy on joint ventures,
which delayed mobilization of local funds (primarily for KBP); and changes in
the project pipeline due to changes in the regional investment policy and
financing criteria (IBT). After these initial difficulties, commitments have
been rapid in 1982 and both loans are expected to be fully committed by
September 30, 1983.  Disbursements, which had been correspondingly delayed
($4.0 million for KBP and $0.9 million for IBT as of April 30, 1983), are now
picking up speed and are expected to be completed within the original closing
date.
4.27     A review of sub-projects that nave received assistance from previous
loans to KBP and IBT shows that their results have been largely satisfactory.
A small number of sub-projects nave faced difficulties, mostly due to imple-
mentation delays resulting in cost overruns. Twelve out of 47 sub-projects
financed by KBP and IBT under IC III, IV and V have suffered cost overruns of



- 26 -
between 10% and 15%. Additional funds have been mobilized to finance these
overruns. More recently, some sub-projects in operation have also faced
difficulties because of shortage of foreign exchange for importing raw mate-
rials.  However, the exact magnitude of this problem is difficult to estimate
because of the weaknesses in the information flow from sub-borrowers to the
banks.   Enterprises, with the help of the banks, are making efforts to
arrange the necessary foreign exchange through foreign exchange pooling and
credits from overseas exporters.  Another development in 1982, that has pri-
marily affected sub-projects financed under IC V, is the fact that both KBP
and IBT have mobilized only a small amount of external co-financing resources
(1.5% and 6% of the cost of subprojects financed by KBP and IBT respectively
as against 26% and 38% of Bank financing). This was largely because of the
difficulties in mobilizing new external loans for Yugoslavia in general and
the concerned regions in particular and because of the overall reduction in
the regional investment programs which, in turn, necessitated adjustment of
their investment priorities.  The constraint on co-financing for sub-projects
will continue until the situation regarding the mobilization of external
credits shows significant improvements.
E.  Forecast of thie Banks' Operations and Financial Performance
4.28     Operational and financial projections of KBP and IBT are based on
their medium term plans for 1981-1985 period, and take into account the
revised regional investment plan targets for Kosovo and Montenegro.  Short
term lending operations are projected to grow about 26% p.a. and 25% p.a. for
KBP and IBT respectively; these should reach Din 39.1 billion ($454 million)
and Din 50.7 billion ($589 million) respectively for the two banks in 1985.
The projected long term lending operations of the two banks are summarized
below;
Table 5: Yugoslavia - Summary of Projected Total Long-Term
Lending Operations of KBP and IBT
(Commitments)
1982             1983              1984              1985
Din.   $  7il.   Din.   $ Nil.   Din.   $ Mil.   Din.   $ Nil1.
Bil.   Equiv.   Bil.   Equiv.   Bil.   Equiv.   Bil.   Equiv.
KBP
Total            21.1    403       28.3    439      36.4    479       44.9    522
Industry         13.7    262       18.4    285      23.7    312       29.2    339
IBT
Total            16.4    313       20.8    323       25.6    337      30.3    352
Industry          7.5    143        9.5    147      11.7    154       13.8    160
The commitments are projected on the basis of the planned investment in each
region, the projected allocation of Federal, republic and joint venture funds
for 1981-85 period and the status of preparation of various projects in each
banks' pipeline. KBP's and IBT's long term commitments are expected to in-
crease by about 29% and 23% p.a. respectively during 1982-85.  The share of
industry is expected to be about 65% for KBP and 46% for IBT.



- 27 -
4.29     Resource Requirements.  The total long-term resource requirements of
KBP and IBT on disbursement basis are estimated at Din. 102.9 billion ($1.4
billion) and Din 69.2 billion ($986 millioni) respectively in the 1982-1985
period. The long-term resource mobilization plans of the two banks are accep-
table. During 1982-85, KBP and IBT expect to meet respectively 24/. and 36% of
their requirements from internal cash generation and net loan recoveries, 65%
and 60% from long term borrowings including Federal and regional funds, and
11% and 4% from long-term deposits.
4.30     Financial Projections.   Projected income statements, sources and
applications of funds statements and balance sheets of KBP and IBT are given
in Annexes 5, 6, and 7, respectively. The net income of KBP is projected to
increase at 40% p.a. to Din 2.3 billion ($26.7 million) in 1985.  The adminis-
trative expenses would remain at about 0.3% of average total assets during
1982-1985.  IBT's net income is projected to increase at 42% p.a. to Din 1.7
billion ($20.1 million) in 1985 mainly because of a small base in 1982.  The
administrative expenses would be about 0.4% of average total assets. The
interest spread for KBP and IBT would be about 1.4% and l.b% respectively
between 1982 and 1985.  These spreads would give net incomes, which would be
sufficient to build up the Reserve and Joint Liability Funds of both banks to
levels agreed curing negotiations (para 4.18). The net incomes of KBP and IBT
would remain satisfactory during 1982-1985.
4.31     The projected financial position of KBP and IBT is satisfactory.
Total assets of KBP are projected to increase by 20% p.a. from Din 133.5
billion ($2.1 billion) in 1982 to Din 233.6 billion ($2.3 billion) in 1985.
The long term loans and investments portfolio would increase by 18% p.a. from
Din 84.6 billion ($1.3 billion) in 1982 to Din 139.1 billion ($1.3 billion) in
1985.  The short term borrowings and deposits would increase at a rate of 24%
p.a. to reach Din 70.4 billion ($685 million) in 1985. KBP's debt/equity
ratio, excluding Federal and regional funds, would decrease froia 4.1:1 in 1982
to 3.1:1 in 1985.  IBT's total assets are expected to increase by 19% p.a.
from Din 104.3 billion ($1.7 billion) in 1982 to Din 176.7 billion ($1.7
billion) in 1985.  The long term loan and investments portfolio is projected
to increase by 15% p.a. to Din 88.9 billion ($865 million) in 1985. The short
term borrowings and deposits would increase by 24% p.a. between 1982-1985.
The debt/equity ratio, excluding Federal and regional funds, would decline
from 14.4:1 in 1982 to 10.6:1 in 1985 as the equity base would strengthen
primarily through build up of Reserve and Joint Liability Funds.  IBT's debt
equity ratio is higher than KBP because of its lower dependence on special
funds.  The current ratio of KBP and IBT would remain at about 0.9 and 1.1,
respectively during 1982-1985, which are acceptable.
V. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
5.01     The proposed IC VII addresses the industrial development priorities
for the country in general and the less developed regions of Kosovo and Monte-
negro in particular.  Its main objectives are:
(i)    to help alleviate the unemployment problem of Kosovo and Montenegro
by assisting labor-intensive industries;
(ii)    to support Yugoslavia's more general objective of industrial export
growth by assisting export-oriented industries;



28 -
(iii)   to encourage joint ventures between Kosovo and Montenegro and other
republics and province of Yugoslavia;
(iv)    to help the borrowing banks to increase their future role in the
identification and development of labor-intensive and export-oriented
industries through specific studies;
(v)    to strengtnen the institutional capability of the borrowing banks.
5.02     In addition, like earlier industrial credits, the proposed project
will encourage co-financing in sub-projects to be assisted under the Bank
loan.  However, despite this encouragement, the actual cofinancing will greatly
depend upon the easing of general external borrowing situation of Yugoslavia.
The above objectives are in line with the Federal and regional plans and are
consistent with the Bank's sector objectives and lending strategy for Yugos-
lavia.  The various project elements which aim to meet above objectives are
described below and a project implementation schedule is given in Annex 8.
Labor-Intensive Projects.
5.03       The main beneficiaries of the proposed loans wili be labor inten-
sive projects.  IC V allocated 25% of the loan amounL for labor intensive pro-
jects which were defined as those witn a maximum cost per job of $31,000 equi-
valent.  A more conservative definition based on actual cost per job in six,
relatively more labor-intensive, sectors of Yugoslav industry will now be
used.  Accordingly, eligible labor-intensive projects under IC VII would have
a total capital cost per job not exceeding $25,000 in 1982 prices.
Export-oriented Projects
5.04     Export oriented projects will also be eligible for financing under
the loans; however, their potential is presently limited because of less
advanced industrial development and limited experience in exports in Kosovo
and Montenegro.  In order to ensure the channelling of the loan proceeds to
sub-projects engaging in viable exports based on comparative advantages, the
beneficiary enterprises will be required to export a significant portion of
their production. The definition of export oriented sub-projects would
include:  i) new sub-projects which would export at least 30% of their pro-
duction; and ii) balancing, modernization, and/or expansion sub-projects which
would export at least 40% of their incremental production.  The eligible
export oriented sub-projects would also include those sub-projects whose out-
put is further processed by another project for direct export.  To ensure
their overall positive contribution to the balance of payments of the country
and optimum use of domestic resources including raw materials, labor and
technology, eligible sub-projects would recover their foreign exchange cost
through net foreign exchange earnings within a six year period commencing six
months after their completion.
Joint Ventures
5.05     The establishment of joint ventures between enterprises of the MDR
and LDR is an important objective of the Federal and regional plans (paras.
2.15 and 2.16). Joint ventures are seen as a major mechanism for increasing
transfer of resources, industrial know-how and managerial capability, achie-
ving better industrial integration and coordination among regions, and raising
LDR productivity.  To facilitate the conclusion of joint ventures in the two



- 29 -
regions, at least one third of the proposed IC VII will be earmarked for joint
venture projects which meet the labor intensity and/or export orientation
criteria.  Joint venture projects are defined as projects which include an
investment by one or several enterprises of another or other republics and
provinces of at least 20% of the total project cost and provide for a
technical and management assistance agreement with the investing enter-
prise(s).
5.06     KBP and IBT have done substantial project identification and
development work to build up a pipeline for IC VII.  They have already
received feasibility reports for 32 labor-intensive and 18 export-oriented
projects which are expected to meet the proposed eligibility criteria and
would require a total of about $146 million in total foreign currency
financing and up to $95 million in Bank financing. Also, it is anticipated
that, on the basis of agreements signed and on-going negotiations on specific
projects between Kosovo and Montenegro and other regions, the two banks should
be able to use at least one-third of the loan amounts for joint ventures.
Technical Assistance
Studies
5.07     Kosovo and Montenegro need organized promotional work to explore
potential lines of production for export and labor-intensive industrial acti-
vities, particularly by diversification from existing basic industries to pro-
cessing industries, and to identify priority projects in these areas.  Conse-
quently, the proposed project provides for the preparation of studies by the
borrowing banks for the identification and development of priority sub-
sectors and projects which may be financed under future industrial credits and/
or by the banks' own resources. KBP will undertake studies for the identifi-
cation of labor-intensive and export-oriented sub-sectors and projects in
Kosovo.  IBT will undertake the study of export-oriented sub-sectors and pro-
jects only as a study of labor-intensive industries has been already completed
by the Economic Institute of Montenegro. Although certain Yugoslav institutes
have the general expertise to prepare studies (besides having language
advantage), short-term foreign experts will be needed to assist in the
preparation of export studies and analysis of foreign markets.  The entire
cost of studies is proposed to be financed under the Bank's loans, in view of
the financial constraints expressed by the Government and the two banks.  The
selection of consultants for the preparation of studies will be done following
the Bank's guidelines.
5.08     The terns of reference of the two studies (Annexes 9 and 10) have
been discussed and agreed with the banks during the negotiations. Studies of
export-oriented industries would require about 50 man-months ($3,000/montn 1/)
for about one year costing about $170,000 for each bank.  The study for labor-
intensive industries would require about 40 man-months ($1,800/month 1/) for
about nine months costing about $8u,000.  Tne studies should commence in July
1983 and would complete by June 1984.  The draft reports would be submitted to
the Bank for comments before finalization.
1/  The average man-month cost per export-study is higher because of engaging
short-terin foreign consultants for a total of about 6 man-months.



- 30 -
Institution-Building
5.09     As noted above, the proposed project aims at substantial institution-
building of the two banks. Various measures to be taken in this connection
have been already described in paras 4.01 and 4.03. one of these measures is
the training of two staff members of each bank in the project identification,
appraisal and supervision work at a cost of about $50,000 to be covered under
the proposed IC VII.  In view of foreign exchange constraints, KBP and IBT
will also import essential office equipment estimated to cost about $100,000
and $50,000 respectively.
B. Use of Loan Proceeds
5.10      The proposed two loans totalling $70 million will be used for sub-
project financing except for a small amount of about $670,000 provided for
technical assistance. KBP and IBT will receive $45.0 million and $25.0
million, respectively, out of the total loan amount of IC VII. As mentioned
earlier, the main beneficiary under the loans would be labor-intensive and/or
export-oriented sub-projects and, on the basis of the present pipeline, these
are likely to be for the manufacture of furniture; textiles; readymade
garments; leather, glass, and aluminum products; ceramic tiles; and
engineering goods.
5.11      The sub-loan proceeds wilL be used, together with other sources, to
finance normally the foreign exchange cost of fixed assets and permanent
working capital.  The proposed technical assistance component of $670,000
($400,000 for KBP and $270,000 for IBT) would cover the cost of studies
(para 5.07), staff training, and office equipment (para 5.09).
5.12      The proposed loans would meet about 21% of the total foreign currency
requirements of the banks for financing the industrial sector for mid-1983 to
end 1985 on a commitment basis.  Subject to general improvement in foreign
credit mobilization for Yugoslavia, it is estimated that a further $15-25
million in foreign exchange co-financing will be attracted in conjunction with
Bank financed sub-projects.  The proposed final date of sub-projects suD-
mission under the loans is December 31, 1985 and the closing date is December
31, 1988.
C. Main Features ot the Loan
5.13     Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk:  As discussed in paras.
3.10-3.12, the proposed loans will be onlent by the borrowing banks to sub-
borrowers after adding a minimum spread of 1.25% on the Bank's applicable
interest rate.  The foreign exchange risk on proposed loans will be trans-
ferred to sub-borrowers. As regards long-term loans from banks' own local
currency resources for sub-projects receiving IBRD funds, minimum interest
rate will be increased from 10% (in IC V) to 18%. As agreed under the
Structural Adjustment Loan for Yugoslavia, the above interest rates would be
gradually adjusted over a period of three years, beginning January 1,. 1984, to
make them positive in real terms. The front-end fee will be transferred by
the banks to individual sub-borrowers under the loans.  IBT and KBP will
transfer the interest risk to sub-borrowers by charging a variable interest
rate which will reflect periodic changes in the Bank's interest rate.



- 31 -
5.14     Sub-project and Sub-loan Size:  The maximum size for labor-intensive
sub-projects will be $20 million and the maximum sub-loan amount for such sub-
projects will be $4 million. There will oe no limit on the maximum size of
export-oriented sub-projects (which may need to be fairly large to acfiieve
economies of scale and be competitive internationally) and thelr maximum sub-
loan amount will be g5 million. A review of the banks' pipeline of sub-
projects indicates that, except one, all sub-projects would be within the
maximum limit of $20 million 1/.
5.15     Loan and Sub-loan Maturities;  The proposed loans will be made on the
Bank's normal terms and conditions as applicable to DFC loans, including the
standard commitment charge, with repayment schedules reflecting the composite
repayments of sub-loans.  The repayment period of individual sub-loans will
not exceed 15 years including a maximum grace period of three years. As an
incentive for (i) joint ventures with enterprises in other republics and pro-
vinces; and (ii) co-financing with other foreign exchange resources, the maxi-
mum grace period will be extended up to five years, provided the need for such
a longer grace period can be demonstrated. The $670,000 tecnnical assistance
component will be repayable by the banks over 18 years including three years
of grace.
5.16     Free Limit.  In view of the institutional weaknesses of the borrowing
banks and the need for the Bank's review of a larger number of their sub-
projects, the free limit for individual sub-loans under the proposed loans has
been set at $1.5 million.  The aggregate free limit will be maintained at 60%
of the total loan amount for each bank. However, the first five sub-loans in
the export oriented category will be treated as above the free limit. As
these sub-projects will be of a specialized nature, this will give an
opportunity to the Bank to make an indepth review of all appraisal reports on
the first few sub-projects prepared by the banks and to provide them advice
and guidance at an early stage, if necessary.  It is expected that the above
arrangement would ensure the Bank's review of about 80% of the loan amount and
about 40% of sub-projects.
5.17     Justification of Labor Intensity:  All sub-loan applications either
above or below the free limit will provide, together with breakdown of the
estimated total project cost, the detailed breakdown by category of the new/
additional labor to be employed.
5.18     Justification of Exports:  All sub-loan applications whether above or
below the free limit will provide sufficient justification for the foreign
exchange earning capability and export market viability of the proposed export
oriented sub-projects.  This would include, inter alia, the following infor-
mation:
(i) Detailed calculations of net foreign excuange earnings annually for a
period of six years showing breakdown of income and cost in toreign
and local currencies;
1/  IC V had a maximum cost limit of $15 million for regular sub-projects, $20
million for Joint ventures and no limit for labor intensive sub-projects.
It provided for a maximum sub-loan size of $4 million. IC VI has no maxi-
mum cost limit because it will finance largely export-oriented sub-
projects. The maximum sub-loan amount under IC VI is $5 million.



- 32 -
(ii) past export performance in case of balancing, modernization and/or
expansion sub-projects;
(iii)  marketing channels abroad and purchase orders received or contracts
made on long-term basis, if any;
(iv) steps taken by sponsors to secure an export market;
(v) detailed market analysis with statistics of demand, supply, and
imports in target markets;
(vi) justification of price/quality competitiveness of products to be
manufactured by the enterprises; and
(vii) eligibility to the Government's export incentives and decails thereof.
5.19     Monitoring of Project Performance:  The borrowing banks will closely
monitor the project performance of beneficiary enterprises.  For export-
oriented sub-projects, the Bank will be provided, on a six-monthly basis,
information on:  (i) production; (ii) exports; (iii) reasons for shortfalls,
if any, in meeting export targets; and (iv) action being taken/proposed to be
taken by the banks and/or enterprises to improve export performance.  These
semi-annual reports will be provided at least until the sub-project has
recovered its foreign exchange cost. Thereafter, only annual reports will be
provided until the sub-loan is repaid.  For labor intensive sub-projects,
annual supervision reports, after the project has come into operation, will
include an assessment of actual employment situation.
5.20     Remedies:  The sub-loan agreements between the borrowing banks and
their sub-borrowers will provide that enterprises meet the agreed export/
employment targets.  If an enterprise fails to meet the export target in any
given year, the borrowing bank will make an indepth review of the whole situa-
tion and agree with the enterprise on a plan of action to meet the export
target in the future.  If the bank considers that the shortfall in meeting the
export/employment target was due to negligence or insufficient efforts by the
enterprise, the bank will take necessary measures against the enterprise
including one or more of the following:  (i) a penalty interest of up to 4%
per annum, (ii) restrictions on future credits (both long-term and short-term)
to the enterprise, or (iii) call bank of sub-loan or shortening of sub-loan
maturities.  The above measures would be included in the sub-loan agreement.
5.21     Economic and Financial Evaluation:  The borrowing banks will prepare
a satisfactory economic and financial evaluation of sub-projects including the
calculations of ERR and FRR. As provided in IC VI, the minimum ERR of sub-
projects will be 12% and the minimum FRR will be increased in line with long-
term interest rates in Yugoslavia (para 3.10).  Sub-projects should be finan-
cially viable even when financed by loans from specially earmarked funds at
subsidized interest rates. The sub-projects will, therefore, have a minimum
FRR which will be not less than the borrowing banks' interest rates on long
term loans made from their own local currency resources at the time of appro-
val of a sub-project (minimum of 18%).



- 33 -
5.22     Procurement and Disbursements:  The procurement procedures will be
consistent with those provided under previous industrial credits.  ICB proce-
dures will be normally required for contracts estimated to exceed $2 million
equivalent. If ICB is followed, and a Yugoslav supplier wins the bid, the
ex-factory cost of these goods will be eligible for financing with Bank funds;
this situation is expected to arise only in rare instances.  Exceptions for
dispensation from, or modification of ICB for special reasons (e.g. standardi-
zation of equipment) would require justification by the sub-borrower, and
prior approval by the lending institution and the Bank.
5.23     Disbursement of funds by the Bank will be done against evidence of
expenditures with supporting documents.  The estimated disbursement schedule
of the loans is given in Annex 11. This is based on actual disbursement pro-
files of industrial credit projects in Yugoslavia between 1973-1982 with
adjustments for (i) the particular experience with KBP and IBT, and (ii) the
fact that the proposed project, particularly the financing of export-oriented
sub-projects, is of a specialized nature which may result in somewnat slower
loan commitments and disbursements.
5.24     Reporting:  The borrowing banks will submit to the Bank quarterly,
semi-annual, and annual reports, as has been the case under the previous
industrial credits. These reports will include, inter alia, a summary of
operations, progress on the utilization of loan, employment and export per-
formance of assisted enterprises (para 5.19), and annual reports and audits.
Each bank will also submit a report to the Bank upon the completion of the
project.
5.25     Project Benefits and Risks:  Kosovo and Montenegro, two of the less
developed regions of Yugoslavia and beneficiaries under the proposed loans are
facing significant unemployment problems. The situation is more severe in
Kosovo. Besides, these two regions are experiencing major foreign exchange
constraints which is also a serious economic problem of the whole country.
The proposed project will help develop labor-intensive and export-oriented
industries to alleviate above problems and would also have demonstrative
effects on KBP and IBT for implementation of the Plan objectives through
systematic identification and development, methodical appraisal, and effective
supervision of priority projects. The balancing, modernization, and expansion
of industries under the project would result in better utilization of existing
facilities and creation of economies of scale which are a prerequisite for
successful industrial exports. The project will also contribute to improve
the industrial structure in the two regions concerned, and, in Yugoslavia as a
whole, by encouraging/stimulating joint ventures (para 2.16). It would also
contribute to the correction of development disparities among regions in
Yugoslavia.  The proposed loan is estimated to finance about 35 sub-projects
with total investment of about $200 million equivalent. The aggregate net
foreign exchange earnings of thes sub-projects would be about $15-20 million
per annum upon the commencement of their normal commercial operations, assu-
ming that about one-third of the sub-projects would be export-oriented. The
aggregate direct employment creation should be about 10,000 jobs.
5.26     Thie project envisages a comprehensive program for the institution-
building of the two borrowing banks and it should result, inter alia, in more
intensive promotional work by banks, channelling of funds to high priority



- 34 -
industrial projects based on more efficient project appraisal, effective pro-
ject supervision and better management control particularly oil project pro-
cessing and monitoring. The technical assistance component in the project
would help in the identification and development of labor-intensive and export-
oriented projects for the banks' future assistance (beyond IC VII) and the
institution-building through staff training.
5.27     The risks under the proposed project mainly relate to meeting tne
employment/export targets by beneficiary enterprises. These targets may not
be met due to problems in implementation and operations of sub-projects.
However, this risk will be minimized through more effective project appraisal
and supervision by the banks and involvement of the Bank staff in project
review.  Also, the actual exports of sub-projects may fall short of targets
for two main reasons. First, the conditions in export markets may change to
the disadvantage of Yugoslav producers due to development of more economical
substitutes, enhanced competition from other developing countries, or creation
of production capacity within the importing countries.  Second, beneficiary
enterprises may concentrate on the domestic market, which has been generally
more profitable due to protection policies, and make only "spill-over" exports
in line with their past practice. Provisions have been made to minimize these
risks through (i) a careful and indepth evaluation of marketing viability and
prospects of all export oriented sub-project by the borrowing banks and their
subsequent review by the Bank staff betore the sub-project approval even in
free limit cases (para 5.18); (ii) close supervision and monitoring of export
performance of assisted enterprises by borrowing banks and submission of
periodical information to the Bank in this regard (para 5.19); and (iii) exer-
cise of remedies on beneficiary enterprises which tail to meet the export
target due to negligence or insufficient efforts (para 5.20).  It is expected
that the above arrangements, as well as the new policy framework to encourage
exports, would help to keep the risk within acceptable limits.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     The Bank has reached agreement with the Government and the borrowing
banks, viz. KBP and IBT on making two loans totalling $70 million ($45.0
million for KBP and $25.0 million for IBT). The loans will include a
technical assistance component of about $670,000 ($400,000 for KBP and
$270,000 for IBT) for (i) studies to identify and develop labor-intensive and
export-oriented sub-sectors and projects in industry, (ii) training of staff,
and (iii) import of certain office equipment.  Also, agreements and
understandings have been reached with the borrowing banks on the following
main points:
(a)  Definition of labor-intensive sub-projects.  Eligible labor-intensive
sub-projects will have a total capital cost per job not exceeding
$25,000 in 1982 prices (para 5.03).
(b)  Definition of export oriented sub-projects:  (i) Eligible export-
oriented sub-projects will export directly or indirectly at. least 30%
of production, if new, and at least 40% of incremental production if
balancing, modernization, and/or expansion of existing facilities;
and (ii) sub-projects will meet a net foreign exchange earning
criteria (paras 5.04);



- 35 -
(c)  Joint Ventures:  At least one-third of the loan amount for each bank
will be earmarked for joint ventures with other republics/provinces
(para 5.05).
(d)  all sub-loan applications either above or below the free limit will
provide sufficient justification for the labor-intensity/foreign
exchange earnings capability and export market viability of proposed
sub-projects (para 5.17 and 5.18);
(e)  borrowing banks will closely supervise and monitor the employment
impact/export performance of beneficiary enterprises and will report
periodically to the Bank on this aspect (para 5.19);
(f)  borrowing banks will include remedies in sub-loan agreements to be
used if sub-borrowers fail to meet employment/export targets due to
negligence or insufficient efforts (para 5.20);
(g)  borrowing banks will undertake studies with the help of consultants
to identify and develop labor-intensive and export-oriented sub-
sectors and projects (para 5.07);
(h)  the tenrs of reference of the studies, and the timing thereof are
satisfactory and acceptable to the Bank and borrowing banks
(para 5.08);
(i)  borrowing banks will appoint consultants, following the Bank's
guidelines on the use of consultants, furnish draft reports of the
studies to the Bank and finalize these reports and take subsequent
actions keeping in view the BanK's comments, if any (para 5.08);
(j)  interest rate:  (i) the onlending rate of the Bank loan will be at
least 1.25% above the Bank's interest rate and sub-borrowers will
carry the foreign exchange risk, and (ii) domestic resources, other
than specially ear-marked as development funds, lent to sub-projects
receiving IBXD funds will carry a minimum interest rate of 18%, and
these rates would be gradually increased over a period of three years
to make them positive in real terms (para 5.13);
(k)  Loan and sub-loan features will include (i) sub-project size not
exceeding $20 million for labor-intensive sub-projects (para 5.14);
(ii) sub-loan size not exceeding $4 million for labor-intensive
sub-projects and $5 million for export-oriented sub-projects (para
5.14), (iii) final amortization schedule on the basis of aggregate
amortization schedules with a maximum period of 15 years including a
grace period of up to three years for individual sub-loans, except
for joint ventures and sub-projects with foreign co-financing which
will be allowed a grace period of up to five years (para 5.15); (iv)
a free limit of $1.5 million for individual sub-loans and 60% ot the
total loan amount as aggregate free limit (para 5.16); and (v)
sub-projects to have an ERR of not less than 12% and FRR should be
not less than the banks' interest rate on long-term local currency
loans made from their own resources (para 5.21);



- 36 -
(1)  any individual contract for the procurement of imported goods in
excess of $2 million equivalent will be governed by the Bank's ICB
procedures (para 5.22);
(m)  borrowing banks will take measures to protect themselves against the
foreign exchange risk (para 4.20);
(n)  borrowing banks will protect themselves against against interest risk
on proposed Bank loans by relending at a variable rate (para 5.13);
(o)  borrowing banks will take measures for their institutional improve-
ment, including more effective project appraisal and supervision,
strengthening of middle management, staff training, improved proce-
dures, appointment of internal auditors, and introduction of manage-
ment information system (para 4.01 for KBP and para 4.03 tor IBT);
(p)  borrowing banks will increase their Reserve Fund and Joint Liability
Fund to 3% each of their investments (para 4.18);
(q)  the final date for submission of sub-projects to the Bank will be
December 31, 1985 and the closing date will be December 31, 1988; and
(r)  the appointment of a development banking advisor acceptable to the
Bank, wi:Ll be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan to
KBP (para 4.01(i)).
6.02     The proposed project is suitable for two Bank loans totalling $70.0
million on the terms and conditions outlined above.



- 37 -
Annex 1
Page .
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURE OF
THE BORROWING BANKS
A. Structure
1.       Legal Framework.  Each bank has its own Self-Management Agreement
that defines the basic objectives and the nature of operations; and a statute
that describes the organization, the decisionr-making process and the policy
for planned operations. The banks' operations are regulated by the National
Bank of Yugoslavia and various Federal directives; confomity with laws and
regulations is ensured througn supervision by the National Bank and the Social
Accounting Service (SDK).
2.       Ownership.  The banks' shareholders (founders or members) are the
basic banks (7 for KBP and 13 for IBT) which hold share capital (founders'
fund). The basic banks are, :.n turn, owned by organizations of associated
labor from most of the enterprises in the region served by individual banks.
Each member has an unlimited liability for the obligations of its bank.
3.       Assembly and Boards.  The Assembly of a bank is its highest governing
body and is made up of delegates elected by its members. The Assembly
approves the bank's Five-Year Plan, Annual Plan and Business Policy including
interest rates, and elects the executive, managing and credit boards from
among its delegates. It also decides on the distribution in aggregate of the
bank's income to employees and members.
4.       The Executive Board is the executive organ of each bank's assembly
and is responsible for supervising the execution of the MediumrTerm
Development Plan of the bank, implementing the policies approved by the
Assembly, and approving borrowing and lending operations. The Management
Board which comprises seven members in KBP and five in IBT, coordinates the
work between the different organizational units and carries out decisions of
the Assembly and the Executive Board. In KBP, Credit Board (consisting of 14
Assembly members) approves long-term domestic lending and borrowing operations
of up to Din. 50 million each.
5.       Policies and Activities.  The annual business policy of each bank,
approved by the Assembly as an integral part of the bank's plan, is prepared
against the background of the regional development plan, the bank's own medium
range plan and the plans of the basic banks and their members who are also
their borrowers. The business policy covers the mobilization and allocation
of resources, and the budget for the forthcoming year.
6.       The banks do not have formal financial policies concerning their
operations such as exposure limits and maximum debt to equity ratio although
general financial policy guidelines are included in the banks' five-year
plan. Any substantial allocation of funds, to a particular project or
enterprise, has to be in accordance with the regional plan. Debt to equity
ratios are not very meaningful in the Yugoslav context, as large amounts of



- 38 -
Annex 1
Page 2
Federal and Republic/Provincial Funds are available to the banks which, while
treated as debt, have more the character of managed funds and the bank's
members carry unlimited liability.
7.       The banks accept time and saving deposits from enterprises and
citizens (a role assigned to basic banks) and carry out bulk of all
investments realized in each Republic/Province. Foreign transactions are made
exclusively through the associated banks.
B. Management
8.       The chief executive of each bank is the President of the Managing
Board, who is appointed for a four-year term by the bank's Assembly upon
recommendations of a committee comprising of selected members of the
Assembly. The senior managers of both banks are generally university
graduates with many years of experience, often in both banking and industry.
The middle management of KBP needs strengthening.
C. Organization
9.       The two banks have a similar organization.  They are functionally
organized with departments for such activities as resource planning,
investment and administration. The investment activity is sub-divided into
group for industry, agriculture, etc., with a common engineering department
within the Credil Division in case of IBT and a newly created special
institute in-charge of promotion and engineering in case of KBP. The former
branch offices of these banks have been given the status of basic banks under
the Credit and Banking Law of 1978. The member basic banks together with
their offices in different towns carry out main banking functions witn
considerable autonomy.
D. Staff
10.      KBP's total staff increased from 204 in June 1979 to 249 in December
1981 and 288 in November 1982; including 27 senior staff, 5 senior advisors,
96 other professionals and 160 non-professionals.  The professional staff
includes 50 economists/financial analysts, 9 engineers, 6 agronomists, 10
lawyers and 4 interpretors.  The professional staff of the Crediting and
Project Monitoring Department (responsible for all project appraisal and
supervision work) is, however, only 21 which is low. KBP would increase the
staff responsible for project work to 35 by September 1983 which is considered
satisfactory. The staff's professional capabilities need to be improved
through training.
11.      IBT's total staff increased from 173 at the end of 1979 to 195 in
December 1980 and 205 in June 1982; including 6 engineers, 53 economists/
financial analyst, 16 other professionals and 130 supporting staff.. Out of the
professional staff, 6 engineers and 16 economists/financial analysts are
engaged in the industrial project processing.  IBT will increase this staff
by 6 to enhance its project supervision work. Also, IBT has to provide
further training to staff to improve its professional capability.



- 39 -
Annex 1
Page 3
E.  Pcedur2s
12       Appraisai Procedures.  All projects are first examined and approved
by member basic banks and those that exceed their resources, and/or those
involving federal or republic/provincial funds, or foreign exchange, are
forwarded to assciated banks for further detailed appraisal and approval;
these include all projects financed by Bank funds.
13.      The quality of appraisal reports received from the two banks has been
uneven.  The main areas of weaknesses have often been inadequate provision for
cost contingencies, optimistic project implementation schedules,
unsatisfactory market analysis and calculation of ERR without taking into
account border prices for all tradeable project components, inputs and
outputs in every sub-project. The improvement of project appraisal is one of
the impoortant objectives of the institution-building program of the two banks.
14.      Supervision Procedures.  The project supervision of the banks has
been generally of a financial nature and mainly concerned with the debt-
servicing of the borrowers. The banks will gradually introduce a better
organized and more intensive project supervision system covering management,
technical. marketing, and financial aspects, as proposed by the Bank.
Separate divisions responsible for supervision will be set up in the credit
departmenLs.  KBP will appoint 10 professional staff by September 1983.  IBT
will appoint 6 additional staff (economists/financial analysts by July 1983).
This would enable the banks to monitor the implementation and operations of
all projects in their portfolio more closely and to initiate timely remedial
actions in case of potential problems.
15.      Procurement and Disbursement.  Procurement procedures followed by the
two banks are uniform and generally acceptable. Under Yugoslav laws, the
borrower must obtain at least three bids for all equipment and services.
Exceptions to this requirement are allowed in special circumstances; for
example, for Yugoslav contractors for specialized installation work when there
are less than three firms capable of doing the work. Large projects require
international tendering. In determining the most appropriate procurement
procedure for any sub-project, the borrowing banks should consider
international competitive bidding (ICB) and such ICB requirements were for the
first time included in IC III and IV and continued in subsequent industrial
credits.  Similar ICB requirements will have to be met under Industrial
Gredit Vii.
16.      Disbursements are made on the basis of invoices from suppliers and
contractors or similar evidence of deliveries, or on the execution of
contracts, However, in the past the banks' technical staff did not check the
actual list of machinery (for which disbursements were requested) to ensure
its ccysistency with the originally approved machinery and equipment. This
resulted, sometimes, in unauthorized changes by sub-borrowers in project scope
and delays in processing of disbursement requests in the Bank.  The two banks
have now taken measures to remove this flaw in their procedures and all
requests for disbursements are to be first examined by the technical staff.



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Terms of Reference of the Development Banking Advisor to KBP
The advisor will be assigned to the Presidency.  His main functions
and duties comprise the following task:
1.   Project Processing Procedures and Techniques
Introducing to and familiarization and training of all of KBP's
project staff with World Bank project processing techniques and
procedures (whole project cycle), in particular on:
a.   Appraisal Work: - Financial, economic, marketing and managerial
project aspects;
b.   End-Use Supervision/Project Monitoring: - as per outline
provided to KBP by World Bank;
C.  Pre-Screening: - Organizing an appropriate application
pre-screening system and assisting the staff in this work;
d.   Project Processing Workflow: - Rendering advice on making the
flow of work (for the whole project cycle) in KBP more
efficient, effective and expeditious;
e.   Team Work: - Assisting and advising the staff in the further
development of KBP's Team Work approach;
f.   Appraisal Report: - Advising and assisting with development of
appropriate formats of appraisal report for a few main
categories of KBP's typical project categories, as well as in
the technique of preparing succinct but appropriately
comprehensive appraisal reports, with a view to facilitating
their further processing inside and outside KBP;
g.   Organizational Structure and Project Staff; - Rendering advice
to management on appropriate adjustments of organization
structure and staffing patterns and requirements in the Credit
Sector with a view to optimizing its work performance and output;
h.   Filing System: - Advise on the establishment of an appropriate
filing system for the Credit Sector.
2.   Project Processing Guidelines, Handbooks and Forms
a.   Reviewing of project processing guidelines, handbooks and other
official instructions on project work together with related
forms and formats in respect of adequacy and completeness;



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 2
b.   Assisting in their revision and the preparation where lacking,
of instructions and forms.
c.   Assisting in the preparation of an Operationl Manual based on
World Bank procedures and techniques;
3.   KBP's Training Activities
a.   Assist KBP's Training Officer in the development of in-house
training courses and training devices in the field of project
work;
b.   Lecturing on such courses;
c.   Assisting the Training Officer in making optimal use of other
training facilities available within the country and abroad;
d.   Assisting the Training Officer in organizing foreign language
courses, particularly in the English language.
4.   Project Identification and Promotion
a.   General%  - Rendering advice to KBP's management on the
development of action oriented policies and procedures - within
the framework of the Medium-Term Plan - for KBP's proposed
activities in the field of project promotion and project
identification; rendering advice on the development of suitable
organizational facilities and procedures for carrying out such
activities;
b.   Labor Intensive and Export Oriented Industries:  - Rendering
advice to management on orienting KBP's project identification
and promotion work towards labor intensive and export oriented
projects; assisting the staff in its work in these fields;
5.   Management Information System/Operational Activities
Rendering advice to management in devicing, and assisting the staff
in operating a Management Monitoring System for KBP's operational
activities which will suitably aprise management on actions and tasks
completed within the various segments of KBP's operational activities
(from project identification till repayments collected) against
currently updated target schedules, with emphasis placed in this
information on all delays, upcoming problems and other aspects that
would require prompt management action and guidance.
6.   Forward Planning/Operations and Financial Resource Requirements
Rendering advice to management on devicing appropriate procedures and
facilities and assisting the staff in operating a suitable forward
planning system for KBP's operations (whole project cycle) and
related resource requirements.



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 3
7.   Technical Assistance to Investors
a.   Formulation of Project Financing Applications.  - Rendering
advice to management and assisting the staff on matters relating
to KBP's function of providing advice and assistance to
investors on the development of their project proposals and on
the preparation of complete and comprehensive project
applications.
b.   Project Implementation and Operations:  - Advising the staff in
their assistance to investors on these matters.
c.   Training Facilities for Investors.  - Advising, at a later stage
and keeping in mind KBP's staff constraints, on training
facilities for investors on subject matters for which there is a
particular need for improvement in the enterprises and for which
KBP would have particular potential to assist, either alone or
in cooperation with other entities.
8.   Advise on any other matters as requested by KBP's management.



- 43 -
Annex 3
Y.iJOSLAVIA - IN4DUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Belance Sheets as of Years ended 1979-1981 1/
(In millions of dinars)
KBP                                  IBT
197 9      1980       1981           1979       1980       19f81
sash and oie .        .akSs                           1,394      1,691      1,688          1,883      2,336      2,771
De pas  s w- 8h I.i -,rf. bank                        1,111      1,240      1,245            967      1,282      2,154
Shor.-terr o.      '  cu ran  t maturities
cvf 70.>rg~ nd- 5c:.413,632                                  16,608    21,594           14,710     19,534    25,901
Sacurit.s a_d :sccu ~te~ 'bills                       1,173      1,430      2,055          1,U60      1,271       1,765
1.^ .R.tF ts 55over
1       q t        rf -s 4 .-S?                  enTa;:7uri ties  36,310    53,635  75,618  23,723    37,036    51,943
Property fO  e f ?.Teft                                470         620        767            284        361         470
Ocher a S                                            3,155       5,948     10,572          1,U84      4,483      3,342
57,245     81,172   113,539          43,711    66,303    88,346
4,538      7,636      7,883          5,483    11,437    25,652
LI    I T LI'  ".L    NDT  E IL3YED
Demard ao pce pc                                     8,455     11,681      14,255          8,830     12,627     15,666
Savings , sh-.-e.m  deposits up to 1 year            2,988      4,911       5,105          2,285      3,025      4,718
Savirngs m-"       c:eposits over 1 year             6,084      8,373      10,315          3,281      4,289      5,850
           rc.ort-tem  o -'igE 'S -urrent mnaturities  3,033   4,370       9,387-         6,604      8,733      9,703
Loe-rgc.'! --:Cl5'S 12ss current
matur? t- es                                      32,228    45,757    63,900            19,586    32,904    45,434
Oth~er liabL i ti--                                    961       1,240      4,940          1,243      2,534      4,219
ities                        53,749    76,332   107,902           41,829    64,112    85,590
nrnds Enp iove f
J oInt       .       a -  u n d                         801        863        911            413        474         583
Reserve fi                                             489         537        570            402        447        532
Pro3aert'-                   5    r-nf 618                         725        946            425        519        664
s, f   ,   rrin. k:.-agcomnun7ties    5         91         93             95        100         139
:i p rapL3yed                   1,983      2,216       2,520          1,335      1,540      1,918
rrP P!  i-nco -ot collected                      1,513      2,624       3,117            547        651        838
*  tsi .:-- . .i 'i  &  wands employed            57,245    81,172   113,539           43,711    66,303    88,346
4,538      7,636      7,883          5,483    11,437    25,652
Cnt5candiag                   21,300    27,492    21,737            14,036    24,963    35,120
~'  ii'rs- _.'.:-.. e -9h_ew5ere prepared by SDK following, to the extent possible, accounting practices of
we_ t :--"---, w  lidh differ froma Yugoslavian accounting practice.
danuae.tV {



- 44 -
Annex 4
YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Statements of Income and Expenses 1979-1981
(In millions ot dinars)
KIiP                                  IBT
1979       1980       1981            1979       1980       1981
INCOME
Ilterest on loans                                    2,804       3,540      4,042           1,981      2,419      3,245
Interest on bank deposits                               154         71        648             205        434        520
Fees, commissions and ,^harges                           44         41         33              28         50         74
Others                                                  472        118        633             19 3       133        569
Gross Income                                    3,474      3,770       5,356          2,407      3,036       4,408
EXPENSES
Financial
Interest on individual deposits                       394       576         728             248        350        476
Interest on other deposits and borrowings           1,033      1,059      2,959           1,233      1,700      2,327
Debts written off                                       8         12          -               2         70          2
Other                                                 707        417        580             307        204        685
Total financial expenses                        2,142      2,0b4      4,267           1,790      2,324       3,490
Administrative
Salaries and personnel                                135        166        225             122        143        213
Other                                                  70         86        108              50         67        104
Total administrative expenses                     205        280         333            172         210        317
Total expenses                                  2,347      2,316      4,600           1,962      2,534       3,807
Income before statutory obligations                   1,127      1,454        756             445        502        601
Statutory obligations (taxes)                            16         17         30              11         17         24
Net income                                            1,111      1,437        726             434        485        577
APPROPRIATIONS
Property and equipment Eund
Reserve fund
Joint liability fund
Fund for the Bank's Working Communities                  24         28         38              38         47         66
Total Funds Allocat:ed                             24          28         38              38         47         66
Distribution to Members 1/                              214        298        195             155        334        .324
Unappropriated, Income riot Collected                . 873       1,111        493             241        104        187'
1,111      1,437        726             434        484        577
1/ Most of this is allocated to various reserves by Members as shown in balance sheets in Annex 3.
E1E NA/ ID F
January 1983



YUGOSLAVIA - INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
ProJected Income Statements 1982-1985
(In millions of dinars)
KBP                                      IBT
1982     1983       1984      1985       1982       1983       1984       1985
INCOME
Interest                                10,037    12,256    14,980    18,208    10,b3l    13,889    16,834    20,124
Fees and Commission charges                 76        117        168       231         95        1U6        138       173
Other income                               640        834     1,038      1,246        268        349        434        522
Gross Income                       10,755    13,207    16,186    19,685    10,994    14,344    17,406    20,519
EXPENSES
Financial expenses                     9,377    11,322    13,671    16,334        9,878    11,780    14,084    16,667
Administrative and other expenses        440        573        713       85b        410        523        678       750
Statutary obligations (taxes)             94        1-13      137        163         99      1,178     1,408      1,667
Total expenses                      9,911    12,008    14,521    17,353    10,387    13,481    16,17U         19,084
Net income                                 844      1,199     1,665      2,332        607        863      1,236     1,735
AP PROPRIAT IONS
Reserve fund                               222        309       430        582        228        328        468        664
Joint liability fund                       451        674      1,0(8     1,511        297        449        678        975
Other funds                                171        216        227       239         82         86         90         96
EMENA/ IDF                                                                                                                   x
April 1983



YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Statement of Projected Sources and Applications of Funds 1982-85
(in millions of Dinars)
KBP                                          IBT
1982      1983        1984        1985        1982       1983        1984      1985
Sources
Net increase in short-tern resources  8,614    10,652         11,112       11,302      7,988    10,674        11,396    12,416
Net increase in long-term deposits    1,484        1,877       3,157        3,243        485        747        1,152        512
Collection of long-term  loans          6,974      7,796       9,027       10,698      6,166      6,819        7,757      8,984
Long-term borrowings                    10,539    14,167      18,231       22,474      6,788      9,070       11,177     13,134
Other Liabilities                           75      1,468      1,546        2,312      1,072      1,259        1,190      1,090
Internal generation                       844      1,199       1,665        2,332        607        863        1,236      1,735
Total            28,530    37,159      44,738       52,361    23,1()6    29,432        33,908    37,871
Applications
Net increase in short-term assets       7,289      9,387      10,349       11,106      9,109    11,508        12,326    12,818
Long-term loan disbursements            15,798    21,049      27,009       33,264    11,568      14,552       17,865    20,983
Investments                                166       205         222          222        365        456          479        490
Repayment of long-term borrowings        1,604     1,868       2,183        2,594        969      1,514        1,738      2,016
Other applications                      3,673      4,650       4,975        5,175      1,095      1,402        1,500      1,564
Total            28,530    37,159      44,738       52,361    23,106    29,432         33,908    37,871
EMENA/ IDF
April 1983
ON



.
YUGOSLAVIA
Projected Balance Siieets as of Years ending 1982-1985
KBP                                         IBT
1982      1983       1984        1985        1982      1983       1984      1985
Assets
Short-term loans and deposits        33,871    43,258      53,607      64,713    41,700    53,208        65,534    78,352
Long-term loans and investments      84,608    98,066    116,270       139,058    57,710    65,899       76,486    88,975
Other assets                         15,012    19,662      24,637       29,812     4,907      6,309       7,809      9,373
Total                  133,491   160,986    194,514      233,583   104,317   125,416       149,829   176,700
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings and deposits  37,361    48,013       59,125      70,427    38,075    48,749        60,145    72,561  >
Long-term deposits                   11,799    13,676      16,833      20,07b      6,335      7,082       8,234      8,746
Long-term borrowings                 72,835    85,134    101,182       121,062    51,253    58,809       68,248    79,366
Other liabilities                     5,015      6,483      8,029       10,341     5,291      6,550       7,740      8,830
Total           127,010   153,30k    185,169       221,906   100,954   121,19U       144,367   169,503
Equity
Reserve Fund                            792      1,101      1,531        2,113       760      1,088       1,556      2,220
Joint liability fund                  1,362      2,036      3,044        4,555       880      1,329       2,007      2,982
Other funds                           4,327     4,543       4,770        5,009     1,723      1,809       1,899      1,995
6,481     7,680      9,345       11,677      3,363     4,226        5,462     7,197
Total Liabilities and Equity        133,491   160,986    194,514      233,583   104,317   125,416       149,829   176,700
EMENA/IDF
April 1983
-I



YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT VII
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1 9 8 3                                  1 9 8 4                    1985       1986        1987       1988
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10O 11 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12   01 - 12   01 - 12   01 - 12   01 - 12
Implementation of program for strengthening
of middle management of KBP                                x  x  x  x  x  x  X
Effectiveness of recommendations to simplify
and standardize procedures of KBP                                x  x  x  x  x
Appointment of internal auditors by KBP                         x
Increase in project staff of KBP                                             x
Eatablishment of separate project super-
vision Division in KBP                                           x
Appointment of Training Officer in KBP                                           x
Submission by KBP of training program for
approval to Bank                                                                    x
Industry staff training of KBP                                                             x
Strengthening of IBRD unit in IBT                     x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x   x a  x
Establishment of separate project supervision
Division in IBT                                                  x
Appointment of internal auditors by IBT                            x                                                                                                                     $
Improvement of management information system
by IBT                                                           x  x  x
Staff traininig of IBT                                                        x  x  x  x  x  x
Study of export oriented industries.
by KBP and IBT:
Formal agreement of TOR                                 x
Appointment of consultants                                  x  x
Preparation of study                                                  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Submission of draft report to the Bank                                                                 x
Finalization of report                                                                                     x
Study of labor intensive industries by KBP:
Formal agreement on TOR                                 x
Appointment of consultants                                 x  x
Preparation of study                                              x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x
Submission of draft report to the Bank                                                          x
Finalization of report                                                                              x
Appointment of development banking advisor
by KBP                                                                     x
Loan effectiveness                                                           x
Loan commitlsents                                                            x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x    xxxxxx                                                X
Loan disbursentents                                                                              x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x  x    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx    xxxxxx
.



- 49 -
Annex 9
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Terms of Reference for the Study for
Identification of Export-oriented Sub-sectors and Projects
Under the proposed Seventh Industrial Credit Project of the World
Bank, a study will be undertaken in each of the two concerned regions (Kosovo
and MHontenegro) to explore the potential for the development of export
oriented industries.
The study would consist oft
a.   making a survey of the region's existing industries and available raw
materials;
b)   asssessing the potential demand abroad, in Western countries and
developing countries for products based on the region's raw
materials, taking into account Yugoslavia's experience and
comparative advantages in industrial exports, and characteristics and
particular skills of the region's labor force;
c)   based on the foregoing analysis identifying new industrial products
or lines of production presenting advantages of export in each region;
d)   analyzing other factors such as location, availability of
infrastructure and energy, transportation constraints, etc.;
e)   identifying, and proposing solutions for the removal of obstacles to
the development of the region's industrial exports in the areas of
promotion, trading, financing, incentives and adminstrative
procedures;
f)   identifying a pipeline of specific export oriented projects and
making pre-feasibility studies of these projects; and
g)   identifying potential promoters in Yugoslavia through joint ventures,
sub-contracting opportunities with exporters of the more developed
regions and possible foreign partners to implement projects and
provide markets, through investment corporations in the Western
countries.
The study will be undertaken by consultants on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank. The study would require about 50 man months (four to
five experts, engineers and economists) for about one year. The consultants
would be assisted by the Chamber of Economy and the Community of Interest for
foreign economic relations as appropriate. Existing studies in the same area
would be made available to the consultants and used as much as possible.
Foreign consultants would be needed for limited assistance, particularly in
foreign market analysis and identification of foreign partners.



- 50 -
Annex 9
Page 2
The selection of the consultants shall be made in accordance with the
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execution
Agency". The draft and final report of the study, including feasibility
studies of individual projects, will be communicated to the Bank, which would
monitor progress in, and advise on he study during its preparation.
The consultants will be selected two months after negotiations of the
Seventh Industrial Credit and the final report of the study would be
communicated to the Bank by June 1984.



- 51 -
Annex 10
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Terms of Reference of Study for the
Identification of Labor-Intensive Sub-sectors and Projects
Under the Seventh Industrial Credit Project of the World Bank a study
will be undertaken in Kosovo to identify and develop labor intensive projects
in industry.
The study would consist of.
a.   Analysing the availability in Kosovo of the necessary qualified
manpower (managerial and skilled labor) for the development of
labor-intensive processing industries.
b.   Analysing the raw-materials available in Kosovo or Yugoslavia that
could be used for the type of industries to be promoted.
c.   Identifying and analysing obstacles and bottlenecks hindering the
development of both manpower and raw material resources in Kosovo,
together wth measures to be developed and to be undertaken to the
removal of such obstacles and bottlenecks.
d.   Identifying and making proposals for the removal of any other
obstacles and bottlenecks standing in the way of the development of
labor intensive in physical, administrative, financial, legal or
other respects.
e.   Designing incentives to encourage the development of labor intensive
industries in the areas of taxation, finance, administrative and
legal framework, manpower training and management.
f.   Analysing the markets inside and outside of Yugoslavia on which
labor-intensive industries based in Kosovo would have comparative
advantages and potential, including possibilities for;
-    existing lacks or vacuums in the Yugoslav economy for goods and
services.
-    sub-contracting with large industrial enterprises in Yugoslavia.
g.   Analysing needs and opportunites for appropriate balancing of the
existing industries in Kosovo and suitable linkages, backward and
forward.
h.   Based on the foregoing analysis, identifying opportunities for the
developmet of financially viable and economically justified
labor-intensive industries in Kosovo, using simple technology.



- 52 -
Annex 10
Page 2
i.   Identifying a pipeline of specific labor intensive projects and
making prefeasibility studies of these projects.
j.   Identifying general necessary supporting measures for the labor
intensive industry sector, such as:
-    manpower development schemes, both for managorial and skilled labor
personnel,
-    financing,
-    project preparation and implementation,
-    marketing,
-    technical and management assistance.
k.   Determining criteria of labor-intensive industrial enterprises
qualifying for assistance measures and incentives; this would include
in particular the ceiling for the cost per job.
The Study will be undertaken by independent consultants. It would
require a time frame of about 9 months for its completion and an
input of about 40 manr-months. The team needed for the study may
include two industrial economists, one financial expert, one
mechanical engineer and one marketing expert. All should have
working experience in processing industries.
The se:Lection of the consultants which will prepare the study should
be satisfactory to the Bank. Such selection shall be made in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executive Agency".
The draft and final report of the study, including feasibility
studies of individual projects, will be communicated to the Bank, which would
monitor progress in, and advise on the study during its preparation.
The consultants will be selected two months after negotiations of the
Seventh Industrial Credit and the final report of the study would be
communicated to the Bank by March 1984.



- 53 -
Annex 11
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT VII
Projected Disbursement Schedules
(In US$ millions)
Total
Year            KBP         IBT            Amount          Cumulative
1983 1st Half         0.00       0.00              0.00              0.00
2nd Half         0.12       0.08              0.20             0.20
1984 1st Half         1.30       0.70              2.U0              2.20
2nd Half        4.00        2.30              6.30             8.50
1985 1st Half         7.20       4.00             11.20             19.70
2nd Half        8.50        4.80             13.30            33.00
1986 1st Half         7.10       4.00             11.10             44.10
2nd Half        5.80        3.30              9.10            53.20
1987 1st Half         4.50       2.50              7.00             60.20
2nd Half        3.10        1.80             4.90             65.10
1988 1st Half         1.80        1.00             2.80             67.90
2nd Half         1.58       0.52             2.10             70.00
EME NA/ ID F
May 1983



- 54 -
Annex 12
YUGOSLAVIA
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT VII
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A-1      "Yugoslavia:  Export Performance and Policies", Bank Report
No. 2972-YU, dated October 16, 1980.
A-2      "Raising Productivity in Yugoslavia Industry - Some Issues", Bank
Report No. 3383a-YU dated July 21, 1981.
A-3      "Yugoslavia:  Small Scale Industry and Industrial Policy", Bank
Reporl: No. 3452-YU dated August 28, 1981.
B-1      English Translation of the Five-Year Social Plan of Kosovo
B-2      English Translation of the Five-Year Social Plan of Montenegro
C-1      Export study prepared by KBP
C-2      Export study prepared by IBT
C-3      Appraisal data prepared by KBP
C-4      Appraisal data prepared by IBT
D-1      Miscellaneous working papers for the Industrial Credit VII



IBRD 15675
!A V  ~~~~~~~~~~~S 1 k IUGSLVA.                                                                                            M~1
Ne7                     v       j            : =ni               ,, @1         '\:]Z iT7           ;; i1^rig 4cB                 t],;,ji
i^Tn~~~~~~5  *4.AG   ';:' .    VE Vi tt7ht '  SEBJ'                                      , l;Setab          .+I,fjS l2' t2'';:::'
Ko ro.ncco-       t           F.~8~da~      tAt      Kc l                                  Rrrds
YJMI0AR* 
V < +ineka ovc  i       0 I SA                          -. -Wpf             boAkiedaiR
son                   ~~~~~~~~~Prijedor                    PaIo         )J C                 ra                      CL:0U~D~R
;ifS   :Tuz              la o  ka                                              - 2 5Bro
14   '   Xadar CL\1\ ~~~~~~~~T                   ika                          )<+Valjevo9,   r"V8i_ST
:::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n                                                                                              Pro l io t:j ii:i 9;  i; 2n<i:1+XiaX : / 9    ::   20
.:\;k               G H         AOV  A     Ti      Kroj'';;c
/                        ~~~~~~~~SARAJEVOZo,m
9Kl:3M;ER5[      2$2oL\ k<<W ECHOS OP  AI tfii u) i i  i                 Tiv Q4      T T~               '  R0 Kosvk    t- 0   (i;F+ii ';i
"4 4) RIAXVC~~~~~~~~ S eB  N A
f: S j4,, ; S , ,so9=                                        h. v  . n. o,|N Wsbf. th. .~j o g<a, ,Sp ,:f ,
I PA LV    '~~~~~~'  o~~  t~~UJ.~~~ARIA        "N'iPaz,                                                                j
'w;"r[ A       g;S  lu'K  'CgE-tO2vtl  7i 6*tiJa A-I. ,i~' ;       Iitd  7ito ft itO    >2'   Rk  I      k k X 0             ..v.2      .i            iR  iLc.ut
M61   iit  0       59            -IL230                                                                       ri c B=,C.
lillE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' G<R&GLYU0LAI                                                                                                  Al X  S;ii5!i;ii 99 i_A Xiog X ptrrt  -
:.;:;:'%A7l        .i :4<                     ;        ,<          X         = v '           :'4 e,:E'U'liS             TiStov'''=Velea; 



