Z339-Yo)
OFFICIAL      LOAN NUMBER n
DOCU ENTS
Loan Agreement
(Seventh Industrial Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Dated    (   g                          1983


﻿LOAX NUMBER 4A0B0M
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREFMENT, dated OL}pf4.A1 Sr, 1983, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRI9TINA (hereinafter called
the Borrower), both on its own behalf and on behalf of its Basic
Banks (as this term is hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Section 3.01 (a) of
this Agreement by making a loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
(C) the Bank has entered into an agreement of even date
herewith with Investiciona Banka Titograd-'Udrullena Banka (herein-
after called IBT) %hereunder the Bank has agreed to make a loan
to IBT in an amount equivalent to twenty-five millton dollars
($25,000,000) in order to assist IBT in the financing of a
similar type of Project consisting of various investment projects
(as defined in said agreement) in the Socialist Republic of
Montenegro; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitfons
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and the P.eamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set F rth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following   anings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan, -z so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit
Sub-loan pursiant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.
(b) "Investment Enterprise" means an industrial enterprice
to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan.
(c) "Export-oriented    Investment   Project"    or   "Labor-
Intensive Investment Project" means a specific development pro-
ject, carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the pro-
ceeds of a Sub-loan, and meeting the eligibility criteria set
forth in Parts A.1 or A.2, respectively, of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(d) "Investment Project" means an Export-oriented Invest-
ment Project or a Labor-intensive Investment Project; and "J    >t
Venture Investment Project" means an Investment Project met- .g
the criteria set forth in *Part A.3 of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
(e) "Self-Management Agreement of the DBorrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated January 31, 1978,
as amended to tie date of this Agreement.
(f) "Statutes" means the Statutes of the Borrower dated
July 7, 1978, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(g) "Basic Bank" means any bank which is, or shall become,
a party to the Self-Management A&reement of the Borrower, pur-
suant.to the pertinent provisions thereof.
(h) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower.


﻿-3
(i)  "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Constitution of the Guarantor.
(j) "D1nars" and "Din" means Dinars in the currency of the
Guarantor.
(k) "foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(1) "Unit" means the Sub-Unit established by the Borrower
pursuant to Section 6.01 of the loan agreement dated June 14,.
1976 (Loan No., 1277-YU) between the Bank on the one hand, and
IBT, Privredna Banka Sarajevo-UdruXena Banka, Stopanska Banka
Zdrutena Banka-Skopje and the Borrower on the other hand, and to
be maintained in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Areement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-
five million dollars ($45,000,090).
Section 2.02 (a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan
Account:
(1) up to an aggregate equivalent of forty-four
million four hundred eighty-seven thousand seven
hurdred eighty-one dollars ($44,487,781) or such
other amount as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, for amounts paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, for amounts to be paid) by the
Borrower on account of withdrawals made by an
Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan: (A) to
meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project
in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested; or (B) to meet the ex-
factory cost of items manufactured in Yugoslavia
which shall have been procured in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Part C.1 of Schedule 3


﻿to this Agreement; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a Sub-loan
unless (1) the Sub-loan has been approved by the
Bank, or (2) the Sub-loan is a free-limit Sub-loan
for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from
the Loan Account; and
(ii) up to an aggregate equivalent of four hundred
thousand dollars ($400,000) or such other amount
as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, for expenditures made (or if the Bank shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of the consultants' services, overseas staff
training, and office equipment, referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement.
(b) A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an
Investment Project in an amount to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan which, together with any other amount or
amounts financed or proposed to be financed for the same Invest-
ment Project under Sub-loans financed from the proceeds of the
Loan, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $1,500,000, and which, when added to all other
free-limit Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of $27,000,000, the foregoing amounts being subject to
change from time to time as. determined by the Bank; provided,
however, that Sub-loans made for the first five Export-oriented
Investment Projects shall not be deemed free-limit Sub-loans,
irrespective of the amount of any such Sub-loan.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of (i) expendi-
tures before the date of this Agreement or (ii) expenditures by
an Investment Enterprise in respect of a Sub-loan subject.to the
Bank's approval if such expenditures shall have been made more
than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such Sub-loan the application and informa-
tion required by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, in
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
free-limit Sub-loan the request and information required by
Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
(d) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, at least fifteen million dollars (q15.000,000) out of the


﻿-5-
proceeds of the Loan shall be allocated for the financing of
Joint Venture Investment Projects, in accordance with the.
provisions of this Agreement and Schedule 3 hereto.
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with (i) a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including the
financing plan for the Investment Project, the justification
thereof in terms of the provisions of Part A-5 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement and a description of the expenditures proposed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a description
of the procurement procedures followed or to be followed by the
Investment Enterprise in carrying out the Investment Project;
(iii) the recommendations of the Unit; (iv) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan; and (v) such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
ioan shall contain (i) a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project, including the financing
plan for the Investment Project, the justification thereof in
terms of the provisions of Part A.5 of Schedule 3          o this
Agreement and a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) a description
of the procurement procedures followed or to be followed by the
Investment Enterprise in carrying out the Investment Project;
(iii) the recommendations of t%e Unit; and (iv) the terms and
conditions   of   the   Sub-loan,  including   the   schedule   of
amortization therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented to
the Bank on or before December 31, 1985.
-    Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.


﻿Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee
equivalent to one hundred twelve thousand two hundred nineteen
dollars ($112,219).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
nrincipal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of .Qualified Borrowings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period"   means  the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, incluaino the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)  "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   iaeans:  (A)  outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.


﻿(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.0S. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of Lhe Loaa withdrwh pursuant to Sections 2.02 (a) (i)
and 2.05 hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such
Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank to the
extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to
the aggregate of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-
loans, which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals
from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agree-
ment and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided that
any such amendments to the amortization schedule permitted here-
under shall not authorize repayments of the principal amount of
the Loan beyond the latest repayment date set forth in Column 1
of such Schedule 1.    Repayments due hereunder shall be made on
March I and September 1 in each year. Such amendments of Column 1
of said Schedule 1 shall include amendments to the table of
premiums on prepayments, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, subject to, the
provisions of Part B.2 of Schedule 3. to this Agreement, and,
unless the Bank and the Borrower chall otherwise agree: .(i) shall
not extend beyond 18 years from the date of this Agreement; and
(ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or more
frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of
principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the Bor-
rower tin respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(d) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (ii) hereof in'accor-
dance with the amortization schedule set forth in Column 2 of
Schedule I to this Agreement.


﻿Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a)  If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any  part
thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise dis-
posed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest paymnt date, together wlth the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereq. and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the
maturity or maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.11. The Borrower shall procure the goods and
services required for the carrying out of Section 3.01 (a) (ii)
of this Agreement and to be financed out of the prcceeds of the
Loan in accordance with Part C.2 of Schedule 3 to this AgZeement.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrover
Section 3.01. (a) The purposeti of the Project are: (i) to
assist the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and
resources in the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo as will
contribute to the economic and social development of the country,
by financing of Labor-intensive and Export-oriented Investment
Projects through loans to industrial enterprises as specified in
the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project; and
(ii) to a'ssist the Borrower     in identifying   such  Investment
Projects   and  strengthening   its  institutional   capabilities,
through the provision of consultants' services, overseas staff
training and office equipment.


﻿C-9-
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and competent
staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with the Self-
Management Agreement and Statutes of the Borrower and Statement
of Operations and Policies for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain the Unit, under arrange-
ments  satisfactory   to  the  Bank, with   such  compositlion  and
functions as are set forth in Part D of Schedule 3 to thial Agree-
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,   any  Sub-loan  will  be  made  in
accordance with the provisions ofcthe Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project and on terms whetaby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including, the right of'
the Borrower to:
(i)  require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and
operate the Investment Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with sound tech-
nical, financial and managerial standards and to
maintain adequate records;
(ii)  require that: (A) the goods and services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part
C of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (B) such
goods and services shall be used exclusively in
the carrying out of the Investment Project;
41)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construc-
tion  included  in  the  Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(iv)  require that: (A) the Investment Enterprise shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such


﻿-10-
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound busi-
ness practice; and (B) without any limitation upon
the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the,proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or Installation, any
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise
to replace or repair" such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enter-
prise and to the benefits to be derived from the
Investment Project;
(vi)  suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan
upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to per-
form its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower; and
(vii)  in the case of a Sub-loan for an Export-oriented
Investment Project, to take, as appropriate, any
or all of the-following actions when the Invest-
ment Enterprise fails to meet the export targets
agreed between the Investment Enterprise and the
Borrower for any given year and, in the Borrower's
judgment after rev,.ewing the situation, the export
shortfall can reas ably be attributed to negli-
gence or lack of efforts on the part of the
Investment Enterprise: (A)     impose  an  interest
penalty of up to four per cent (4%) per annum on
the amount of said Sub-loan then outstanding; (B)
impose restrictions on future lending requested
from the Borrower by the Investment Enterprise;
and (C) declare the entire amount of the Sub-
loan due and payable or accelerate the maturity
thereof.
(b) The Iorrower shall exercise its. rights in relation to
each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower, (ii) comply with its


﻿- 11 -
obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Sectinn 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof, the amount of financing
provided by the Borrower, disbursements, repayments, interest and
other charges on such financing, including the Sub-loan therefor)
and, within 45 days of the close of each quarter of a year,
furnish to the Bank reports thereon in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borr)wer shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects, the Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to
be derived from the foregoing.
(b) Within six months following the last withdrawal from
the Loan Account, the Borrower shLlall prepare and furnish to the
Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by the Borrower and the
Bank of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall charge an annual rate of interest of at least
eighteen per cent (18%) per annum on its domestic resources made
available to Investment Enterprises for Investment Projects
(other than those resources made available by the Federal Fund
for Accelerating the Development of the Less Developed Regions).
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) carry out, in
accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Bank, studies
to identify and develop Labor-intensive and Export-oriented.
Investment Projects, to be completed by March 31, 1984 and
June 30,, 1984, respectively, or such later dates as the Bank may
agree; (ii) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required therefor; and (iii) furnish
to the Bank, promptly upon completion, draft and final reports
prepared thereunder.


﻿- 12 -
(b) In order to assist in carrying out the studies referred
to under paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such
consultants to be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a) (i) supervise and monitor the actual export performance
of Export-oriented Investment Projects; and (ii) furnish to the
Bank every six months, until the accumulated net foreign exchange
earnings of the Investment Project have reached the level
required under Part A.1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and
annually thereafter, a report on said export performance, includ-
ing (A) information on production and exports, and (B) a state-
ment of the reasons for shortfalls, if any, in meeting export
targets agreed between the Borrower and the Investment Enterprise
and any actions taken or proposed to be taken by the Borrower or
the Investment Enterprise to improve export performance where
such a shortfall exists; and
(b)  furnish to the Bank annually after each Labor-intensive
Investment Project has begun pperations, a supervision report on
the operation of such Investment Project, including an assessment
of the actual employment situation thereunder.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all necessary measures to ensure that all complementary financing
shall be available to any Investment Enterprise as and when
required to enable the Investment Enterprise to carry out its
Investment Project in a timely manner.
Section 3.09. In order to strengthen its institutional
capability, the Borrower shall carry out the program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including its cost and


﻿- 13 -
the benefits to be derived from it) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
b'y the  Social Accounting    Service or   another  competent and
experienced independent auditing organization acceptable to the
Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (ii) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets or on any
assets of the Basic Banks as security for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or of any of its Basic Banks as security for any
debt, such lien will equally And ratably secure the payment of
the. principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and
that in the creation of any such lien express provision will be
made to that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any
statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or
of any of its Basic Banks as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided, however,
that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply
to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase
thereof, solely as security for the payment of the purchase price
of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the


﻿- 14 -
Borrower which, in the judgment of the Bank, would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satis-
factory to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself
against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of
exchange between the currencies (including Dinars) used in its
lending and borrowing operations.
Section 4.06. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through
their representatives with regard to the administration, opera-.
tions and financial condition of the Borrower and its Basic Banks
and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as   the   Bank   shall    reasonably   request   concerning   the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Bor-
rower and its Basic Banks.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Sections 3.03
and 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Ger-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable; and
(b) a change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or Statutes of the Borrower which would materially and
adversely affect the operations or the financial condition of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project,
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional event is specified, pur-
suant tc paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that any of the events
specified in paragraph (a) of (b) of Section 5.01 shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions,  namely,   that  the  Borrower   has  appointed   the
development banking advisor referred to in Part A.1 (a) of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date of /i2            d   cff(is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 1 04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
iscellaneous
Section 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
Marsala Tita 4
38000 Pristina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                    Telex:
BANKKOS                         18149 YU BANKOS
Pristina
Yugoslavia


﻿- 16 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this.
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
I
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Column Column    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due         1*      2      (expressed in dollars)**
March 1, 1987          720000  14,000              86,000
September 1, 1987     292,000 14,000              306,000
March 1, 1988         530,000  14,000             544,000
September 1, 1988     734,000 14,000              748,000
March 1, 1989.        846,000  14,000.            860,000
September 1, 1989     996,000  14,000           1,010,000
March 1, 1990       1,060,000  14,000           1,074,000
September 1, 1990   1,140,000  14,000        . 1,154,000
March 1, 1991       1,207,000  14,000           1,221,000
September 1, 1991   1,291,000  14,000           1,305,000
March 1, 1992  .    1,370,000 14,000            1,384,000
September 1, 1992   1,459,000  14,000           1,473,000
March 1, 1993       1,543,000  14,000           1,557,000
Septemer 1, 1993   1,633,000  14,000           1,647,000
March 1, 1994       1,736,000  14,000           1,750,000
September 1, 1994   1,846,000  14,000           1,860,000
March 1, 1995       1,961,000 14,000            1,975,000
September 1, 1995   2,062,000  14,000           2,076,000
March 1, 1996       2,172,000  14,000           2,186,000
September 1, 1996   2,295,000 14,000            2,309,000
March 1, 1997       2,444,000  14,000           2,458,000
September 1, 1997   2,631,000  14,000           2,645,000
March 1, 1998       2,842,000 14,000            2,856,000
September 1, 1998   3,087,000  14,000           3,101,000
March 1, 1999       2,983,000  14,000           2,997,000
September 1, 1999   2;174,000  14,000           2,188,000
March 1, 2000       1,287,000  14,000           1,301,000
September 1, 2000     512,000  14,000             526,000
March 1, 2001         250,000   8,000             258,000
September 1, 2001     145,000     -               145,000
44,600,000 400,000          45,000,000
*    This part of    the Amortization   Schedule  is  subject to
amendment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a) of
the Loan Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 18 -
Premius on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions or to Section 2.10 (a) of this Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                            Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outotandin,
on the Loan on the da.
of prepayment multiplied
byt
Not more than three years                           0.17
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.33
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                             0.61
not more than eleven
years before maturity
More than eleven years but                          0.78
not more than fourteen
years before maturity
More than fourteen years but                        0.89
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years                             1.00
before maturity


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section
3.04:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in substitution
for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3.04."
(2) The words "or for Investment Projects" are added after
the words "the Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan
for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) by the date speci-
fied in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement no
applications or requests permitted under paragraph (a) or
paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the
Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Dati
an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, or (d) the Bank shall have received notice from the
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of
the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the
right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan.       Upon the
giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
cancelled."


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Statement of Operations and Policies
for the Project
A.   Eligibility Criteria for Investment Projectc
Only Investment Projects which meet the following criteria
for  Export-oriented   Investment   Projects  or   Labor-intensive
Investment Projects shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
1.   (a) Export-oriented    Investment  Projects   shall   be
either:
(i)  for the construction of new facilities, from
which at least thirty per cent (30%) of pro-
duction is projected to be exported; or
(ii)  for   the  balancing,   modernization   and/or
expansion of existing facilities, from which
at least forty per cent (40%) of the addi-
tional production is projected to be ex-
ported;
provided, however, that the total net foreign exchange
earnings of the Investment Project, as hereinafter
defined, are projec' I to equal the foreign capital
cost of the Investment Project within six and one-half
(6-1/2) years after the completion of the Investment
Project.
(b) Export-oriented Investment Projects shall include
those which otherwise meet the requirements of (a) and
produce  products   which  are   further  processed   or
assembled for export through not more than one
industrial facility other that the Investment Project,
provikJ that such products are a clearly identifiable
compcnent of the finally-exported products.
(c) For the purposes of the foregoing, "net foreign
exchanFe earnings" means export earnings, minus the
cost of imported inputs and interest payments on
foreign currency loans.


﻿-21-
2.   Labor-intensive Investment Projects are those for which
the value of fixed assets (including permanent working capital)
shall, when divided by the number of jobs to be created or to be
maintained as a result of the Investment Project, not exceed the
equivalent of $25,000 in 1982 prices.
3.   Joint Venture Investment Projects mean Export-oriented
Investment Projects or Labor-intensive Investment Projects which:
(a) qualify as joint venture development projects under the Guar-
antor's laws and regulations; (b) in which a Yugoslavia enter-
prise or enterprises located outside Kosovo has invested at
least twenty per cent (20%) of the total cost of the Investment
Project; and (c) for which the investing enterprise(s) and the
Investment Enterprise have entered into a technical and manage-
ment assistance agreement.
4.   Both Export-oriented Investment Projects and Labor-
intensive Investment Projects shall meet the following economic
and financial requirements:
(a) Investmert Projects shall meet adequate criteria
of technical, marketing, economic and financial feasi-
bility and creditworthiness and managerial competence
of the Investment Enterprises;
(b) Investment Projects shall: (i) provide satisfac-
tory financial and economic rates of return in all
instances, on the basis of detailed and realistic esti-
mates of costs and benefits; (ii) have an internal
financial rate of return of not less than the interest
rate charged by the Borrower, at the time it approves
any such Investment Project, on the domestic resources
referred to .in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(iii) have, in addition, an economic rate of return of
not less than 12%; and
(c) the Investment Enterprise shall have a satisfac-
tory financial structure. Normally, its long-term debt-
-to-equity ratio shall not exceed three to one unless,
if higher, the appraisal of the Investment Project
indicates that such ratio shall be reduced below the
above limit within a reasonable period of time.
5.   Applications and requests made pursuant to the provi-
sions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement
shall, inter alia, provide:


﻿- 22 -
(a) for all Export-orien-ed Investment Projects, justifica-
tion for the foreign exchange earning capability and export
market   viability  of   the  proposed   Investment  Project,
including, at a minimum:.
(M)  detailed   calculations  of   annual  net   foreign
exchange earnings for a six-year period, with
income and costs shown in foreign currency and
Dinars;
(ii)  for balancing, modernization and/or expansion of
existing facilities, past export performance;
(iii) marketing channels abroad and, if any, purchase
orders received or contracts made on a long-term
basis;
(iv) steps taken by the Investment Enterprise to secure
an export market;
(v) detailed market analysis, inclLding statistics on
demand, supply and imports in target markets;
(vi)  justification of price and quality competitiveness
of proposed products; and
(vii) details 'on eligibility for the Guarantor's export
incentives; and
(b) for all Labor-intensive Investment Projects, evidence
of labor-intensity, including a breakdown of the estimated
total cost of the Investment Project, and a detailed break-
down by category of the new or additional labor to be
employed.
B.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   The  amount of a    Sub-loan   for any Labor-intensive
Investment Project shall not exceed $4,000,000 equivalent,and the
estimated cost of any such Investment Project shall not exceed
$20,000,000   equivalent.  The  amount   of  a  Sub-loan   for  an
Export-oriented Investment Project shall not exceed $5,000,000
equivalent.


﻿-23-
2.   For the purpose of Section 2.09 (b) of this Agreement,
periods of grace for Sub-loans shall be:
(a)  for Joint Venture Investment Projects, and for
other --nvestment Projects which receive other foreign
currency financing in addition to the Sub-loan, up to a
maximum of five (5) years; and
(b) for all other Investment Projects, up to a maximum
of three (3) years.
3.   Sub-lo Ans shall be made for a maximum term of fifteen
(15) years, consistent with the requirements of Section 2.09 (b)
this Agreement and related to the useful life of the assets
financed under the Sub-loan, or for a shorter term if consistent
with the debt servicing capacity of the Investment Enterprise.
4.   Sub-loans shall be repayable in the same currencies
used for the purpose of repaying to the Bank the corresponding
principal amount of the Loan. The risk of loss from changes in
exchange rates on currencies borrowed and repaid under the Sub-
loan shall be borne by the Investment Enterprise.
5.   Sub-loans shall carry interest at a variable rate equal
to the rate provided in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, plus one
and one-quarter per cent (1-1/4%).
6.   The fee to be paid by the Borrower under Section 2.05
of this Agreement shall be charged to the Investment Enterprises.
C.   Procurement of Goods and Services
1.   Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, contracts for
goods and services to be financed in whole or in part out of the
proceeds of the Loan, estimated      to cost the equivalent of
$2,000,000 or more each, shall be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
(a) For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of
bids for the supply of goods to be procured or. the
basis of international competitive bidding: (i) bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f.


﻿-24-
(port of entry) price for the imported goods, or the
ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levicd in connection with the importation,
or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection
with the sale o delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the
goods shall not be taken into account in the evaluation
of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the p.'ace of their use or installation shall
-be included.
(b) In the procuremen% of goods on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in paragraph
1 hereof, goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with,. and
subject to, the following provisions:
(i) All bidding documents for the procurement of
goods shall clearly indicate any preference
which   will  be   granted,  the   information
required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following
methods and stages. that will be followed in
the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(ii) After evaluation, responsive bids will be
classified In one of the following three
groups:
(A) Group A: bids offering goods manufac-
tured in Yugoslavia if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of
the Borrower and the Bank that. rhe manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods.
(B) GrouB: all other domestic bids.
(C) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(iii)  In order to determine the lowest evaluated
bid of each group, all 'evaluated bids in each


﻿-25 -
group shall first be compared among them-
selves, without taking into account customs
duties and   other   import  taxes  levied  in
connection with the importation, and sales
and similar taxes levied in connection with
the sale or delivery, pursuant to the bids,
of the goods. Such lowest evaluated bids
shall then be compared with each other, and
if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B 9s the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award.
(iv)  If, as a result of the comparison under sub-
paragraph (iii) above, the lowest bid is a
bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated
bid from group A after adding to the
evaluated bid price of the imported goods
offered in each group C bid, for the purpose
of this further comparison only, an amount
equal to: (A) the amount of customs duties
and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importa-
tion of the goods offered in such group C
bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes
exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid
in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the
bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under sub-paragraph (iii) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
2.   Contracts for goods and services to be financed in whole or
in part out of the proceeds of the Loan, estima!:ed to cost less
than the equivalent of $2,000,000 each, shall be procured through
appro:.riate commercial channels, at a reasonable price, account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of
delivery and efficiency and reliabilit, of the goods, and avail-
ability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and,
in the case of services, of their quality and the competence of
the parties rendering them, due consideration being given to the
desirability to apply international competitive bidding proce-
dures.


﻿-26-
3.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to: (i) all contracts for goods and
services to be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds
of the Loan, estimated to cost the equivalent of $5,000,000
or more each; and (ii) whenever the Bank shall reasonably so
request, such other contracts also to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding as described in paragraph 1
hereof:
(A)  Before  bids   are  invited,  the  Borrower   shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of
the invitations to bid.and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications
in the said documents or procedures as the Bank
shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(B) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the
award is made, inform the Bank of the name of the.
bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluat-
ion and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determi-
nation.
(C) The terms and conditions of the contract shall
not, without the Bank's concurrence, materially
differ from those on which bids were asked or
prequalification was invited.
(D) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its execution
and prior to the submission to the Bank of the


﻿-27-
first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to all contracts for goods and services to
be financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
estimated to cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more but less
than $5,000,000 each, and which are to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding as described in paragraph 1
hereof:
(i) After bids have been received and evaluated,
the Borrower shall, before a final decision
on the award is made, inform the Bank of the
name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the
Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received and such
other information as the lank shall reason-
ably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(ii) The   terms and conditions of     the contract
shall not, without the Bank's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids
were asked or prequalificatIon was invited.
(iii) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be
furnished to the Bank promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the
Bank of the first application for withdrawal-
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract.
D.   The Unit
1.   Composition
The Unit shall consist of at least three' members appointed
by the Borrower within its staff and acceptable to the Bank, one
of these members being designated by the Borrower as head of the
Unit. The Borrower shall also provide appropriate supporting
staff in adequate numbers for the Unit.


﻿-.28-
2.   Functions
The Unit shall:
(a) coordinate the preparation of appropriate reports
concerning the information referred to in Sections 3.04 and 4.06
of this Agreement and forwar. to the Bank such reports, in such
detail as the Bank shall request, and all such other information
.   as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request;
(b) in consultation with the Bank, propose to the Borrower
appropriate time schedules and procedures for supervision and
evaluation of Investment Projects and shall assist the Borrower
in carrying out such supervision and evaluation;
(c) maintain on behalf of the Borrower close relations with
the Bank and assist the Bank's representatives in any inspection
of Investment Projects financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and in exchange of views with the Borrower on matters relating to
the Loan and the Project;
(d) review each proposed Investment Project and related
application or request for authorization -o withdraw for a Sub-
loan on the basis of a detailed appraisal of the Investment
Project prepared by the Borrower, in accordance with the State-
ment of Operations and Policies for the Project;
(e) after its revinw, make recommendations to the Borrower
on each Investment Project and related Sub-loan as to its con-
formity to rhe Statement of Operations and Policies for the
Project and .uggest any modifications required to achieve such
conformity;
(f)  assist the Borrower in establishing and maintaining
appropriate records as provided for in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement, in such detail as the Bank shall request; and
(g) prepare the reports referred to in Sections 3.03 and
3.04 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-29-
SC2EDULE 4
Institutional Development 'rogram
Except as the Borrower and the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall undertake the following actions in order to
strengthen its institutional capabilities, in accordance with
timing acceptable to the Bank:
A.   Staff Development and Training
1.      Employ: (a) a development banking      advisor with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank to advise on strengthening of management, improvement of
loan application, processing, and disbursement procedures, and
increasing the Borrower's development orientation; and
(b) a full-time, qualified and experienced development
banking officer to act as counterpart to the development banking
advisor in carrying out the responsibilities in (a) above.
2.   Cont.nue to employ a Senior Advisor on World Bank
matters to coordinate the Borrower's relations with the Bank and
operations under the Loan and other loans made by the Bank,
including coordination of the Unit's work.
3.   Employ a full-time qualified and experienced training
officer acceptable to the Bank, by October 31, 1983 to prepare a
comprehensive training program for staff of the Borrower and the
Basic Banks, and revise the program as necessary.
4.   Furn.sh this initial training program to the Bank for
comment by December 31, 1983, and, after reaching agreement with
the Bank on said program, implement the program as agreed.
5.   Provide  overseas   training  for  two   staff  members
involved in work on industrial projects in project promotion,
appraisal and supervision, all as agreed ith the Fank.
B.   Development of Operational Capability
1.   Implement a program, as agreed with the Bank, for the
impr.vement -f the efficiency of the Borrower's middle-level
management, thrcugh such measures as tLhe introduction of a
management information system and work. incentives, the increased


﻿- 30 -
delegation of authority, the appointment of deputies for key
managers, and the employment of additional support staff.
2.   Employ two internal auditors, with tasks and duties
defined by the Social Accounting Service and acceptable to the
a                     Bank.
3.   Prepare and furnish to the Bank an analysis of existing
procedures for project processing, loan approval, and disburse-
ments, and recommendations of specific stips to be taken to
simplify and standardize those procedures. After reaching agree-.
ment with the Bank on the specific steps and Liming proposed,
implement the recoomendations as agreed.
4.   Implement a program, as agreed with the Bank, for the
improvement of the efficiency of project supervision, including
periodic reporting by Investment Enterprises, planned visits by
the Borrower's staff to project sites, and use of standard
reporting formats. To this end, establish and maintain a supcr-
vision department, with competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVF1OPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certily that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstructioa and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of 0        98   .
FOR SECRETARY


